 TW EN TY - FOU R TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1973 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I N T E R N A T I O N AL MON E TARY FUND TW E N T Y - F O U R TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1973 Washington, D. C. 1 5 2 4 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 25, 1973 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Twenty-Fourth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ PIERRE-PAUL SCHWEITZER Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page PART I in Restrictive I. Introduction II. Main Developments Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions . . .. Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments Restrictions on Current Invisibles. . Multiple Currency Practices and Fluc- tuating Exchange Rates Import Deposits, Import Surcharges, and Measures to Stimulate Ex- ports Advance Import Deposits Import Surcharges Export Incentives and Export Taxes Bilateral Payments Arrangements. . .. Measures Affecting Capital Gold III. Regional Arrangements Appendix 1 4 4 4 5 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 14 14 19 PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys . . .. 23 Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria . Argentina Australia Austria Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada Central African Republic Chad Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo, People's Republic of the 27 30 35 40 45 51 52 56 59 66 68 70 81 83 86 90 92 96 100 110 115 124 vu Costa Rica Cyprus Dahomey Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Guatemala Guinea Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Khmer Republic Korea Kuwait Laos Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Republic Malagasy Republic Malawi Malaysia Page 129 133 136 140 146 149 154 160 163 165 167 170 174 186 190 192 200 206 211 214 216 219 221 222 224 227 235 239 243 246 251 256 264 267 272 280 283 287 292 296 298 301 302 304 305 308 313 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia South Africa CONTENTS Page 320 323 326 331 334 337 341 344 350 353 358 360 364 368 371 372 377 378 381 386 392 397 399 401 404 405 409 411 415 418 Page Spain 423 Sri Lanka 429 Sudan 435 Surinam 437 Swaziland 440 Sweden 442 Switzerland 447 Syrian Arab Republic 454 Tanzania 458 Thailand 462 Togo 465 Trinidad and Tobago 469 Tunisia 474 Turkey . 479 Uganda 486 United Arab Emirates 490 United Kingdom 491 United States 505 Upper Volta 512 Uruguay 516 Venezuela 523 Viet-Nam 525 Western Samoa 530 Yemen Arab Republic 532 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic o f. 534 Yugoslavia 536 Zaire 544 Zambia 547 Analytical Appendix 552 vui ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction1 After three years of progressive deceleration, world trade recovered in 1972, reflecting a sharp upturn in the rate of growth in the volume of imports into the industrial countries. In 1972, the volume of world trade expanded by 7-8 per cent, compared with 5-6 per cent in 1971. In terms of dollar values, the increase was exceptionally large, about 17 per cent, compared with about 11 per cent in 1971. The 1971-72 change in dollar value, in addition to reflecting the increase in dollar prices associated with the 1971 currency realignment, included a large element of price changes in internationally traded goods. The external trade of the primary producing countries, however, in 1972 continued to be affected by the 1970-71 economic slowdown in the industrial world. The effect was particularly evident for the less developed countries other than the major oil exporters. For this group, the increase in the aggregate volume of exports aver- aged only 4 per cent in 1971 and 1972, and the rise in import volume tapered to only 2 per cent in the latter year, compared with Sl/2 per cent in 1970 and 4 per cent in 1971. In value terms, however, the import expansion from 1971 to 1972 was 10 per cent. It was expected that 1972 would be a year of consolidation and adjustment to the new exchange regime following the Smithsonian Agreement of December 1971 and the subsequent realignment of exchange rates in which the Canadian dollar continued to float. In the event, after a brief period, unrest and uncertainty again entered into world exchange markets. An already high volume of international liquidity was increased by a con- tinuing U. S. balance of payments deficit. How- ever, the unrest in the world's exchange markets did not deter world trade f rom expanding rapidly as demand grew in the industrial countries. Most of the industrial countries had over recent years attained a high degree of import liberaliza- tion, and in 1972 a number of them took further measures to liberalize trade. In addition, several of these countries joined those applying a Gener- alized System of Preferences to manufactured and semimanufactured items originating in developing countries. On the other hand, a substantial num- !The period under review in this Report covers 1972 and the early part of 1973. ber of developing countries, still affected by the slowdown of economic activity in the industrial countries in 1971 and by the rising prices for their imports, while export prices improved only late in 1972, took steps to restrict imports either through trade measures or exchange measures; several also restricted other payments and transfers for cur- rent international transactions. The unrest and uncertainty in world exchange markets were manifested in surges of short-term capital which could not be contained by the meas- ures introduced in 1971 to control short-term capital movements and further strengthened in 1972. An unusually large capital flow in June 1972 put heavy pressure on the pound sterling, which had shown signs of weakness earlier in the year, and on June 23 the United Kingdom noti- fied the Fund that for the time being the market rate for the pound sterling would not necessarily be confined within announced limits. Accordingly, the exchange rate for the pound sterling was allowed to float. In response, many of the Over- seas Sterling Area countries also allowed their currencies to float by maintaining their previous exchange rate relationship with sterling.2 Others repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar. Malta unpegged from sterling, indicating that the exchange rate for the Malta pound would be determined at a level between that of sterling and the currencies of the other European countries that are its major trading partners, while the rates would vary with changes in the international exchange markets. The Swiss National Bank on June 23, the day that sterling was floated, sus- pended its intervention in the foreign exchange market. It did not resume its dealings in the exchange market until July 3, after a number of stringent measures had been taken to restrain capital inflows. The exchange rate for the pound sterling soon after it began to float, moved within a relatively 2 These countries included Bangladesh, Barbados, Botswana, Fiji, The Gambia, Guyana, India, Ireland, Jamaica, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, and Trinidad and Tobago. For some of these, such as Sri Lanka, this amounted to a reversal of their 1971 action when they had repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar. Among the countries that had repegged from sterling to the U.S. dollar in 1971 and that continued the new rela- tionship were Australia and New Zealand. i ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS narrow range in relation to other major currencies and unrest in the exchange markets moderated. In 1971 various measures to control destabiliz- ing capital flows had been added to the existing capital controls maintained by members. While the former aimed mainly at preventing or reduc- ing undesirable inflows, the latter, although gradu- ally eased in many countries over the years, continued to be directed to restrict outflows. Although the more recent complex of measures was largely dismantled in a number of industrial- ized countries after the currency realignment in December 1971, reliance on capital controls increased after mid-1972 and intensified sharply in late 1972 and early 1973. Controls were directed largely at two major types of destabiliz- ing capital inflows, those motivated by prevailing interest rate differentials and those induced by speculation regarding exchange rate adjustments. While many of the measures taken were again of an indirect, monetary nature affecting the opera- tions of the domestic banking system, countries increasingly applied indirect controls also to the nonbanking sector, e.g., by affecting the cost of corporate foreign borrowing or the cost to non- residents of maintaining balances in domestic currency. In contrast to 1971, a number of devel- oping countries and more developed primary producing countries, e.g., Australia, Brazil, Indo- nesia, Mexico, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, also took steps against capital inflows. Moreover, direct controls consisting of outright restrictions or prohibitions of certain capital transactions in both the banking and nonbanking sectors were adopted on a large scale after mid-1972. In addi- tion, the dual exchange market continued to be used by some members as an instrument to ward off excessive capital inflows. In some countries, such as Australia and Spain, where outward capital movements were still sub- ject to considerable restrictions, these were relaxed to various extents. In a number of primary producing as well as industrial countries, the control of inward capital movements was motivated not by their immediate balance of payments impact but by concern over the extent of foreign ownership of certain sectors of the economy. At the same time many member countries continued to solicit or stimulate, by fiscal or other measures, inward direct invest- ment and medium-term and long-term borrowing abroad, particularly by the public sector. There was increased floating of new debt issues on 2 both the Euro-bond market and the market for medium-term multicurrency loans, which have become a growing new source of financing, par- ticularly for selected developing countries. In this connection, one of the major developments was the emergence of Japan as an important source of finance in the medium-term and long-term capital markets. With effect from January 22, 1973, Italy intro- duced a dual exchange market to restrict the out- flow of capital. The next day the Swiss National Bank again suspended its intervention in the for- eign exchange market. In the following weeks capital movements put increasing pressure on the capital controls which were adjusted to offset new movements of mobile international capital. After a massive movement in the week beginning Feb- ruary 5, it became evident that the controls were unable to contain these speculative flows without fu r ther actions. The U. S. authorities announced on February 12, 1973 their intention to seek Con- gressional authorization to reduce the par value of the dollar by 10 per cent. Following this action Italy announced that the exchange rate for the lira in the official market would not necessarily be maintained within the announced margins, and thus allowed it to float; it continued the fluctu- ating rate for capital transactions in a second market. Japan at the same time announced that the exchange rate for the yen would not be main- tained within established margins and for the time being would be allowed to float. In the two weeks following these actions, a new realignment of the world's currencies began to emerge. Information received from members indicated that, in terms of the prospective value of the U. S. dollar, the cur- rencies of more than one half of the members appreciated, usually to the full extent of the announced U. S. devaluation percentage, while most of the others remained unchanged. Countries that maintained exchange rates for their cur- rencies within maximum margins of 21A per cent of their parities or central rates included most industrial countries of continental Europe; the pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, the Italian lira, and the Japanese yen continued to float. Contrary to expectations, the monetary unrest remained and capital movements increased. After moderating somewhat in the second half of 1972, late in the period gold prices started to rise again, and they reached new peaks in early 1973. Following a short period of intensive capital movements, most official exchange markets were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION closed in Europe and many others elsewhere on March 2, 1973. After a period of intensive con- sultation between the major trading countries, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Luxem- bourg, and the Netherlands took new measures. On March 12 the Council of Finance Ministers of the European Economic Community (EEC)3 issued a s ta temen t4 recording decisions which included the following: —the maximum margin between the DM, the Dan- ish crown, the florin, the Belgian franc, the Luxem- bourg and the French franc will be maintained at 2 .25%; in the case of Member States operating a two-tier exchange market, this undertaking will only apply to the regulated marke t; —the Central Banks will no longer be obliged to intervene in the fluctuation margins of the United States dollar; —in order to protect the system against disruptive capital movements, the Directive of 21 March 1972 will be more effectively implemented and additional controls will be put into operation as far as is necessary. . . . Germany, in concert with this action, revalued the deutsche mark in terms of special drawing rights (SDKs) by 3 per cent. On March 16, following a Ministerial Meeting of the Group of T e n5 and the European Economic Community, a s ta temen t6 was issued which included, inter alia, the follow- ing: 3. The Ministers and Governors took note of the decisions of the members of the EEC announced on Monday [March 12]. Six members of the EEC and certain other European countries, including Sweden, will maintain two and one quarter per cent margins between their currencies. The cur- rencies of certain countries, such as Italy, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Japan, and Canada remain, for the time being, floating. However, Italy, the United Kingdom, and Ireland have expressed the intention of associating themselves as soon as pos- sible with the decision to ma in ta in EEC exchange rates within margins of two and one quar ter per cent and meanwhile of remaining in consultation with their EEC partners. 4. The M in is te rs and Governors reiterated their determination to ensure jointly an orderly exchange rate system. . . . 5. They agreed in principle that official intervention in exchange marke ts may be use ful at appropriate times to fac i l i ta te the maintenance of orderly con- 3 Member countries of the EEC are Belgium, Den- mark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, and United Kingdom. 4 The fu ll text of the communique is given in the Appendix to Part I of this Report. See page 19. 5 The Group of Ten are countries that participate in the General Arrangements to Borrow, viz., Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Sweden, United Kingdom, and United States. Switzer- land also attended the meeting. 6 The fu ll text of the communique is given in the Appendix to Part I of this Report. See pages 19-20. ditions, keeping in mind also the desirability of encouraging reflows of speculative movements of funds. Each nation stated that it will be prepared to intervene at its initiative in its own market, when necessary and desirable, acting in a flexible manner in the light of market conditions and in close con- sultation with the authorities of the nation whose currency may be bought or sold. . . . 9. Ministers and Governors reaffirmed their attach- ment to the basic principles which have governed international economic relations since the last war —the greatest possible freedom for international trade and investment and the avoidance of com- petitive changes of exchange rates. They stated their determination to continue to use the existing organizations of international economic coopera- tion to maintain these principles for the benefit of all their members. . . . Following the statement, Norway joined the above-mentioned EEC countries and Sweden by announcing that it would participate in the EEC's 21A per cent margin arrangements. At the same time, Belgium, France, the Netherlands, and Sweden announced additional measures designed to prevent undesired capital inflows. The official exchange markets were reopened on March 19. Largely independent of the overall develop- ments in world exchange markets, a number of developments took place involving separate exchange rate actions by individual countries that led to the establishment by them of new par values. In May 1972 Pakistan changed the par value of the Pakistan rupee as part of a major reform of its exchange system, involving a sub- stantial devaluation and unification of the com- plex multiple rate structure maintained since 1959. In October, when South Africa devalued, it ceased to peg its currency to sterling. In the same month, Bolivia, which since 1962 had had a unitary fluctuating rate that, de facto, was pegged, devalued its currency. In December, Australia revalued. Jamaica ended the float of its currency with sterling when it devalued in January 1973. Iceland, which devalued in December 1972, revalued in April 1973. Guatemala, Hong Kong, and Kuwait abolished exchange control. Germany, invoking Article 23 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law, restricted additional types of capital transactions between residents and nonresidents in order to ward off capital inflows. Switzerland also restricted cer- tain transactions that previously did not require approval. In 1972 important developments took place within the Sterling Area and the French Franc Area. In the Sterling Area, when in June the United Kingdom announced that the market rate 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS for the pound sterling would not necessarily be confined within announced limits, exchange con- trol was extended to capital transactions by U. K. residents with residents of the Overseas Sterling Area except Ireland (and, subsequently, Gibraltar) as a precaution against fresh speculative outflows, since the market rates for Sterling Area currencies were in many cases no longer necessarily linked to sterling; a number of the Overseas Sterling Area countries responded by terminating the dif- ferentiation in their exchange control regulations between the Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area territories and countries, while others maintained their prescription of currency and nonresident account systems unchanged for the time being. Also, after the floating of the pound sterling, a number of the Overseas Sterling Area countries repegged f rom sterling to the U. S. dollar, thus adding to the number that had done so following the action by the United States on August 15, 1971. These Sterling Area developments coin- cided with a recasting of Commonwealth com- mercial policy in view of the United Kingdom's accession to the EEC. The United Kingdom, while making its capital controls applicable to the Overseas Sterling Area (except Ireland and G ibra l tar), relaxed restrictions on certain trans- actions involving residents of the enlarged EEC. Since 1958, when external convertibility on cur- rent account was restored, residents of all coun- tries outside the Sterling Area had been in principle treated alike. In the French Franc Area several Operations Account countries 7 indicated they wished to renegotiate their economic co- operation agreements concluded with France upon independence. The Malagasy Republic, Mauri- tania, and the People's Republic of the Congo ter- minated in principle the distinction between Franc Area countries and non-Franc Area countries in their exchange control regulations. Mauritania also indicated its intention to end its membership in the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) 8 and to establish its own central bank 7 Countries whose institutes of issue maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury; they are Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 8 The members are Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 4 and issue its own currency. At the request of some members the charter of the Central Bank of Equatorial African States and Cameroon (BCEAEC)9 was revised. During the period under review five countries— Bangladesh, Bahrain, Qatar, Romania, and the United Arab Emirates —became members of the Fund, raising total membership to 125 countries. Bahra in and Fiji accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, bringing the total to 37 members who have formally accepted these obligations. This Report, and in particular the following sections, centers on exchange restrictions, but it also covers other measures and intergovernmental arrangements that may have direct balance of payments implications, such as import deposits, import surcharges, and measures to stimulate exports. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices 1. Trade and Payments Restrictions a. Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments As mentioned above, world imports expanded rapidly in 1972 with fu r ther progress being made in the elimination of restrictions on imports, espe- cially in the developed countries. In addition, sev- eral of these countries joined with those applying a Generalized System of Preferences to manufac- tured and semimanufactured items originating in developing countries. Generalized tariff prefer- ences for specified imports from the developing countries were introduced on or after January 1, 1972 by Austria, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Coun- ter to this trend were more intensive restrictions on textiles in several industrialized countries. Also, some industrial countries made fu r ther resort to export restraint agreements. Thus agreements were negotiated to limit exports of steel from Japan and the EEC to the United States, and the United Kingdom added an agreement on woven polyester/cotton goods to the one it already had with Hong Kong on cotton textiles. Germany, the United Kingdom, and several other European countries continued to liberalize imports from member countries of the Council 9 The members are Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA or COMECON).10 Japan eliminated quota restric- tions on a number of items, and increased the quotas for commodities remaining on the quanti- tatively restricted list. The United Kingdom liberalized restrictions on some of the few com- modities that remained subject to quantitative restriction when of Dollar Area origin. The United States eased and subsequently removed quota restrictions on meat imports and on sev- eral occasions increased quotas on oil imports. South Africa, by increasing the number of items on the free list and raising the quota value for a number of other items, largely reversed the measures to cur ta il imports taken in 1971. Spain transferred a number of items from the restricted to the free list. Turkey made some progress toward import liberalization, while Yugoslavia took important steps to relax its import regime. Algeria, Colombia, Iran, Morocco, Nigeria, and the Syrian Arab Republic also made some progress toward import liberalization. Bangla- desh, following some rehabilitation of its econ- omy, relaxed slightly its heavily restricted import regime. Tanzania and several other developing countries lifted or eased restrictions on imports from Japan. Many developing countries have in the last two or three years disinvoked Article XXXV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in respect of Japan. A number of developing countries, however, adopted measures to restrict the flow of imports, or, maintained intensified restrictions resorted to in recent years. Among the former were Ghana, Jamaica, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia, and among the latter were Argentina, Chile, Korea, Sri Lanka, and Uruguay. The balance of payments difficulties of these countries arose from the domestic policies followed and/or their export earnings continued to be affected by the 1970-71 economic slowdown in the industrial countries. Furthermore, several developing countries operat- ing multiple currency systems shifted a significant proportion of imports to a more depreciated rate, e.g., Costa Rica and Sri Lanka. Relatively minor intensifications of import restrictions occurred in Barbados, Panama, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Thai- land, and Trinidad and Tobago. These often represented action to protect new domestic pro- duction. 10 Albania, Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and U. S. S. R. Iraq and Yugoslavia have observer status. The trend noted in earlier Reports for state trading to play an increasingly important role in the import trade of developing countries con- tinued. It is difficult to make an assessment in these cases as to whether such arrangements con- stituted merely institutional arrangements to facilitate trade or in cases might have been used to limit the direction or source of imports. Payments arrears with respect to imports were eliminated in Nigeria in March 1972 and in April steps were taken in reducing arrears on invisibles. The Sudan reduced its arrears sub- stantially. On February 7, 1972 Ghana elim- inated its mandatory 180-day import credit regime and for imports contracted thereafter a prompt payments system was instituted. How- ever, as a result of suspension of payments for imports contracted before that date the volume of payments arrears rose. Payments arrears of Egypt increased in 1972; some of these, however, were consolidated in early 1973. Uruguay also increased its arrears in 1972 but late in the year it was announced that a large part of them would be consolidated into medium-term bonds. b. Restrictions on Current Invisibles The major industrial countries have all form- ally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, and do not maintain quantitative restrictions on cur- rent payments or transfers for invisibles. The abolition of the temporary restriction on tourist travel expenditure by France was followed by a number of Operations Account countries which either lifted their corresponding restrictions or substantially increased the exchange allocations for foreign travel. They included Dahomey, Sene- gal, Togo, and Upper Volta. Yugoslavia abolished certain limits on the use of foreign exchange for this purpose, while Greece and Israel also raised exchange allowances for travel abroad. On the other hand, steps to restrict the availa- bility of exchange for foreign travel were taken in Chile, Ghana, Iraq, Jamaica, the Malagasy Republic, and Mauritania. With regard to invisible payments other than for travel, France and several Operations Account coun t r ies, inc lud ing Dahomey and Togo, increased the amount of "minor transfers" that may be made abroad freely without prior author- ization. Similarly, in Pakistan, restrictions were relaxed on payments and transfers for various invisible items. Guatemala, early in 1973, elimi- 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS nated its restrictions on payments for current invisibles and then proceeded to e l im ina te exchange control altogether. Shortly thereafter, El Salvador eased its restrictions on current pay- ments. Permissible remittances for educational support and family maintenance were substanti- ally increased in Israel and the Libyan Arab Republic. Conditions guiding remittances of profits and dividends were relaxed in Rwanda. Restrictions on payments for current invisibles were, however, introduced or intensified in Bu- rundi, Chile, the Dominican Republic, the People's Republic of the Congo, the Syrian Arab Repub- lic, Tanzania, and Zambia. Transfers of profits and dividends were subject to tighter restrictions during the year in Burundi, the Dominican Republic, Tanzania, and Zambia. Several devel- oping countries also introduced or tightened restrictions on the transfer of rents and on salary remittances by nonresident workers. Several countries again changed the regulations governing the import and export of domestic cur- rency by travelers. France relaxed restrictions on exports of franc notes by residents making a day's trip abroad; and Yugoslavia doubled the amount of local currency that could be exported. Dahomey and Mauritania, however, curtailed the permissible export of their local currencies, and Zaire prohibited the import and export of domes- tic currency. 2. Multiple Currency Practices and Fluctuating Exchange Rates Effective May 11, 1972 Pakistan changed the par value of the Pakistan rupee as part of a major reform of its exchange system, involving a substantial devaluation. The reform abolished the export bonus scheme, and in doing so Pakistan unified its exchange rate structure. Bangladesh had taken similar action earlier in the year but in July, a premium payments scheme for personal inward remittances in convertible currencies was introduced for a period of one year. Costa Rica abolished the exchange surcharge in the official market, but the existing regime of multiple rates was extended to cover nontraditional industrial exports and the dual market arrangements were extended to the Central American Common Market countries. Ecuador proceeded to a de facto unification of its dual exchange market. In May 1972 Egypt revised the existing "incen- tive" scheme, primarily affecting receipts from tourism and remittances by Egyptians working 6 abroad and payments for certain imports and private sector invisibles, and the premium sur- charge for the U. S. dollar was raised from 35 per cent to 50^55 per cent. In February 1973 a fur ther increase, to about 58-65 per cent, was introduced, but at the same time the official exchange rate was appreciated in terms of the U. S. dollar. The Khmer Republic introduced in January 1972 a special exchange rate for most imports financed with tied-aid. The preferential rate has subsequently moved in line with the rate in the general exchange market within a spread of 30 per cent of the latter. Laos imposed in May 1972 a 40 per cent tax on certain categories of exchange purchases, including imports for which exchange has not been made available at the official exchange rate. The Sudan undertook an exchange reform in March 1972 under which the par value of LSd 1 = US$2.87 continued to apply only to proceeds from exports of cotton and gum arabic and an effective rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50, achieved by means of exchange taxes and subsidies, was applied to all other foreign exchange transactions. In Sri Lanka, the effective exchange rates under the Certificate Scheme were depreciated and additional imports were shifted f rom the official to the certificate market. Viet- Nam in July 1972 revised its exchange system and established a new exchange rate at VN$425 = US$1 to be applied to all invisible transfers and to all import payments other than those effected under the Commercial Import Program (C IP) and certain U. S. Public Law 480 pro- grams. Imports financed under the latter pro- grams were effected at a more appreciated rate while exports received a higher rate than the newly established rate. By means of exchange taxes and subsidies a number of additional effec- tive exchange rates apply to transactions includ- ing those of the CIP. These rates have since been adjusted f rom time to time. In Chile additional multiple currency practices were introduced. In both the banking and the brokers' markets the number of exchange rates was increased f rom two to three basic rates. In addition, differential exchange taxes continued to apply to sales of exchange for certain specified purposes, resulting in a larger number of effective exchange rates. Indonesia, which applied an exchange tax of 10 per cent to most export proceeds, lowered this tax to 5 per cent for certain exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES There was no significant change in countries operating flexible exchange rate policies. Argen- tina continued to depreciate its peso at irregular intervals. Brazil fixed the contribution quota on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products at 10 per cent; previously, the contribu- tion quota had been 15 per cent on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste and 5 per cent on proceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives. In addition, in January 1973 a new contribution quota of US$200 a ton was intro- duced on proceeds from meat exports in response to rapid increases in domestic meat prices. Other- wise, Brazil continued to depreciate its cur- rency at frequent, irregular intervals reflecting the rate of domestic inflation; following the U. S. announcement in February 1973, however, the cruzeiro was appreciated slightly in terms of the U. S. dollar. Colombia and Uruguay continued to depreciate their currencies in terms of the U. S. dollar in 1972 and early 1973. The Philippines, however, kept its currency closely aligned with the U. S. dollar. Korea gradually depreciated its currency on a daily basis during the first half of 1972 and stabilized the rate f rom August 1972 as part of an overall economic stabilization program announced at that time. Following the Smithsonian realignment and the adoption of the decision on wider margins, a number of countries applied spreads between buy- ing and selling rates which were wider than those provided for in the decision. Also in some cases cross rates between currencies were not main- tained within the announced margins under the wider margin decision. As a result minor multiple currency practices developed in a number of countries. In most cases such practices were eliminated within a short period. France shifted a number of current transac- tions f rom the financial market to the official franc marke t; as a result the principal current payments and receipts that remained in the finan- cial market were those relating to travel expenses, investment income, and workers' remittances. Most of the Operations Account countries took similar action. In January 1973 Italy established a dual exchange market. As in France, capital move- ments were channeled through a financial market with a freely fluctuating rate. Following the announcement in February of the prospective devaluation of the U. S. dollar, however, Italy decided that the rate for the lira in the official market would not be confined within the announced limits. In March, at the time of deci- sion taken by the EEC Council of Finance Min- isters described above, Italy decided to continue this policy. The Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) maintained its dual exchange market. The investment currency market in the United Kingdom also continued in operation. The Netherlands still relies on the O-guilder mechan- ism to prevent net new investment by nonresi- dents in officially listed guilder bonds. A number of developing countries have in re- cent years introduced schemes to promote the repatriation of foreign currency earned by their citizens working abroad. Occasionally these schemes have involved multiple currency practices as a result of the granting of bonuses or premiums or of even special rates. 3. Import Deposits, Import Surcharges, and Measures to Stimulate Exports During the period under review a number of countries reduced their reliance on advance im- port deposits and import surcharges as devices to lessen import demand or to finance government expenditure. a. Advance Import Deposits Several countries, while still maintaining ad- vance import deposit schemes, eased their deposit requirements by narrowing the scope of the sys- tem, lowering the rates applied, or reducing the retention period for deposits. Colombia reduced advance deposit rates for a wide range of goods. The 85-day waiting period for the return of ad- vance import deposits after customs clearance of imported goods was eliminated when these funds were used for the payment of current imports. Advance deposit requirements were, moreover, reduced to a maximum of 10 per cent in early 1973. Ecuador granted exemptions from advance deposit requirements to imports of certain capital goods for use in the agricultural sector and im- ports of nonmonetary gold. In addition, the maxi- mum requirement was reduced from 280 per cent to 130 per cent. Early in 1973 the requirements were terminated. Israel reduced deposit require- ments from 40 per cent to 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports subject to a rate of customs duty of 50 per cent or more. Uganda exempted all spares and raw materials for industry from 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS prior import deposit requirements. In June the prior import deposit scheme was lifted. On the other hand, Chile extended the applica- tion of the prohibitive 10,000 per cent prior import deposit to additional import items. The opening of documentary credits for imports required the prior deposit in escudos within seven (later extended to ten) days of the import registration of an amount equivalent to 130 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the imports. In the case of deposits made in foreign currency, the import deposit was 100 per cent. Rwanda introduced a prior import deposit scheme for a few luxury imports and Viet-Nam established an advance deposit scheme for imports effected on U. S. Agency for International Development funds. The deposit was later reduced and the period short- ened to three months. b. Import Surcharges Denmark reduced the temporary import sur- charge from 10 per cent to 7 per cent in July 1972, further reduced it to 4 per cent in January 1973, and abolished the surcharge in April. Fin- land at the beginning of 1972 abolished the sup- plementary sales tax of 15 per cent that had been levied on certain consumer durables, whether imported or domestically produced. Honduras removed the customs surcharge of 50 per cent or 100 per cent which had been levied on most Japanese imports since 1971. Paraguay reduced by 50 per cent the import surcharge applicable to imports of raw materials and other imports destined for domestic industries. The Sudan reduced the import surcharge of 15 per cent to 5 per cent as part of the exchange reform described above, while Yugoslavia reduced the 6 per cent import surcharge for certain products to 2 per cent. Some countries, however, introduced surcharges on specified imports or raised the applicable rates. Iceland levied an import surcharge of 25 per cent ad valorem on the c.i.f. krona price of motor vehicles and motorcycles, which later was reduced to 15 per cent for specified vehicles. Zambia levied a temporary 5 per cent ad valorem surcharge on all dutiable imports, but later suspended the tariff surcharge on certain commodities. c. Export Incentives and Export Taxes A wide range of export promotion measures involving incentive mechanisms in the tax and banking fields were employed by a number of 8 countries to provide fu r ther stimulus for exports. Brazil established new incentives for firms exporting manufactured goods by allowing them to import duty-free machines, raw materials, and intermediate products. Such firms could apply any payment of the supplementary income tax toward any other tax liability, and were fu r ther entitled to receive exemptions from the manufacturers' excise tax. Indonesia exempted certain exports from the 10 per cent exchange tax and reduced the rate to 5 per cent for others. Peru extended the exemp- tion from all export taxes enjoyed by exporters of nontraditional manufactures to exports of non- traditional primary and semiprocessed agricultural commodities. Furthermore, tax credits were given to exporters to compensate them for duties and taxes paid in the process of extracting and/or producing the commodities concerned. Malaysia reduced the export tax on East Malaysian rubber and the Philippines again reduced the stabilization tax on export proceeds. Sri Lanka introduced new incentives for the promotion of nontraditional exports such as tax holidays of up to eight years on profits, dividends, and income derived from the export trade and full deductibility of research and export promotion expenses. Thailand granted refunds to exporters in the form of tax credit notes on taxes imposed on raw materials and intermedi- ate products to be used in processing goods for export. Tunisia provided additional incentives to export-oriented manufac tur ing industries through exemptions from profit and turnover taxes. Turkey added several items to the list of commodities eligible for a tax rebate which ranged from 5 per cent to 40 per cent depending on the export value and the category of the exported goods. Compa- nies in the United States began to use Domestic International Sales Corporation (DISC) facilities whereby tax deferral privileges are available on 50 per cent of gross export income. In some countries exporters were given cash subsidies and export bonuses to improve the com- petitive position of exports. Afghanistan raised the exchange subsidy for the proceeds from cotton exports received under bilateral payments agree- ments as an incentive to increased production. Ghana announced an export bonus of 20 per cent of value for nontraditional exports. Israel increased by 2 percentage points export incentives paid to exporters retroactive to January 1972. The United States, on the other hand, suspended late in the year the entire system of subsidizing agricultural exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELO PMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Several industrial and more developed primary producing countries provided exchange rate guar- antees to exporters, in the face of the widening exchange rate margins and nonobservance of announced margins, and of increased uncertainties in international exchange markets. These included Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Portugal. There was increased government participation in export financing as evidenced by the introduc- tion of special credit facilities, e.g., Colombia, Ecuador, and Israel; or the expansion of exist- ing ones, e.g., Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, and Turkey; provision of preferential interest rates, e.g., Paraguay and the United Kingdom; and export credit insurance. The variety of the meas- ures taken was considerable; most represented primarily a spread of measures already in large- scale use by both developed and developing coun- tries to stimulate exports. Japan abolished its two remaining preferential export financing schemes—discounting of export bills and advance credit for exports; in addition it eliminated several minor income tax concessions favoring exports. Japan also resorted to "volun- tary" and official restraints on the growth of its exports. The steel manufacturers extended volun- tary controls on exports to the United States a further three years, and the electrical machinery industry imposed voluntary restraints on exports of several items to Western Europe. Official con- trols agreed to by the Japanese and U. S. Govern- ments replaced the voluntary controls on exports of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers. For the period September 1972-August 1973, the Japa- nese Government restricted the growth of 20 lead- ing export items to an annual rate of about 26.5 per cent over the previous 12-month period. Japan also discouraged the early repatriation of export proceeds. Hong Kong added to the exist- ing restraints on the export of cotton textiles to the United Kingdom similar restraints on mixed polyester/cotton textiles to the United Kingdom. 4. Bilateral Payments Arrangements During the year under review further progress was achieved in the elimination of bilateral pay- ments arrangements by member countries. Spain terminated its payments agreements with Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Paraguay, Poland, Romania, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Moreover, Yugoslavia and Iceland eliminated their bilateral payments arrangements with India and Romania, respectively. Although the total number of such agreements between Fund members increased from some 50 at the end of 1971 to about 75 at the end of 1972, this increase reflects primarily the fact that Romania and Bangladesh became members of the Fund in the course of the year; the former is a party to 37 payments agreements, including 24 with Fund members, and Bangladesh negotiated 10 such agreements after becoming independent, 5 of them with Fund members. 5. Measures Affecting Capital In 1971 various measures designed to restrain destabilizing capital flows were superimposed on the existing controls over capital movements maintained by most Fund members. While the new controls aimed mainly at preventing or reducing inflows, the latter, although gradually eased in some countries, continued to be directed against outflows. Although the recent measures to control capi- tal movements were eased somewhat in a number of industrialized countries after the currency realignment in December 1971, reliance on capi- tal controls was intensified very sharply during 1972 and early 1973. As in 1971, such controls were mostly aimed at curbing the undesired accumulation of foreign exchange reserves and at easing the burden of domestic monetary manage- ment caused by an accelerating inflow of exchange. While many of the measures taken were again of an indirect, monetary nature affect- ing the operations of the domestic banking sys- tem, a few countries applied such indirect controls also to the nonbanking sector, e.g., by affecting the cost of corporate foreign borrowing. More- over, direct controls consisting of outright restric- tions or prohibitions of certain capital transactions in both the banking and nonbanking sectors were resorted to on a large scale during the sterling crisis in June 1972 and prior to the announce- ment by the United States at the beginning of 1973 that the U. S. dollar would be devalued. In addition, the dual exchange market continued to be used to ward off capital inflows, and in some countries where outward capital movements were still subject to restrictions, such restrictions were liberalized to stimulate capital outflows. Sepa- rately, in a number of primary producing as well as industrial countries, the control of inward 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS capital movements was motivated by concern over the growth of foreign ownership of certain sectors of the economy. Indirect capital controls applied in the domes- tic banking system have consisted primarily of selective reserve requirements against banks' external liabilities and of restrictions on interest payments on nonresident deposits. In Austria, the gentlemen's agreement of August 1971 between the National Bank and credit institutions was extended on several occasions until mid- 1973; it provided, inter alia, for the sterilization of 75 per cent of the domestic counterpart of foreign exchange inflows after August 13, 1971. In France special average reserve ratios against banks' external franc deposits, after having been removed in December 1971, were reimposed in March 1972. Germany increased the difference between the average reserve ratios for banks' domestic and external liabilities, with higher ratios applied to external liabilities. In addition, the marginal reserve requirement applied on the growth of banks' external liabilities only was raised f rom a rate of 30 per cent to 40 per cent in March 1972 and to 60 per cent in July 1972, thus bringing the total reserve requirement on new external liabilities up to 90-100 per cent (when taking into account the 30-40 per cent reserve requirements on the stock of external liabilities). Japan introduced in June 1972 a reserve requirement of 25 per cent on the growth of deposits in free yen accounts and in July increased this reserve ratio to 50 per cent. In Spain, where a 100 per cent reserve requirement had already applied against increases after Octo- ber 1971 in nonresident convertible peseta deposits at sight and at less than three months' notice, a 50 per cent reserve requirement was introduced against any increases after July 29, 1972 in such deposits with a maturity of three months or more; additional measures were taken in early 1973. Restrictions on the payment of interest on bal- ances in nonresident accounts were intensified in the Netherlands where an outright prohibition of interest payments on all nonresident-held guilder demand deposits was introduced in March 1972, with only a minor exception relating to deposits held by private individuals. Switzerland incorpo- rated the prohibition on the payment of interest on nonresident deposits, previously based on a gentlemen's agreement, into a Federal Ordi- 10 nance in July 1972. Moreover, it also introduced a negative interest rate of 2 per cent a calendar quarter, payable in advance, on all increases in foreign-held bank deposits in Swiss francs accrued after June 30, 1972. In addition, prohibitions on the payment of interest on specified external lia- bilities of banks continued in force in Germany and Spain. Some German banks began to apply negative interest rates when the acceptance of nonresident-owned funds became unprofitable as a result of an increase to 100 per cent in the mar- ginal reserves required against such deposits. Vari- ous measures were taken in Belgium-Luxembourg, France, the Netherlands, and Sweden after the March 12 announcement of the decision taken by the EEC Council of Finance Ministers, which endorsed additional measures to protect against disruptive capital movements; these included nega- tive interest rates and 100 per cent reserve require- ments against new nonresident deposits, the interest charge in France being introduced by the banks themselves rather than the authorities. Indirect capital controls applied in the non- banking sector were aimed primarily at reducing the attractiveness of raising credits abroad. Among such controls the requirement to maintain interest- free deposits against foreign borrowing was the most important. Germany, which enforced a cash deposit requirement in March 1972 with a deposit rate of 40 per cent, increased the rate to 50 per cent in July, the maximum then permissible under the Cash Deposit Law. On February 24, 1973 the Law was amended, empowering the Government to raise the rate of the deposit from 50 per cent to 100 per cent of funds borrowed abroad by resi- dents (primarily nonbanks). This authority has not so far been invoked. The amount exempt from the deposit was reduced in two steps from DM 2 million to DM 50,000. Brazil introduced in October 1972 a 25 per cent interest-free deposit requirement against all new foreign currency loans. In December 1972, Australia introduced a similar requirement on new borrowings from for- eign lenders for periods of more than two years. Yugoslavia in May 1972 introduced interest- free deposit requirements against all new foreign loans and time deposits in foreign currencies held with Yugoslav banks. The deposit rates vary according to the purpose and maturity of the loan (or time deposit), the highest rate of 40 per cent being for time deposits in foreign currencies and financial credits with maturity of less than two years, and the lowest rate of 1 per cent being for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES loans with a maturity of over five years for the financing of the import of capital goods. In December 1972 the deposit rate for all financial loans and new time deposits in foreign currencies was increased to 75 per cent. As in 1971, direct capital controls applied in the domestic banking system have consisted pri- marily of limitations on the acceptance of non- resident deposits by banks and, more generally, on banks' net external positions. In Belgium- Luxembourg banks were instructed in March 1972 not to increase their net foreign liabilities and to make arrangements with their foreign correspond- ents with a view to having these limit their bal- ances in convertible franc accounts, provided that such limitation would be consistent with the needs of the normal development of current transactions. Denmark limited in January 1973 the right of expatriate Danes to make payments from abroad into krone accounts, and imposed ceilings on out- standing balances in other nonresident accounts. At the same time, Denmark also changed the rules governing the net "commercial" foreign posi- tion of authorized foreign exchange dealers. An individual bank's position could not be negative, except that for all banks collectively an overall quota was set up to which they could incur a negative net "commercial" foreign position insofar as this resulted from the taking up of foreign cur- rency loans for purposes of on-lending in for- eign currency to finance Danish foreign trade. In March 1972, the Netherlands prohibited non- residents from placing guilders on time deposits or from renewing such accounts, subject to a minor exemption for private individuals. Switzer- land prohibited banks, between July and October 1972, from maintaining net foreign exchange lia- bility positions. Certain other direct control meas- ures were applied to banks' external transactions aimed at preventing such transactions from giving rise to excessive capital inflows. Japan restricted the conversion of foreign funds into yen by resi- dent foreign banks. In Mexico, private financial institutions have been required, since July 1972, to obtain central bank authorization in order to conduct operations implying a receipt of funds from foreign residents, whether in domestic or foreign currency. In Switzerland banks participat- ing in new issues of medium-term Swiss franc notes by nonresidents had to place, since Febru- ary 1972, at least 60 per cent of such issues with resident customers and were prohibited from sell- ing any of the new notes to nonresident banks. In June 1972 banks and other financial inter- mediaries were prohibited from investing funds belonging to foreigners in domestic securities, for- eign securities denominated in Swiss francs, and Swiss real estate or mortgages on real estate. Controls of a direct or quantitative nature to stem the inflow of capital were particularly wide- spread in regard to the nonbanking sector. The measures were directed, inter alia, at the acquisi- tion by nonresidents of domestic securities, the contracting by residents of financial loans abroad, the terms of payment in respect of merchandise transactions ("leads and lags"), and the participa- tion by nonresidents in domestic companies. Ger- many in June 1972 introduced licensing require- ments for the acquisition by nonresidents, against payment, of domestic bearer and order bonds, and in February 1973 extended these require- ments to all domestic securities. Austria limited the sale to nonresidents of Austrian fixed-interest- bearing securities during the period November 1972 through May 1973 to the amount of pur- chases from nonresidents, plus a specified quota. In Japan measures were adopted in October 1972 to prevent any further increase in the net acquisi- tion of Japanese securities by foreigners. Finally, restrictions were imposed by Austria and Ger- many on certain nonresident investment in, or nonresident financing of, domestic companies, including subsidiaries and affiliates of foreign com- panies. Austria in addition restricted the acquisi- tion of real estate by nonresidents in November 1972, and in Switzerland the investment of for- eign funds in Swiss real estate was prohibited in June. Australia took similar measures in 1973. Countries which applied direct restrictions to residents borrowing abroad included Australia, Austria, Brazil, Germany, the Netherlands, and Switzerland. In Australia, approval was no longer granted, beginning late September 1972, for bor- rowing abroad repayable in two years or less other than borrowings specifically to finance trade trans- actions on normal trade credit terms or borrow- ings not exceeding $A 100,000 in any period of 12 months. In addition, Australia terminated the exemption from exchange controls on borrowing in Australian dollars from Sterling Area residents. In Austria, in connection with the extension of the gentlemen's agreement, credit institutions undertook, in February 1972, to appeal to their customers not to borrow abroad, and in June 1972 an unde r tak ing was given by the Govern- ment to refrain from such borrowing. Moreover, 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in November, all capital transfers to Austria became subject to prior approval of the National Bank. Brazil first limited approvals of new finan- cial loans with a maturity of up to one year to amounts of such loans outstanding at the end of November 1971, but since June 1972 approvals of such loans have been suspended. For loans with a term of more than one year, the mini- mum acceptable ma tu r i ty was raised successively between February and September 1972 from two years to six years. While the above measures ini- tially were aimed at strengthening controls over the management of external debt, subsequently their intent was to ease the burden for domes- tic monetary management caused by inflows of exchange. In Germany, the contracting of foreign loans and credits in excess of DM 50,000 was made subject to the prior approval of the Bundes- bank with effect from February 5, 1973. In the Netherlands, the issue of licenses to residents for the taking up of financial credits abroad was, in principle, suspended in July 1972; the restriction also applied to long-term loans extended to each other by the constituent parts of multinational corporations. Switzerland restricted the raising and renewal of Swiss franc or foreign currency loans abroad by residents through the introduc- tion in July 1972 of a prior approval requirement by the National Bank for such transactions. In Germany and the Netherlands prior approval was required for payment terms relating to imports and exports whenever such terms exceeded nor- mal commercial practices. Japan reimposed a limit, in February 1972, on the conversion into yen of advance payments for Japanese exports and in June reduced this limit to the equivalent of US$5,000. Among the industrialized countries, Belgium- Luxembourg and France continued to use dual exchange markets as a means of stemming capital inflows. Italy introduced such a market primarily to discourage capital outflows. The investment currency market in the United Kingdom continues in operation and has been considerably enlarged as a result of portfolio investment in securities of the Overseas Sterling Area being channeled into it. The Netherlands, as stated above, maintained its O-guilder mechanism, which is applicable only to officially listed guilder bonds. A number of countries, notably Japan, Spain, and France, reduced exchange restrictions or other controls so as to stimulate capital outflows. In Japan, remittances abroad of up to US$1,000 12 were permitted free ly beginning March 1972, and this limit was raised to US$3,000 in November. Japan also fu l ly liberalized the acquisition of for- eign securities by resident individuals, banks, and institutional investors and lifted restrictions on Japanese investment in real estate abroad. Begin- ning in June 1972, Japanese corporations were permitted to make capital investments abroad, irrespective of whether or not this would lead to effective control over the foreign undertaking, and in September government institutions and author- ized foreign exchange banks were permitted to lend foreign currencies to Japanese investors for up to 70 per cent of overseas direct investment; this percentage was raised to 90 in May 1973. Moreover, a number of foreign issues of yen- denominated bonds were permitted and issuers were required to convert 90 per cent of the pro- ceeds into foreign exchange; the remainder could be held in yen for up to one year. Spain liberal- ized certain remaining restrictions on the transfer by nonresidents of proceeds from sales of real estate and Spanish bonds and shares, as well as from the liquidation of direct investment. In France a number of restrictions on certain types of capital transfers abroad were eased in May 1972, including those relating to gifts and the purchase of real estate. Also, subject to certain conditions, the making or liquidation of direct investments abroad by residents was exempted from prior declaration and, where previously applicable, from prior authorization, provided that the amount involved did not exceed F 1 million a year for each beneficiary firm. In March 1972 agreement was reached on the conditions under which French banks could participate in inter- national issues of bonds denominated in French francs. Prior to 1972, only three Euro-franc issues had taken place, and the suspension of further issues had been announced in October 1971. In 1972 Luxembourg authorized a number of Euro- bond issues denominated in Luxembourg francs, and early in 1973 the first issue of such bonds expressed in Belgian francs took place. The Netherlands also liberalized access by nonresidents to its capital market. Beginning April 1972, the Netherlands Bank for the first time granted non- residents access to the market in onderhandse leningen (privately issued debt certificates not traded on the stock exchange) by licensing guilder loans to nonresidents in the form of debt certifi- cates, and more recently it admitted issues by nonresidents of convertible guilder debentures on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELO PMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES the Netherlands market. Australia abolished in September 1972 the guidelines operating since 1965 with respect to borrowing in Australia by foreign-owned companies and eased the prohibi- tion on outward portfolio investment by Aus- tralian residents. The United States, in its announcement in Feb- ruary 1973 regarding the devaluation of the U. S. dollar, also announced the phasing out by the end of 1974 of the existing restraints on outflows of capital: the Interest Equalization Tax, the Federal Reserve Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Pro- gram (VFCRP), and the Foreign Direct Investment Program. During the period under review, how- ever, the mandatory foreign direct investment con- trols and the voluntary program for the restraint of foreign credits by banks and other financial institutions were maintained, although certain relaxations in the regulations were introduced. For purposes of calculating the permissible export credits to their foreign affiliates, U. S. companies could benefit beginning mid-1972 from more advantageous ratios of export credits to exports, and the use of financing from U. S. sources to reduce such export credits no longer constituted a negative transfer of capital under the VFCRP. Moreover, beginning 1973, credits extended by direct investors to their foreign affiliates in con- nection with the export or lease of qualifying U. S. goods and services were exempted from the foreign direct investment regulations. The alterna- tive minimum positive direct investment allow- ables were consolidated into a single world-wide minimum allowable of US$6 million per year, and, as in 1971, direct investors who had foreign claims in excess of the amount permitted under the ceiling for 1972, as established under the mandatory program, were permitted to postpone until the end of February 1973 the repatriation of these funds to comply with the program ceil- ings for 1972. Early in 1973 legislation was intro- duced into the Congress to extend the Interest Equalization Tax until the end of 1974; the pro- posed rates are the same as those presently in force. The developing countries, on the whole, did not relax restrictions on capital outflows. A number of these countries intensified restrictions to curb out- ward capital movements. They included Jamaica, Peru, Tanzania, and Uganda. Moreover, the extension of exchange controls to formerly exempt areas (see below) has involved a widening in the geographical scope of existing controls on capital outflows. Certain Operations Account countries, however, followed France in the relaxing of restrictions on personal capital transfers. The United Kingdom on March 22, 1972 abol- ished the program of voluntary restraint applied to direct and portfolio investment in the more developed countries of the Sterling Area (Aus- tralia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South Africa), and certain restrictions on capital outflows to EEC countries were relaxed in anticipation of EEC requirements. Further relaxations covering certain personal capital movements were intro- duced for the same purpose in May 1972. On June 23, 1972, however, when the United King- dom announced that the market rate for ster- ling would not necessarily be confined within announced limits, the United Kingdom and Ire- land extended exchange control to the rest of the Sterling Area by deleting the countries con- cerned from the list of Scheduled Territories. The excluded countries became part of the External Account Area, which previously consisted only of the non-Sterling Area. This measure was not intended to involve the introduction by the United Kingdom or Ireland of restrictions on payments and transfers for current international trans- actions, but it had considerable impact on inward and outward capital transfers. Outward direct investment in the Overseas Sterling Area became subject to individual exchange control approval, although this was normally given and foreign exchange for this purpose was granted at the offi- cial rate; outward investment in real estate for personal use became subject to individual approval and had to be financed with investment cur- rency; and outward portfolio investment, although covered by a general permission, also required the use of investment currency or borrowed foreign currency. All securities payable in the currencies of Overseas Sterling Area countries became for- eign currency securities, and the proceeds of sale by a resident of the United Kingdom or Ireland qualified as investment currency, although the "25 per cent surrender requirement" was not applied to such proceeds. As a result, the scope of the investment currency market in the United Kingdom was widened considerably and the pre- mium on the official exchange rate began to reflect transactions in Overseas Sterling Area securities. Large-scale sales of Australian and Hong Kong securities early in 1973 helped to reduce the pre- mium to an exceptionally low level. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS The Overseas Sterling Area countries generally reacted to the move by the United Kingdom by extending exchange control to the rest of the Sterling Area. As in the United Kingdom and Ireland, this implied considerable changes in the prescription of currency regulations and in the application of controls to inward and outward capital transfers, and an extension of the sur- render requirements to receipts in Sterling Area currencies, During the period under review, the Euro- currency markets continued to grow, despite vari- ous new capital control measures in 1971 and later. Activity in medium-term multiple currency loans grew particularly fast, as did Euro-bond issues in French francs and Luxembourg francs and Euro-note issues in Netherlands guilders. Developing countries were increasingly successful in tapping the resources of the Euro-currency markets. The Asian Dollar market in Singapore, which is increasingly linked to the Euro-currency markets, also continued to expand. 6. Gold During the period under review, there were only few major modifications in the regulations governing nonofficial transactions in gold. In early 1973 Japan liberalized its restrictions on gold imports and discontinued controls on domestic resale prices. Singapore liberalized the import and export of gold coins. In Ecuador, imports of non- monetary gold, as from April 1972, could only be financed through the free exchange market and the advance import deposit requirement was reduced from 100 per cent to 50 per cent; in August the requirement was eliminated. In Mexico, trading in gold coins, which had been interrupted since August 1971, resumed in early 1972. On November 15, a gold futures market was opened in Canada by the Winnipeg Com- modity Exchange. Its regulations provided for a minimum purchase of 400 ounces of gold 0.995 pure with a 10 per cent margin requirement and a limit of US$2 an ounce for price variation dur- ing any trading session. The Treasury Department of the United States confirmed that U. S. brokers were able U> deal in the new futures market, though only for citizens and concerns holding licenses to purchase gold; the severe restrictions on the holding and purchase of gold by U. S. citi- zens and U. S. residents were not relaxed, nor were the almost equally stringent regulations in the United Kingdom after the 1971 restoration of 14 the permission for residents to hold and negotiate gold coins. Issuers of commemorative gold coins included Ethiopia, Malaysia, Jersey (United King- dom), and Malta. Such issues have been quite widespread in recent years, although they have occurred mainly in developing countries, e.g., prior to the period under review, in Chad, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Korea, Laos, Lesotho, Malaysia, Singapore, and Tunisia. III. Regional Arrangements The negotiations for the enlargement of the EEC with several European countries were com- pleted in January 1972. After the ratification of the Treaties of Accession, Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom became full members of the EEC as of January 1, 1973. However, Norway did not join the Community because the Acts of Membership were rejected in a referendum held in September 1972. In accordance with the terms of entry, industrial tariffs between the original and the new member states will be eliminated in five stages by July 1, 1977, agricultural alignment will be accomplished in six stages by December 31, 1977, and restrictions on capital movements are generally to be aligned on the relevant EEC direc- tives within 5 years of accession. Free trade agree- ments were signed on July 22, 1972 by the enlarged EEC and five member countries of the European Free Trade Association (Austria, Ice- land, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland) pro- viding for the gradual reduction and eventual elimination by July 1, 1977 of customs duties and other fiscal customs charges applying on trade in industrial products. Longer transitional periods are provided, however, for paper (11 years) and a few other industrial products. These agreements also came into force on January 1, 1973. A simi- lar agreement with Finland was initialed but has not as yet been signed. Although two members of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA)11 joined the EEC and five signed free trade agreements with the EEC, EFTA continues in force. A Protocol concerning the maintenance of EFTA free trade was signed on December 21, 1972, the parties being Austria, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. They undertook to give effect to the transitional 11 Its members in 1972 were Austria, Denmark, Ice- land, No rway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and the Un i ted Kingdom. Finland is linked to EFTA by the Finland-EFTA Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS arrangements concerning the relations between Denmark and the United Kingdom on the one hand and the remaining EFTA countries on the other, as set out in the annex and appendices to the Protocol. Toward the end of 1972 the EEC began negotiations with the Government of Norway for the conclusion of a free trade agree- ment. Negotiations were completed on April 16, 1973, when the agreement was initialed, and sig- nature was expected to take place on May 14, after which the first tariff reductions were to be made on July 1, 1973. On May 12, 1972 Mauritius signed an agree- ment by which it would become the first Sterling Area country to become associated with the EEC through the Second Yaounde Convention. The EEC signed or extended preferential trade agree- ments with a number of Mediterranean countries, including Egypt. The previous Report noted some important steps taken by the EEC, following the realign- ment of currencies in December 1971, toward the establishment by stages of an economic and mone- tary union. The most important of these was the adoption on March 21, 1972 of a Resolution of the Council of the EEC which, inter alia, pro- posed that the EEC central banks progressively narrow the spread between their currencies. The Resolution also proposed the intervention tech- niques in the exchange markets and procedures for settlement of balances resulting from interven- tion in EEC currencies of the narrow margin scheme, and the regulation of short-term capital flows and the neutralization of their impact on EEC economies. The narrower margins came into effect on April 24, 1972, when the central banks of Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, and the Netherlands began to apply arrangements to ensure that the maximum divergence from cross- parities between any two currencies did not exceed 2V4 per cent. The United Kingdom and Denmark joined the scheme as of May 1, but withdrew on June 23, 1972, after the market rate for sterling ceased to be confined necessarily within its announced margins, although Denmark rejoined on October 10. Norway joined as of May 23, 1972. Italy in mid-1972 was granted a waiver permitting it to intervene in U. S. dollars in order to maintain its margins against other EEC cur- rencies. This waiver expired at the end of the year. Early in 1973, when Italy announced that the market rate for the lira in the official market would not necessarily be confined within the announced margins, it also withdrew from the narrower margin arrangement. The Benelux agree- ment of August 1971 reducing the margins between the Belgian franc and the Netherlands guilder to ll/2 per cent either side of their cross- parity remained in effect; this cross-parity remained unchanged both in the Smithsonian realignment of December 1971 and subsequently. Intervention in EEC currencies entails for the participants the accumulation by their central banks of the currencies of other members and thus the need for settlement of accumulated bal- ances. The scheme that went into effect in April 1972 provided for settlement of balances on the last day of the month following the one in which the balance appeared, though with the possibility of postponement of settlement for an additional three-month period by mutual agreement. The arrangement provided that settlements would take place either in the currency of the creditor or in gold, SDRs, reserve position in the Fund, and foreign currencies. The proportions of gold and gold-based assets on the one hand and foreign currencies on the other were to reflect the propor- tions in which they were held in the debtor's reserves. The scheme for settlements on this basis ini- tially encountered operational difficulties as a result of the sharp rise in the free market price for gold, which made deficit countries unwilling to use gold reserves in settlements. Thus, following the floating of the pound sterling in June 1972, Italy was allowed to use dollars in support inter- ventions to keep the lira within the agreed intra- EEC margins whereas the scheme originally provided that intervention in dollars would be undertaken only at the IMF limits. Council Regulation No. 907/73 of April 3, 1973, which entered into force on April 6, estab- lished the European Monetary Cooperation Fund (EMCF) and contains its Statutes. Within the limits of its powers the EMCF is to promote (a) the proper functioning of the progressive nar- rowing of the margins of fluctuation of the Com- munity currencies against each other; (b) interven- tions in Community currencies on the exchange markets; and (c) settlements between central banks leading to a concerted policy on reserves. In the first stage of its functions the EMCF will be responsible for (a) the concerted action neces- sary for the proper functioning of the Community exchange system; (b) the multilateralization of positions resulting from interventions by central 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS banks in Community currencies and the m u l t i- lateralization of intra-Community settlements; and (c) the administration of the very short-term financing provided for by the Agreement between the central banks of the enlarged Community of April 10, 1972 relating to narrower margins and of the short-term monetary support provided for in the Agreement between central banks of the Community of February 9, 1970, to which the central banks of Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom acceded with effect from Janu- ary 8, 1973. In December 1972 it was announced that the European Monetary Agreement (EMA) would be terminated by the end of 1972. New arrange- ments will carry on some of its func t ions and will include an agreement on exchange guarantees and the establishment within the Organization for Eco- nomic Cooperation and Development (OECD) of a new Committee for Monetary and Foreign Exchange Matters. The exchange guarantee, which was established for an initial period of three years beginning January 1, 1973, provides a guarantee on the working balances held by a central bank on account with another central bank in the lat- ter's national currency. The central banks par- ticipating in this agreement are those of Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. Although the Bank of England is a participant, the provisions of the agreement will not be applied to it until the United Kingdom resumes maintaining the rates for sterling within margins. The new Committee for Monetary and Foreign Exchange Matters was created with the general purpose of providing a forum for all OECD mem- bers in which problems of monetary cooperation, in particular those regarding exchange markets, can be examined. The Committee will supervise the operation of the exchange guarantee; it will also be responsible for proposing to the Council of the OECD any arrangements pertaining to the operation of exchange markets which could be needed in light of developments, and, in particu- lar, of the progress made toward reform of the international monetary system. The Committee will include representatives of each OECD coun- try. Representatives from the Commission of the EEC, the Bank for International Settlements, and the representatives of the Managing Director of the IMF will take part in the discussions of the 16 Committee, Two of the ma in fea tu res of the EMA are reflected in the new arrangements: that of providing a fo rum for the examination of mone- ta ry and financial questions between experts of governments and central banks, and the existence of an exchange guarantee on central banks' hold- ings of participating countries' currencies. In A f r ica, the treaty establishing the Commu- n i ty of West A f r ican States (CEAO) was signed on June 3, 1972 by Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. The CEAO is to replace the West A f r ican Customs Union and will come into effect on January 1 of the year following ratification by at least five members. The CEAO, which was established with EEC assistance, is to some degree modeled on the EEC, providing for a common external tariff and the free circulation of goods, capital, and labor. It specifically provides for (a) organized trade in agricultural products; (b) a preferential regime for industrial products; (c) a community development fund to compensate for customs revenue losses resulting from trade liberalization; and (d) policies of economic cooperation concern- ing industry and transport. At a meeting of the Association of African Central Banks in May 1972, it was decided to proceed with studies regarding the proposals for the establishment of payments arrangements among central banks. Those taking part were The Gambia, Ghana, Mali, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and the West African Monetary Union. At its Eighth Annual Meeting in Algiers in July 1972, the Governors of the African Development Bank (ADB) adopted a resolution calling for a ministerial conference of African States to elabo- rate a common stance on eliminating monetary and other obstacles to the development of African trade. They also adopted an agreement establish- ing the African Development Fund (ADF) to assist the ADB in making an effective contribu- tion to the economic and social development and promote regional and subregional cooperation; the ADF is to provide finance in concessional terms for purposes that serve such development. The ADF, which is to have non-African members also, may make its resources available to national devel- opment banks and other institutions for relending in respect to projects approved by the ADB. In October 1972 a study by the Arab League recommended greater integration within the Arab Common Market. It urged members to take advan- tage of the efforts of the Council for Mutual Eco- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS nomic Assistance to achieve closer cooperation with Arab States. In Central America on September 1, 1972, Costa Rica announced at the Twelfth Meeting of the Normalizing Commission that it would apply the free market rate of exchange to all imports of nonessential goods from other members of the Central American Common Market (CACM ). On September 5 El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua announced (a) limitations for 1972 trade among the three countries to a level of 5 per cent above 1971 trade; (b) the temporary suspension of duty-free trade regarding Costa Rican goods until that country published a list of essential goods; (c) a guarantee of free trade for only listed products; and (d) the application of retaliatory fiscal measures to all Costa Rican goods not on the essential list. The following day Costa Rica announced the temporary suspension of trade with other CACM members. Certain bilateral trade agreements with Costa Rica have since brought some relief. On January 3, 1973, following the earthquake in Nicaragua, the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras announced their readiness to offer financial assistance to Nicaragua. First, the Central American Monetary Stabilization Fund (CAMSF) would consider a Nicaraguan request for a US$30 million stand-by arrangement as soon as the latter could submit a stabilization plan. Second, the resources of CAMSF (US$11 million) would be invested in Nicaraguan securities. Third, the other central banks could extend credits to Nicaragua for an amount of US$4 million. Fourth, it was recom- mended that the balances resulting from multi- lateral compensation in 1973 be refinanced by the central banks of other countries. Fifth, credit lines in addition to existing credits were to be con- sidered by the other members. On May 9 the central banks of Central Ameri- can countries and the Bank of Mexico signed an agreement under which the latter would grant a US$10 million credit to the former with an amor- tization period of up to three years and low rates of interest. The credit would be used to correct temporary imbalances in the overall balance of payments of Central American countries. With the signing of this agreement, the resources of the Stabilization Fund were increased to US$62 mil- lion made up as follows: CAMSF members US$20 million, U. S. AID US$10 million, Bank of Mexico US$10 million, Bank of America US$10 m i l l ion, Deutsch-Sudamerikanische Bank US$7 million, and the Central Bank of Venezuela US$5 million. More recently, the German Government has made certain funds available to the Stabiliza- tion Fund. It has been announced that the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA)12 is to be trans- formed into the Caribbean Community, including the Caribbean Common Market. Member coun- tries will have a common external tariff and such economic integration instruments as the Caribbean Investment Corporation and agreement on har- monization of fiscal incentives and on double taxa- tion. In April 1973, at the Eighth Conference of Heads of Government of Commonwealth Carib- bean countries, it was agreed that Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago would sign and ratify the Community treaty so as to enable the Caribbean Community and Caribbean Common Market to be established on August 1, 1973; British Honduras, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent undertook to become members on May 1, 1974; Antigua and Montserrat have not yet decided when they will sign the treaty. CARIFTA, which was formed in 1968 and has laid the foundation for further progress in development and closer regional economic integration among its member states, formally ceases to exist on May 1, 1974. In May 1972 at the Eighth Meeting of the Financial Policy and Monetary Council of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA),13 it was agreed (a) to revise the Santo Domingo Agreement (agreement providing multi- lateral temporary assistance in cases of liquidity deficiency); (b) to increase from 90 days to 120 days the period of compensation under the pay- ments mechanism; and (c) effective September 1, 1972, to subject the debits under the bilateral lines of credit to the rediscount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York less 1.5 per cent. The Andean Common Market14 moved further toward economic integration, including the finan- cial aspects of economic relations among mem- bers, the payments problems of the subregions, and the functioning of the multilateral compensa- 12 The members are Antigua, Barbados, British Hon- duras, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 13 The members are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. 14 The members are Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecua- dor, and Peru. 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tion and reciprocal credit swings with regard to subregional trade. At a meeting in June of the central banks of the countries participating in the Cartagena Agreement (BANCEPAC) it was resolved to recommend the creation of a seminar on the specific aspects of programing and to constitute a working party to which would be recommended the consideration and development of (a) financial mechanisms to stimulate cor- respondence relations, including granting of credit among central banks; (b) short-term financial assistance for balance of payments reasons; and (c) the possibility of creating a market for bank- ing acceptances in BANCEPAC countries. At a meeting of the Monetary and Exchange Board of the Cartagena Agreement it was resolved, inter alia, to recommend bases for harmonized mone- tary and exchange policies in the context of sub- regional integration. Early in 1973, Venezuela joined the Andean Group. Further steps were taken toward economic co- operation among countries in the United Nations Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East (ECAFE). In August, the Intergovernmental Committee for the Establishment of an Asian Reserve Bank met in Bangkok to consider a feasi- bility study on the project and to develop the draft guidelines for such a bank, which had been for- mulated in 1970, into a Draft Agreement. On September 25, on the occasion of the Fund's Annual Meeting, a meeting of the delegates from ECAFE countries was organized to exchange their latest views on integration in the ECAFE region. In February 1973 officials of a number of countries of the region adopted a draft of the Articles of the Asian Clearing Union; signing of the Agreement by central banks was expected to begin soon. In July 1972, at a meeting of the central banks of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)15 it was declared that there was a need for a clearing scheme among the member coun- tries, and a working party was established to study the matter further. 15 The members are Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Tha i land. 18 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX Statement by the Council of the European Communities, Brussels, March 12, 1973 The Council of the Community met on 11 March 1973 to examine the measures to be taken to cope w i th the international monetary crisis, par t icu lar ly in the light of the meeting of the enlarged Group of Ten which took place in Paris on 9 March. The Council recorded the following decisions: —the max imum ma rg in between the DM, the Danish crown, the florin, the Belgian f ranc, the Luxembourg and the French f r anc w i ll be ma in ta ined at 2 .25%; in the case of Member States opera t ing a two-tier exchange market, this unde r tak ing will only app ly to the regulated market; —the Central Banks will no longer be obliged to intervene in the fluctuation marg ins of the Un i ted States dollar; —in order to protect the system against disruptive capital movements, the D irec t ive of 21 March 1972 will be more e f fec t ive ly implemented and add i t ional controls will be put in to operation as far as is neces- sary. The British, Irish and I ta l ian members of the Coun- cil stated that the ir Governmen ts in tended to associate themselves as soon as possible w i th the decision which had been taken to ma in ta in the Commun i ty exchange margins. To this end, the Commission w i ll put fo rw a rd the suggestions that it considers su i tab le at the same time as it submits its report on the ad jus tment of short-term monetary support and the conditions for progressive pooling of reserves w i th in the set period, that is by 30 June 1973. The Council agreed th at in the m e a n t ime close and continuing consu l ta t ion on mone ta ry ma t te rs w i ll be maintained between the competent bodies in the Mem- ber States. The Represen ta t ive of the Federal Ge rman Govern- ment gave notice of the in ten t ion of his Gove rnment to make a m inor ad ju s tm ent of the cen tral ra te of the DM before the exchange ma rke ts were re-opened in order to make a con t r ibu t ion towards the o rde r ly develop- ment of the opera t ion of the exchange ma rke t s. The technical details a f f e c t i ng the ques t ions set out above w i ll be wo rked out w i t h in the next few days tak ing account of the next m e e t ing of the en la rged Group of Ten wh ich is to take place in Par is on F r iday 16 March, and will be made applicable on 19 March 1973, the day set for the re-open ing of the exchange markets. Press Commun ique of the M in is te r ial Meeting of the G roup of Ten and the European Economic Community, Paris, March 16, 1973 1. The M in i s t e rs and Cen t ral B ank Governors of the ten countries participating in the General A r rangemen ts to Borrow 1 and the member coun tr ies of the European Economic Commun i tyx met in Paris on 16th March, 1973 under the chairmanship of Mr. Valery Giscard d'Estaing, Minister of the Economy and of Finance of France. Mr. P.-P. Schweitzer, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, took part in the meeting, which was also attended by Mr. Nello Celio, head of the Federal Department of Finance of the Swiss Con- federation, Mr. E. Stopper, President of the Swiss National Bank, Mr. W. Haferkamp, Vice-President of the Commission of the European Economic Community, Mr. E. van Lennep, Secretary-General of the Organisa- tion for Economic Co-operation and Development, Mr. Rene Larre, General Manager of the Bank for Interna- tional Settlements, and Mr. Jeremy Morse, Chairman of the Deputies of the Committee of Twenty of the IMF. 2. The Ministers and Governors heard a report by the Chairman of their Deputies, Mr. Rinaldo Ossola, on the results of the technical study which the Deputies have carried out in accordance with the instructions given to them. 3. The Ministers and Governors took no te of the deci- sions of the members of the EEC announced on Mon- day. Six members of the EEC and certain other Euro- pean countries, including Sweden, will maintain two and one quarter per cent margins between their currencies. The currencies of certain countries, such as Italy, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Japan, and Canada remain, for the time being, floating. However, Italy, the United Kingdom, and Ireland have expressed the intention of associating themselves as soon as possible with the deci- sion to ma in ta in EEC exchange rates within margins of two and one quarter per cent and meanwh i le of rema in- ing in consultation with their EEC partners. 4. The Ministers and Governors reiterated their deter- mination to ensure jo in t ly an orderly exchange rate sys- tem. To this end, they agreed on the basis for an opera- tional approach towards the exchange markets in the near fu tu re and on certain fu r th er studies to be com- pleted as a matter of urgency. 5. They agreed in p r inc ip le that official in te rven t ion in exchange ma rke ts may be useful at appropriate times to fac i l i ta te the ma in tenance of order ly conditions, keeping in mind also the des i rab i l i ty of encouraging reflows of specu la t ive movemen ts of fund s. Each nation stated that it w i ll be prepared to intervene at its in i t ia t ive in its own marke t, when necessary and desirable, acting in a flexible manner in the light of market conditions and in close consultation w i th the authorities of the nation whose cu r r en cy may be bought or sold. The countries which have decided to ma in ta in two and one quarter per cent m a rg ins between the ir currencies have made known their in ten t ion of concerting among themselves the application of these provisions. Such intervention w i ll be financed, when necessary, th rough use of m u t u al credit f a c i l i t i e s. To ensure f u l ly adequa te resources for such operations, it is envisaged that some of the ex is t ing "swap" fac i l i t ies w i ll be en la rged. 1 The G roup of Ten comprises six of the member coun t r ies of the Eu ropean Economic C omm u n i ty (B e lg ium, France, G e rm a n y, I t a ly, the N e th e r l and s, and the Un i ted K i n g d om ), as well as f o ur o th er c o u n t r i es (C a n a d a, J a p a n, Sweden, and the Un i ted S t a t e s ). The o t h er t h r ee m emb er coun t r i es of the EEC, D enm a rk, I re land, and L u x em b o u r g, also p a r t i c i p a t ed in this mee t ing. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R E PORT ON E X CH A NGE RE STR ICT IONS 6. Some coun t r ies have announced a d d i t i o n al m e a s u r es to restrain capital inf lows. The Un i ted States a u t h o r i t i es emphasized that the ph a s ing out of th e ir con tro ls on longer-term cap i tal ou tf lows by the end of 1974 was in tended to coincide w i th strong imp rov em ent in the U. S. balance of paymen ts position. Any steps t ak en d u r- ing the in te r im period towa rd the e l im i n a t i on of these controls wou ld take due account of exchange m a rk et conditions and the balance of paymen ts t rends. The U. S. au tho r i t ies are also rev iew ing ac t ions that may be appro- p r ia te to remove inh ib i t ions on the in f low of c a p i t al in to the Un i ted States. Coun t r ies in a s trong p aym en ts posi- tion w i ll review the possibility of remov ing or r e l ax ing any restrictions on cap i tal ou tf lows, p a r t i c u l a r ly long- term. 7. M in is ters and Governors noted the impo r tance of dampening speculative capital movements. They stated the ir in ten t ion to seek more complete und e r s t and ing of the sources and na tu re of the la rge cap i tal flows wh i ch have recen t ly taken p lace. W i th respect to eu ro -cu r rency markets, they agreed that methods of reduc ing the vo la- t i l i ty of these ma rke ts w i ll be studied in t en s iv e ly, t a k i ng into account the implications for the longer run opera- tion of the international monetary system. These s tud ies will address themselves, among other fac to rs, to l im i t a- tions on placement of official reserves in th at m a r k et by member nations of the IMF and to the possible need for reserve requirements comparable to those in n a t i o n al banking markets. With respect to the fo rme r, the M in- isters and Governors conf irmed that th e ir au tho r i t i es would be prepared to take the lead by imp l em en t ing cer- tain under tak ings t h at their own p lacemen ts wou ld be g r adu a l ly and p ruden t ly w i thd r awn. The Un i ted States w i ll r e v i ew po s s ib le ac t ion to encou rage a f low of eu ro- c u r r e n cy f u n ds to the U n i t ed States as m a rk et c o n d i t i o ns p e rm i t. 8. In the con text of d iscuss ions of mone ta ry re fo rm, the M i n i s t e rs and Governors agreed t h at proposals for f u n d i ng or conso l ida t ion of o f f ic ial c u r r e n cy ba lances deserved t h o r o u gh and u rg ent a t ten t ion. Th is ma t ter is a l ready on the agenda of the Comm i t t ee of Twenty of t he IMF. 9. M i n i s t e rs and Gove rno rs r e a f f i rm ed the ir a t tachment to the basic pr inc ip les w h i ch have governed in terna t ional economic re la t ions since the last w a r — t he greatest pos- s ib le f reedom for i n t e r n a t i o n al t rade and inve s tment and the avo idance of compe t i t ive changes of exchange rates. They stated t h e ir de te rm ina t ion to c o n t i n ue to use the e x i s t i ng o rgan i sa t ions of i n t e r n a t i o n al economic coopera- t ion to m a in t a in these p r inc ip les for the benef it of all t h e ir membe rs. 10. M in i s t e rs and Governors expressed the ir un an imous conv ic t ion that i n t e r n a t i o n al monetary s t a b i l i ty rests, in the last ana lys is, on the success of n a t ion al e f f o r ts to con ta in inflation. They are resolved to pursue fu l ly app rop r ia te policies to th is end. 11. M i n i s t e rs and Gove rno rs are con f id ent t h a t, taken together, these moves w i ll l a u n ch an in te rna t iona l ly responsible p rog ramme for dea l ing w i th the speculative pressures that have recen t ly emerged and for m a i n t a i n i ng o rde r ly in t e rn a t ion al mone ta ry a r rangemen ts, wh i le the wo rk of re fo rm of the in t e rn a t ion al mone tary system is pressed ahead. They re i tera ted th e ir concern that th is work be expedited and b rought to an ea r ly conclusion in the f ramewo rk of the Committee of Twen ty of the IMF. 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the member countries of the Fund, including three nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange system of one other coun- try which was not a member of the Fund at the time this Report was written is also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1972. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments which took place early in 1973. The description of an exchange system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and juris- diction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the sec- tion "Changes during 1972" may include refer- ences to certain developments that have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in drafting the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system during 1972. An indication of the subject ma t ter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value and/or the central rate and/or the official exchange rates are given, usually in terms of SDRs and U. S. dollars, together with a refer- ence to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the surveys of certain countries with multiple exchange rate sys- tems, fu r ther details are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see be low ). The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1972, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is ex- plained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories whose residents have com- mon rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control, some indica- tion is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the require- ments affec t ing the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other coun- tries, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified cate- gories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral pay- ments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has international importance, the pre- scription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by nonresidents in accounts with authorized banks. Payments to and from such nonresident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in foreign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the na tu re and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional requirements imposed on paymen ts for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license," which is used in some countries, indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other in terna t ional transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing require- ments, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given free ly, or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports from countries in the European Economic Community. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some coun- tries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the appli- cation of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to indicate that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a com- mercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a require- ment that the exchange be sold in a free ma rke t. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the spe- cial arrangements or limitations attached to inter- national receipts and payments in respect of capi- tal items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Pro- ceeds from Invisibles. Under Gold, the principal provisions are sum- marized that govern the holding, negotiation, and import and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is pro- vided for certain countries having a multiple cur- rency practice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective on a specified date are given. For convenience, the da ta in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U. S. dollar. The tables include effective rates arising from the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at d ifferent rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange cer- tificates, etc. Under Changes during 1972, the more signifi- cant changes in the country's restrictive system during 1972 are presented in chronological order. Important measures made effective in the early months of 1973 are indicated in certain surveys in footnotes to the text. The ind iv idual country surveys were prepared by the staff of the Fund and reviewed by the authorities of the countries concerned. Prepa- ration of this part of the Report was under the general direction of Mr. J. H. C. de Looper, Chief, Exchange Restrictions Division. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Country Surveys ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System The par v a l ue is 0.0197482 g ram of fine gold per Afghani, corresponding to Af 45.0454 = SDR 1 or Af 41.4475 = US$1. The A fgh an i s t an Bank ( the central b a n k) charges commissions rang ing from %0 of 1 per cent to i£ of 1 per cent on exchange trans- actions. The Bank's o f f ic ial buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. do l lar are Af 44.70 and Af 45.30, respectively. The off ic ial se l l ing ra te applies to certain foreign exchange paymen ts by the Cen t ral Government. The official b u y i ng rate applies to the proceeds of exports of k a r akul (which is exported on ly to the convertible currency a r e a ), wool (except cashmere wool exported to the convertible cu r rency a r e a ), cotton, and na tu ral gas (wh ich is exported only to the U. S. S. R . ); to 30 per cent of the foreign cur- rency salaries of foreign employees of the Government, government enterprises, and domestic companies; and to purchases of bilateral agreement currencies for ma in tenance in A f g h a n i s t an of embassies and state trad- ing organizations by the respective bilateral par tner countries. Exchange subsidies are applied to the official buying rate as follows: Af 7 per US$1 for export proceeds f rom cotton when payment is received under a bilateral payments agreement; Af 10 per US$1 for proceeds in convertible currencies from exports of wool; Af 25 per US$1 for proceeds in convertible currencies from exports of cotton; and Af 20 per US$1 for pro- ceeds from exports of karaku l. All other transactions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar; proceeds from the export of walnuts received over bilateral payments accounts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. The Afghanistan Bank ma in ta ins its operational free market selling rate for the U. S. dollar within Af 2.0 per US$1 of the daily free market rate quoted in the bazaar. On December 31, 1972, the free market rate of the Afghanistan Bank was Af 79.50 buying, and Af 80.00 selling, per US$1, and the free market rate in the bazaar was Af 78.20 buying, and Af 78.70 selling, per US$1. The Afghanistan Bank also posts free market rates for deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect their relative values to the U. S. dollar in international markets, and free market rates for the Indian rupee and Pakistan rupee that are determined by demand and supply for the currencies concerned. The Afghan is tan Bank from time to time buys and sells in the free market bilateral agreement dollars and bilateral agreement sterling resulting partly from loans for consumer goods under certain of Afghanistan's bilateral payments agreements; most of this exchange sold by the Bank is purchased by govern- ment commercial and indus tr ial enterprises for their imports from the countries concerned. The selling rate for U. S. S. R. clearing dollars was Af 70.50 per US$1 on December 30, 1972, and that for mainland China clearing sterling was Af 221.50 per <£ stg. 1. On the same date, the selling rate for clearing dollars under the paymen ts agreemen ts with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia was Af 65.50 per US$1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through the A fgh an i s t an Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies, some of them government owned or government controlled, specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agreements x must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements. The proceeds f rom exports of karakul, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible cur- rencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammun i t ion) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quan t i ta t ive restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded, and the Government facilitates the fulfillment of the commit- ments undertaken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with bilateral agreement countries is carried out on a compensation basis and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for the Government's external debt servicing. Exchange is provided at the official rate for imports by the Government. Payments for imports through the banking system may be made only under letters of credit, against which a deposit of 100 per cent of the value of the imports in afghanis calculated at the pre- vailing free market rate, or in foreign exchange, is 1 Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Poland, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a bilateral payments arrangement with India under which the bulk of trade is settled through a special account maintained in inconvertible Indian rupees with the Reserve Bank of India. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN required upon establishment of the letter of credit. Such deposits may be used as collateral to obtain loans from commercial banks. The Afghanistan Bank is authorized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of a group of consumer goods that are regarded as non- essential. However, exchange for these items may be purchased either from the commercial banks or in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Central government payments for foreign debt service and other invisibles are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled free ly at free market rates. Travelers leaving Afghan is tan may take out not more than Af 500 in Afghani banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ). However, exporters of cotton are required to sell at least 20 per cent of the ir total exports to countries f rom wh ich pay- ments will be received in conver t ib le currencies. Karakul is not exported to paymen ts agreement countries. Exchange receipts f rom exports of ka raku l, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate, irrespec- tive of des t ina t ion. The net proceeds of all exports other than ka raku l, wool, and cotton, irrespective of the cur- rency in wh ich they accrue, must e i ther be sold at free market rates to a domestic bank or be used by the exporter or a th i rd party to pay for impor ts. Export receipts f rom cotton are subject to an exchange subsidy at the rate of Af 25 per US$1 for convertible currency receipts and Af 7 per US$1 for exports settled under b i la te ral paymen ts agreements. Conver t ib le cur- rency receipts f rom wool exports are paid an exchange subsidy at the rate of Af 10 per US$1 and those f rom karakul exports are paid an exchange subsidy of Af 20 per US$1. Proceeds f rom the export of walnuts received over b i la teral paymen ts accoun ts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Th ir ty per cent of the fore ign cu r rency salaries of foreign employees of the A fgh an pub l ic and private sectors mu st be converted in to a f g h a n is at the official ra te, but the r em a i n i ng 70 per cent may be remitted abroad or exchanged at the f ree m a rk et ra te. Except in the case of Ind ia, receipts over b i la te ral paymen ts agree- ment accoun ts f rom the embassies and state t rad ing o rgan iza t ions of the coun t r ies concerned for their local expenses in A fgh an i s t an are converted at the official rate. All other receipts f rom inv is ib les are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. 28 Travelers entering Afghan is tan may bring in Afghan banknotes not exceeding Af 500. Capital Foreign investment in Afghan is tan requires prior approval and is adm in is tered, as is domestic private investment, by an Inves tment Committee composed of five cabinet ministers. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law (February 10, 1967) provides for a number of benefits, which inc lude ( 1) income tax exemption for five years, beg inn ing from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports for five consecutive years af ter approval of the invest- men t; ( 3) exemption f rom taxes on dividends for five years after the first d is tr ibu t ion of dividends, but not more than eight years after the approval of the invest- ment; (4) exemption f rom personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on foreign loans which con- stitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties for ten years a f t er the approval of the inves tmen t; and (6) manda tory purchases by govern- ment agencies and depar tmen ts of their requirements f rom enterprises established under the law where such products are subs tan t ia l ly compe t i t ive with imports in price and quality. The law also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no fu r ther license to operate in A fghan is tan. Principal and interest installments on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repa tr ia ted a f ter five years at an a n n u al rate not exceeding 25 per cent of the total registered capital. All the fo rego ing transfers are made through the f ree ma rke t. Joint ven tures of foreign and A fghan capital are encouraged, but no specific per- centages of domestic par t ic ipa t ion are prescribed and 100 per cent foreign-owned investments are not pre- cluded by law. Gold Residents may free ly import and purchase, hold, and sell domestically gold in any fo rm. Exports of gold and silver in any form other th an jewe lry require licenses issued by the Council of M in is ters; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Com- mercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles c o n t a i n i ng m i n or q u a n t i t i es of gold or silver do not requ ire a l icense and may be made free ly. Customs du t ies are payab le on impo r ts and exports of silver in any f o rm, un less the import or export is made by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities. The import duty on gold is 1 per cent. Changes during 1972 March 20. The exchange subsidy for the proceeds f rom cotton exports received under bilateral pay- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments agreements was raised f rom Af 3 to Af 7 per US$1. May 3. The Afghanistan Bank's selling rate for mainland China clearing sterling was raised from Af 206.20 to Af 218.50 per <£ stg. 1. July 26. The Afghanistan Bank's selling rate for mainland China clearing sterling was raised from Af 218.50 to Af 221.50 per <£ stg. 1. August 17. The Afghanistan Bank's selling rate for U. S. S. R. clearing dollars was raised from Af 60.50 to Af 70.50 per US$1 and its selling rate for clearing dollars under the payments agreements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia was raised from Af 55.50 to Af 65.50 per US$1. AFGHANISTAN 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Exchange Rate System * No par value for the currency of Algeria has been established with the Fund. The official un it of currency is the Algerian Dinar, which is denned as having a gold content of 0.18 gram of fine gold. The exchange rate for the French f r anc is a fixed rate of DA 1 = F 1.12499; this rate is applied irrespective of the exchange market for which the settlement is eligible in France. The effec t ive parity re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dollar is DA 4.54729 = US$1. The Central Bank of Algeria deals in French francs and the other French Franc Area currencies at fixed rates. Buy ing and selling rates for specified currencies of countries ou ts ide the French Franc A r e ax are established by the Central Bank of Algeria, generally on the basis of the daily rates quoted on the French official exchange market and other exchange markets abroad. The exchange rate applicable to "agreement dollars" is the average rate for the U. S. dollar in the Paris official exchange market on the day preceding the en try on the clearing account. The Cen- tral Bank charges on its transactions in fore ign cur- rencies a commission ranging f rom 0.2 per mill to 0.4 per mill, depending on the na tu re of the transaction, and a tax of 6 per cent on the amount of the commis- sion. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign correspond- ents at the end of each day but they are under certain conditions permitted to hold outside Algeria cover for documentary credits. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank of Algeria assists in the formulation of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their execution and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, three commercial banks and the Postal Administration have been given authority to carry out some of the detail of exchange control. Import and export licenses and global import authoriza- tions are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Import and export licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. The Office National de Commercialisation (ONACO ), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OA IC ), the Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Vitivinicoles (ONCV ), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA ), the Societe Na- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Algeria decided to maintain the value of its currency unchanged in terms of gold. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became DA 4.09257 = US$1. 1 These currencies are listed as Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Nether- lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 30 tionale d'Edition et de D i f fus ion (SNED ), the Societe Na t iona le de Siderurgie (SNS ), the Societe Nationale de Cons truc t ions Mecan iques (SONACOME ), and other s im i lar o rgan iza t ions have a monopo ly over the import of a large n um b er of commodities. The Societe Na- t iona le pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la T r an s fo rm a t ion et la Commerc ia l isa t ion des Hydro- ca rbu res (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of p e t ro l eum and petroleum prod- ucts, and hand les most exports of these commodities. Inves tment of fo re ign cap i tal in excess of DA 500,000 in A lger ia requ i res app roval by a Na t ional Investment Committee in order to ob ta in the benefits of the Invest- ment Code. All fore ign borrow ing requires the prior app roval of the M in is ter of Finance. Prescription of Currency A lger ia has certain trad i t ional ties with the French Franc Area. The Central Bank of Algeria does not ma in ta in an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treas- ury and A lge r ia in pr inc ip le applies its exchange con- trols to t ransac t ion w i th all countries.- Settlements with other coun tr ies in the French Franc Area are generally made in French f r an c s. Settlements with countries with which A lge r ia has concluded bilateral payments agree- ments are made th rough special accounts under the te rms of the agreements. Some of these accounts are denominated in Algerian dinars and others in U. S. dol- lars of account. Algeria ma in ta ins payments agreements with A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, ma in land China, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Egypt, Gu inea, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Poland, Romania, the U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries may be made through the Paris exchange markets in French francs or in the currency of the coun try concerned. Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, the regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are similar to those applied un t il early 1967 in France; most of these accounts are Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Accounts. For residents of other French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in Algerian dinars: Individual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Departure Accounts. Except as described below, all operations through these accounts are sub- ject to authorization. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Algeria its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968, in its financial relations with fore ign countries, and the dual ma rket regula- tions introduced on August 23, 1971, are also applied to Algeria. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Franc Area Accounts may be opened only w i th prior authorization f rom the Central Bank of Algeria. They may be credited freely for authorized imports f rom the French Franc Area, and w i th proceeds f rom the sale of convertible cu r renc ies; w i th proceeds f rom the sale of freely disposable f u n ds (o ther than notes and coins) in the currencies of other coun tr ies of the French Franc Area; and w i th in te rest on the balances of Franc Area Accounts. The Cen t ral Bank may au tho r ize the credit- ing of other payments. They may be debited f ree ly for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any coun t ry in the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing A l g e r i a ); for any transfer to the credit of an account of a person res id ing in a country in the French Franc Area other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank w i th which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repayment of capital claims. Transfers between these accounts are free. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion, in the name of any person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian na t iona l i ty, who in tends to leave Algeria for another country in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the sales are made through the interme- diary of a notary public; and w i th any other payments, up to DA 1,000. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other payments. These accounts may be debited w i thout prior approval for cer ta in payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder; outward trans- fers require ind iv idual approval. The Central Bank of Algeria ma in ta ins special accounts for central banks of the countries with which Algeria has concluded payments agreements. Residents and nonresidents may ma in ta in certain accounts in Algeria that are fed w i th the proceeds from the conversion of conver t ib le currencies (comptes epargne-devises). Depositors receive a p rem ium equiva- lent to one eighth of the amounts deposited. Withdraw- als may be made in A lge r ian d inars only. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. Commodities listed under some 600 tariff headings and subheadings are liberalized and do not require import licenses, although licenses may be applied for. All other imports are permitted, in prin- ciple, in accordance w i th an annual import program. This is implemented ma in ly through global import au- thorizations (autorisations globales d'importation or AG I ). Imports made "without payment" (sans paie- ment), i.e., imports which do not involve compensation of any kind, require an authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and are not charged against the global authorizations of public enterprises. The Government in ALGERIA pr inc ip le has the monopoly over the importation of many commodities through ONACO, OAIC, SNTA, ONCV, SNED, SNS, SONATRACH, SONACOME, and other s im i lar organizations, but imports are not necessar i ly restricted to the monopoly holders. All imports must pr ior to the transaction be domiciled w i th an au tho r ized bank, to which the necessary import documen ts must be presented and through which all paymen ts re la ted to the transac t ion must be made. Un- less the Cen t ral Bank approves otherwise, advance pay- men ts may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the impo rt va lue, whichever is smaller. Payments for imports may be app roved by, and settled through, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion up to an impo rt va lue of DA 5,000. All ind iv idu al impo rt licenses requ i re the visa of the Cen t ral Bank. Impo r te rs may, as soon as the import has been regis- tered with an au thor ized bank, purchase the required fo re ign exchange f r om the bank. Some imports may be paid for as soon as the transac t ion has been domiciled. For other impo r ts, unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance w i th the provisions of the import license or of a commercial contract approved by the author- ities, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only a f t er the sh ipp ing documents have been presented to the bank; the importer in this case may also, after having domiciled the impor t, open a documentary import credit payable upon presen ta t ion of the shipping documents. Goods subject to import license and quota restrictions may be f ree ly imported in small parcels, provided that the va lue of a shipment does not exceed DA 60 and the same addressee does not receive more than one parcel a day and that the parcels he receives during the year do not exceed DA 240 in value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. However, when sup- porting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the post office, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized either by the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Certain public enterprises, however, which receive special exchange allocations (budget devises) may use these freely for payments for specified invisibles, including transportation and other services contracted abroad. The t rans fer of fam i ly remittances is suspended. Residents of other French Franc Area countries working in Algeria under the program for technical cooperation may transfer abroad a certain percentage of their net salaries: 50 per cent for single persons and married persons having their families in Algeria; 70 per 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA cent for persons having their families abroad; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the transfer being limited to the duration of their absence from Algeria). For other workers from French Franc Area countries who have contracts with employers and hold the necessary employment docu- ments, the amounts that may be transferred are 30 per cent, 50 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for the groups enumera ted above, and transfers are also permitted when the worker's fam i ly is staying with him in Algeria. Residents of other countries who are employed in Algeria under the program of technical cooperation are permitted to t ran s fer abroad 30, 50, and 100 per cent, respectively. For workers f rom other countries, who have contracts with employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the correspond- ing percentages are 25, 45, and 100. The payments must be transferred once a mon th on the basis of the remu- neration for the previous month. Persons making such transfers of savings are not entitled to allocations for other personal t rans fe rs (e.g., for educational pu rposes ). For residents traveling by air or sea to other coun- tries, including the French Franc Area, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 100 a person a trip (DA 50 for children under 15) and is issued on presentation of a valid passport and t ravel documents; for overland travel, the allocation is DA 100 a person a year for adu l ts and DA 50 for children under 15. These allocations are not applicable to persons living in border areas. Foreign travel requires the approval of the wali of the traveler's place of domicile. Algerian workers who hold a card of the Office National de la Main-d'Oeuvre (ONAMO) are entitled to the equivalent of DA 500 a person for the first trip abroad, and to the equivalent of DA 200 a person for each subsequent trip. Foreign exchange for private business travel is sub- ject to authorization by the Central Bank of Algeria and allocations cannot exceed DA 1,500 a trip. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia may obtain Saudi Arabian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 1,500 a per- son; the allocation can be taken up in the form of a check by those traveling by air or sea, and in banknotes by those traveling overland. Travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Non- resident travelers may also re-export any foreign cur- rency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports, inc lud ing used equipment and machinery, livestock, firearms, ammun i- tion, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are pro- hibited regardless of destination. Some exports to the French Franc Area, all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area that are not included in the free export list, and all exports to countries with wh ich Algeria has bilateral paymen ts agreements require licenses. The export of specified products is reserved 32 for certain state trading organizations. Some commodi- ties may be exported, subject to individual prior ap- proval, on the basis of linked transactions (transactions liees) involving at the same time an authorized import transaction. With certain exceptions, exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Prior registration is not required for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, provided that they do not exceed DA 5,000 in value and that they are payable in not more than 60 days. Af ter customs clearance, such exports must be regis- tered, if they were not registered earlier. If the payment period is more than 30 days, the exports may be regis- tered only after authorization is given by the Central Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to authorization by the M in is try of Finance, and registra- tion must always take place prior to customs clearance. The proceeds of exports of commodities other than hydrocarbons, including those to the French Franc Area, must be repatriated immediately after the pay- ment becomes due; the due date of the export contract must not be later than 60 days following shipment, except when prior authorization f rom the Central Bank is obtained. Those nationalized petroleum companies ho ld ing m ine ral rights in which the Algerian Govern- ment has acquired majority control must repatriate to A lger ia the proceeds f rom their exports of hydrocarbons calculated on the basis of a reference price per barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. One petroleum company holding mineral rights, how- ever, must repatriate 75 per cent of its actual export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonres iden ts must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reim- port Algerian d inar bankno tes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any des- tination are subject to individual license; residents are not norma l ly permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance. A new Investment Code, superseding that of 1963, was promulgated by Ordinance No. 66-284 of Septem- ber 15, 1966. It provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors. The new code provides for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquida- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tion proceeds of invested foreign capital, and estab- lishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annua l ly of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under Ordinance No. 66-284. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Imports and exports of gold in any form requ ire licenses issued by the Cen- tral Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports on behalf of authorized indus- trial and dental users, and licenses for imports for industrial use have not been issued for some time. Under the terms of Ordinance No. 70-6 of Janua ry 16, 1970, unworked gold for indus t r ial and professional use is to be distributed by the Agence Na t iona le pour la Dis- tribution et la T ran s fo rma t ion de 1'Or et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR ). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, w i th in the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, inc lud ing gold. Fur thermore, locally produced gold mu st be sold to this agency. As at the end of 1972, AGENOR had not yet become operational and some of its fun c t ions con t inued to be pe r fo rmed by the Central Bank (e.g., the issuance of import licenses for den tal g o l d ). Commerc ial impo r ts of jewe lry and of other articles con t a in ing gold are proh ib i ted. Changes during 1972 January 1. The budget for 1972 (O rd inance No. 71-86) came in to effec t. Expor ts became exempt f rom the single g lobal produc t ion tax. January 1. The repa t r ia t ion and su r render requ ire- ments for the export proceeds of pe t ro leum companies were modified. February 21. An Order of the M in i s t ry of Commerce removed quo ta restrictions and a ll app roval fo rma l i t ies from impo r ts listed u n d er some 120 t a r i ff headings or their par ts. Many of these items had been put under quota restrictions on J u ne 5, 1971. The impo rt of a few of the new ly l ibera l ized i tems con t inued to be subject to monopoly. February 21. An Order of the M i n i s t ry of Commerce removed quo ta res tr ic t ions (imposed w i t h in the f rame- work of Decree No. 63-188 of May 16, 1963) f rom imports listed und er some 460 t a r i ff headings or the ir parts; all of these i tems con t inued to be subject to monopoly. March JO. M i n i s t ry of F inance Notice No. 70 made all imports f rom all sources subject to domiciliation; ALGERIA previously, imports valued at DA 10,000 or less were exempt. The Notice also contained instructions concern- ing the domiciliation of (a) goods imported by monop- oly companies within the framework of their single global authorizations, and (b) goods subject to import monopoly but imported by holders of a "monopoly visa" (visa de monopole). With respect to the former, authorized banks had to administer the "financial budgets" of the global author- izations held by national companies and public enter- prises which held a monopoly. Prior to domiciliation, banks had to ascertain that the commodity to be im- ported was covered by the global authorization and that the allocation for that commodity had not been used up. The impo rt payment could be made as soon as domicil- iation had taken place. With respect to the other cate- gory of imports, banks were required to request produc- tion of the visa and the impo rt title before domiciling the transac t ion. The importer could pay his supplier upon shipment. New repor t ing requirements were imposed on the in termed iary banks for both types of import transac- tions. March 21. Ordinance No. 72-9 gave the State Milk M a rk e t ing Office (ONALA IT) the monopoly for the import of fresh m i lk and cream and of certain dried and powdered m i lk. April 8. The import of a small number of commodi- ties for industrial use previously subject to quota was f u l ly liberalized. April 20. The State Chemical Industries (SNIC) announced that commodities for which, following a trans i t ional period, it was given an import monopoly by v i r tue of Ordinance No. 71-53 of July 15, 1971, could be imported henceforth only through its offices. Accordingly, SNIC no longer granted a visa for such impor ts to private importers. April 28. A Notice to Importers was issued listing the goods that on December 1, 1971 had been freed from the requ i rement of the p r ior import authorization (AP I) in troduced on June 5, 1971. May. SONATRACH announced that a number of specified commodities for which, following a period of t ran s i t ion, it was given an import monopoly by virtue of Ordinance No. 71-48 of Ju ly 15, 1971, could be imported hence fo r th on ly th rough its offices. Accord- ingly, SONATRACH no longer granted a visa for such impo r ts to pr iva te importers. June 2. No t ice No. 41 ZF w i thd rew the delegated au tho r i ty to authorized banks to sell foreign exchange for t r an s f e rs abroad of savings from salaries by French n a t i o n a ls w o r k i ng in Algeria under the program for technical cooperation. With effect f rom July 1, such t ran s fe rs had to be made th rough the Postal Adm in is tra- t ion, and persons hav ing the ir fam i l ies abroad were required to document this in order to be entitled to the highest percentage allocation. June 7. Ord inance No. 72-24 approved the agree- 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA ments reached in the second half of 1971 by the Alge- rian Government and SONATRACH with var ious for- eign oil companies, and no tab ly -those w i th respect to compensation for the complete or par t ial nationalization of French oil companies operating in A lge r ia. June 7. Decree No. 72-120 dissolved, effec t ive Janu- ary 1, 1972, those French oil companies whose social capital had been taken over in its entirety by SONATRACH. Also w i th e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1972 the Decree t rans fe r red the ir assets to the latter. June 14. Ins truc t ion No. 12 HC to au thor ized banks and customs specified that hence fo r th the dom ic i l ia t ion of exports of liquid hydrocarbons could be made up to 15 days fo l low ing the date of shipping. July 10. M in is t ry of Finance Notice No. 71 increased the l im it on the sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad by A lger ian workers ho ld ing a card of the Office Na t iona le de la Ma in -d 'Oeuv re (ONAMO) f rom the equ iva lent of DA 200 to the equ iva lent of DA 500 for each person for the f irst t r i p; for each subsequent trip abroad the l im it rema ined fixed at the equ iva lent of DA 200 for each person. The Notice provided f u r t h er that an A lger ian na t ional who no rma l ly resided abroad and traveled to Algeria on vaca t ion, was en t i t led, when re tu rn ing abroad, to pu rchase fo re ign exchange equiva- lent to one tenth of the amount brought in and sold to an au thor ized in te rmed ia ry at the border at the time of entering Algeria, but not in excess of DA 500. July 27. Decree No. 72-169, imp lemen t ing Article 24 of the 1972 budget, set the amounts available for export subsidies at DA 5 million for olive oil and DA 5 million for all other products, and the amount available for price equalization support on imported cereals, cereal derivatives, and dried vegetables at DA 60 million. August 1. A M in is try of Finance Order authorized the Caisse Nationale d'Epargne to open for resident and nonresident physical persons a special type of savings account denominated in Algerian dinars (compte epargne-devises). These could be credited only with proceeds f rom the conversion by the account holder of convertible fore ign exchange ( inc lud ing bankno tes) and with interest and the p rem ium mentioned below; they could be debited only for withdrawals by the holder or his heirs in Algerian dinars, which could be made at any time. Balances on the accounts would earn interest of 3.5 per cent per annum exempt f rom all taxes. In add i t ion, depositors were to be paid a p rem ium (prime d'encouragement) equal to one eighth of the d inar coun terva lue of the fore ign currency converted. The p r em ium, which wou ld be financed by the Treasury, wou ld earn the same in terest as the deposited balances and wou ld also be exempt f r om all taxes. These provi- sions were dec lared app l icab le also to the savings ac- coun ts denom ina ted in A lge r ian d inars and held by non res iden ts by v i r t ue of the M i n i s t ry of F inance Order of May 6, 1971 (w h i ch had in t roduced a system of comptes epargne-devises), and to any comptes epargne- devises held or to be held w i th commerc ial banks. Hold- ers of the new accoun ts wou ld also be entitled to all the advan tages of the housing-savings scheme (systeme d'epargne-logement) in t roduced by the M in is try of F inance Order of F eb ru a ry 19, 1971. September 4. The M i n i s t ry of Commerce announced that impo r ts of l ibera l ized commodities were subject to a ce i l ing for 1972 of DA 200 m i l l ion. September 9. A b i la te ral t rade ag reement with Ghana was signed and came in to force immed ia te ly. All settle- m en ts were to take place in conve r t ib le currencies. October 16. M i n i s t ry of Finance Order No. 74 extended the ob l iga to ry period of repa tr ia t ion for pro- ceeds f rom expor ts of f o ur commodities f rom 60 days to 90 days. December 29. Ord inance No. 72-68 of the same date con ta in ing the 1973 budget was published. It introduced with effect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1973 a new customs ta r i f f. The impo rt ta r i ff hence fo r th comprised only a normal ta r i ff (tarif de droit commun), for goods originating in coun tr ies that accord Algeria most-favored-nation treat- men t, and a special t a r i f f, which could be applied to imports o r ig ina t ing in cer ta in coun tr ies or groups of coun tr ies in r e t u rn for s im i lar advantages extended by them, no tab ly coun t r ies in the Maghreb group. The new customs ta r i ff no longer provided for a separate mini- mum p re fe ren t ial t a r i ff for goods of EEC origin, nor for a general t a r i ff (w i th rates three times those of the normal t a r i f f) for goods o r ig ina t ing in countries (includ- ing Hong Kong and J a p a n) other than most-favored- na t ion and EEC countries. The special tariff was not applied to EEC countries, which consequently lost the ta r i ff preferences they previously enjoyed. The rates of the new no rmal t a r i f f, however, generally were identical with those of the fo rmer special ta r i f f. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exchange Rate System * On Janua ry 9, 1957, a par va lue for the A rg en t ine Peso was established by A rg en t ina w i th the Fund. However, exchange t ran sac t ions no longer take place at rates based on that par va lue. All exchange transactions take place in a dual exchange ma rke t. In p r inc ip le, the commercial ma rket covers trade transactions and the f inanc ial market all other transactions. In the commercial ma rke t, the Cen- tral Bank of A rgen t ina deals with banks and authorized institutions at the official rate of $a 5.00 per US$1, buying and selling. In the f inanc ial ma rket the exchange rate, which in pr inc ip le is a fluctuating one, has been stable since May 1972; on December 31, 1972 it was $a 9.98 (se l l ing) per US$1. The effec t ive exchange rate for most exports and for most imports is a m ix ing rate derived f rom the conversion of 26 per cent of the amounts concerned at the commercial rate and 74 per cent at the f inanc ial rate. Exports and imports of books, newspapers, periodicals and gold coins are set- tled entirely through the f inanc ial ma rke t. Impor ts of specified intermediate and capital goods, specified less essential goods, and pearls, diamonds, p la t inum, and palladium also are settled entirely at the financial rate. Sales of foreign exchange to residents for travel pur- poses are subject to an exchange tax of $a 2.00 per US$1. Exchange transactions between banks and indi- viduals, other than transactions in banknotes, are sub- ject to a tax of 1 per cent (10 per m i l l) on sales to customers and 3 per mill on purchases. Forward exchange transactions may be concluded between ind iv idua ls and authorized banks or among authorized banks at the prevailing financial rate, sub- ject to freely agreed premiums or discounts. Forward exchange purchases by the public are restricted to those concluded as part of a swap transaction, or to cover import payments made under documen tary credit, bank collection, or bank guarantee. Swap operations must be submitted to the Central Bank for prior approval. Forward exchange purchases covering import payments require a 40 per cent deposit in local currency for a period of 180 days; this deposit may not be financed by local banks. Forward exchange contracts connected with imports may be extended for a period of up to 180 days from the date of their original ma tur i ty; those corresponding to exports may be extended only once, for a period of 30 days (or, where shipment is unavoid- ably delayed, for the period of the de lay ). Such con- tracts may be settled through clearing in the exchange * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the exchange rates for the U. S. dollar in both the f inanc ial and the commercial ma rket were ma in ta ined unchanged. With e f fect f rom February 20, 90 per cent of the proceeds from non t rad i t ional expor ts included in Decree No. 5062/71 (as amended) could be sold in the f inanc ial exchange ma rke t, and w i th effect from April 26 the fu ll proceeds could be sold in that market. market. The Central Bank intervenes in the forward exchange marke t, for transactions at the financial rate only, as a seller of U. S. dollars at a prem ium which at the end of 1972 was 22 per cent per annum. A rgen t ina fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out th rough banks and in s t i tu t ions authorized expressly for this purpose. These inc lude exchange agencies and exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Virtually all payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Transactions with other countries must be settled in convertible currencies; proceeds from exports to such other countries normally must be received in U. S. dollars.1 Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresident, provided that the accounts are fed with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argen- tina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports are in principle free of import and exchange licensing. At the end of 1972, however, all imports of specified nonessential commodities were prohibited, as were all imports by the public sector, unless in the lat- ter case the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce was obtained. Furthermore, certain imports were sus- pended, and others required an "attestation" of necessity issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Also, sales of foreign exchange for all imports with foreign financing of less than 180 days require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Independently of these temporary measures, goods imported by official agencies require approval by the Ministry of Finance if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Furthermore, all public sector imports are screened by a special body, the 1 With e f f e ct f rom Ap r il 23, 1973 the proceeds f rom exports to 16 specified countries had to be received in the currency of the importing country rather than in U. S. dollars. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Asesoria de Importaciones del Sector Oficial. Imports of some vehicles, tractors, and engines are prohibited. All maritime imports are subject to a tax of 10 per cent on the freight. Import taxes include the following: a consular fee of ll/2 per cent payable normally in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of ll/2 per cent or %o of 1 per cent applicable to all imports; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest products; and taxes ranging from $a 0.02 to $a 0.2 a kilogram on imports of iron and steel for the Steel Program. Authorized banks are prohibited from opening doc- umentary credits in respect of public sector imports (other than for those originating in LAFTA countries) except with prior authorization from the Government. Furthermore, the Central Bank requires authorized institutions to advise it of all requested payments cover- ing imports for which no banking documents are sub- mitted, in which case Central Bank approval is required. The same requirement applies when docu- ments submitted do not specify the date of payment, or if the date originally indicated by the correspondent has been changed, and when bills or drafts expire more than five days prior to the date on which the t rans fer is required. An advance import deposit of 40 per cent of the c. & f. value is required on many goods from all sources except when imported by the public sector, by some firms being established in the Province of Tucuman, by certain ins t i tu t ions, or according to the intended use of the goods; goods imported from LAFTA countries are exempt if the goods are included in Argentina's concession lists (including the special lists for Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and U rugu ay ). The commodities that do not require an advance deposit include most raw materials and fue ls, many capital goods, and many sem imanufac tured goods for the production of nontraditional exports. The deposit is payable in pesos and calculated at the cu r rent exchange rate for the commodity to be imported. It must be lodged before any of the fo l low ing actions can be unde r taken: opening a letter of credit; with- drawing shipping documents f rom the intermediary banks; purchas ing forward exchange; or clearing goods through customs. The deposit is au toma t ica l ly re funded a f ter 180 days. Payments for specified capital goods imported by private firms (w i th the exception ma in ly of those in lists applicable to LAFTA coun t r i e s) when valued at over US$10,000 and purchased with foreign or domes- tic credit, must be made in ins ta l lmen ts over a period ranging f rom at least two years to at least five years a f ter the date of shipment, depending on the total value of the goods. Payment in cash at the time of delivery is permitted, however, subject to prior Central Bank approval, if the importer uses exclusively his own 36 funds. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required also when the terms of payment are not in accordance with the prescribed minimum terms or when the amount payable exceeds the equivalent of US$1 million. Advance payments for imports other than capital goods are permitted only in exceptional circumstances. Payments for Invisibles With the exception mainly of family remittances and of remittances of profits, dividends, and royalties, payments for invisibles may be made freely through the financial market. However, allocations of foreign exchange for licensing fees, royalties, and technical services are subject to prior approval by the National Registry of Contracts, Licenses, and Transfer of Tech- nology. Persons and firms eligible for remittances of profits, dividends, and royalties are not granted foreign exchange but instead are permitted to subscribe to negotiable five-year U. S. dollar-denominated external bonds issued by the Government. These may be freely exported and imported. The sale of exchange for travel abroad normally is limited to US$30 a person a day (US$10 for neighboring countries) for up to 30 days. The exchange must be purchased in the financial mar- ket and is subject to an exchange tax of $a 2.00 per US$1. Of the travel allocation for bordering countries, up to the equivalent of $a 100 may be taken out in the form of foreign banknotes or travelers checks; the limit is $a 500 for travel to other countries. The allo- cation for travel to neighboring countries may be sup- plemented, up to a total amount equivalent to $a 400, with the currency of the country of destination. Trav- elers may take out any amount in domestic banknotes and coins except gold. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally free of direct controls but m in imum export prices are established for many agri- cu l tural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The fu ll proceeds from all exports must be repatriated and surrendered; the proceeds must not be less than the index value or the f.o.b. va lue declared on the ship- ping permit. Exporters of traditional commodities are required to receive the foreign exchange proceeds either before shipment or und er an irrevocable docu- mentary credit payable against shipping documents, and they must sell these proceeds within 10 working days a f ter shipment. The proceeds from promoted exports must be surrendered within 180 days of ship- ment, and payments may be received against drafts, in addition to the forms of payment prescribed for traditional exports. There are separate arrangements for exports of books, newspapers, and periodicals; the proceeds of newspapers and periodicals must be sur- rendered within 360 days of shipment and the proceeds of books within 18 months of shipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Many products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on index values. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise or within the fol- lowing 30 days when there is a bank aval that guaran- tees its payment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the freight. Certain other taxes on specific exports are also levied. These include a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Institute for Agricultural Technology, on exports of agricultural and livestock products. Many exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are eligible for ex- port incentives of various kinds. The Central Bank has established a system of special financing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting certain exports of goods and services. This system provides f inanc ing for 80-85 per cent of their va lue, depending on the nature of the commodity or service, with terms of up to eight and one half years for capital goods, three years for durable and semidurable goods, and up to one and one half years for other goods. The same terms apply to the freight and insu rance premiums involved, pro- vided that Argentine means of transport and services are used. The Na t ional Export Credit Insurance Com- mission provides credit insurance for exports of capital goods and consumer durab le goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles may be retained and used for authorized transactions. Travelers may bring in f ree ly any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins. Capital There are no limitations on inward capital t rans fe rs by residents or nonresidents. Outward capital transfers are restricted. Sales of exchange in connection with investments, placements, or deposits w i th in A rgen t ina or abroad require the prior approval of the Central Bank. A rgen t ine indus tr ial or commercial firms require the authorization of the Cen tral Bank to enter into swap opera t ions under which loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Law No. 19328 of Oc- tober 29, 1971. A Foreign Inves tment Law (Law No. 19151 of Ju ly 30, 1 9 7 1) provides that all new foreign invest- ments must have gove rnment app roval and must be registered. Profits and d iv idends may then be remitted from the end of the first year of operation. The firms concerned are pe rm i t ted to receive domestic short-term credit up to 50 per cent of their registered capital and accumulated reserves; this limitation does not apply to export credit. Foreign companies established in Argen- tina prior to the p romu lga t ion of the law are required to register their capital in the inves tment register in ARGENTINA order to be eligible for remittances of profits and divi- dends or for repatriation of capital. Implementing regu- lations are contained in Decree No. 2400 of April 27, 1972. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. They may sell gold in coins and bars in Argentina to institutions and houses authorized to deal in foreign exchange, but the regu- lations permitting nonbank residents to buy gold coins and bars from these firms are in suspense. Imports of gold coins and bars are unrestricted and free of duty; they must be settled through the financial market. Imports by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of %o of 1 per cent, and those by others are subject in addition to sales tax. Exports of gold may be carried out by institutions and houses authorized to engage in exchange transactions; they require the prior approval of the Central Bank and the proceeds must be received in convertible currencies. Changes during 1972 January 3. All exports were exempted from sales tax. February 1. The additional import surcharge intro- duced on November 1, 1971 was reduced from 15 per cent to 10 per cent ad valorem. February 18. Banks and authorized institutions were required to report to the General Bank all foreign exchange sales in excess of US$1,000 (previously US$20,000). February 22. Law No. 19501 abolished the additional import surcharge introduced on November 1, 1971. February 22. Law No. 19503 empowered the Govern- ment to levy variable export duties of up to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue on traditional as well as pro- moted exports. February 23. Exporters of promoted products were permitted to sell 47 per cent of their exchange pro- ceeds at the commercial rate and 53 per cent at the financial rate (previously 60 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively). February 23. The mixing rate for the exchange pro- ceeds from nonpromoted ( t rad i t iona l) exports and for payments for imports was depreciated by a reduction f rom 70 per cent to 57 per cent in the portion settled at the commercial rate. Imports of pearls, diamonds, p la t inum, and palladium henceforth had to be settled entirely at the financial rate. February 23. Decree No. 1001 reduced tax rebates being received by exporters, and increased export taxes. It also introduced an incentive payment of 6 per cent for specified export commodities. February 28. Allocations of fore ign exchange for payments in respect of licensing fees, royalties, and technical services became subject to prior approval by 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA the National Registry of Contracts, Licenses, and Transfer of Technology. March 17. U. S. dollar-denominated ex ternal bonds ("External Dollar Bonds") could hence fo r th be used also to l iqu ida te obligations abroad in respect of profits, dividends, and royalties corresponding to dates a f t er October 31, 1971. The Cen tral Bank was also prepared to consider, subject to the same regu la t ions, payment of due debts incurred for other purposes. (Cen t ral Bank C ircu lar No. R. C. 429 .) March 20. Decree No. 1579 reduced the incen t ive payment introduced by Decree No. 1001 to 2 per cent. It also increased export taxes on a number of commodi- ties. March 20. A new m ix ing rate for the exchange pro- ceeds f rom exports and for payments for imports came into effect, with 64 per cent of each exchange trans- action settled at the f inanc ial rate and 36 per cent at the commercial rate; settlements, however, in respect of imports and exports of books, newspapers, maga- zines, other publications, and gold coins continued to be effected entirely at the f inanc ial rate, and imports of pearls, diamonds, p l a t inum, and pa l lad ium also con- tinued to be settled entirely at the financial rate. Pro- moted exports no longer received a more favorab le exchange rate than traditional exports. The 64:36 ratio was on J u ly 21 changed to 70:30 and on August 29 to 74:26; on both occasions, certain nonessential imports (those listed in the previous para- graph) continued to be settled entirely at the financial rate. May 2. Decree No. 2400 of April 27 was published to implement the Foreign Investment Law, Law No. 19151 of July 30, 1971. The Decree gave defini- tions of "foreign investor" and "foreign investment." All existing and new fore ign inves tmen ts in Argen t ina required registration. Any domestic credit restrictions would apply also to corporations with fo re ign majority ownership of 51 per cent or more. May 2. By Telephone Communication No. 2600 the Central Bank advised that all private and public sector imports must be financed abroad for a period of at least 180 days from the date of shipment, unless the prior approval of the Central Bank was obtained for shorter terms. May 5. Central Bank Circular No. 432 reduced from US$20,000 to US$10,000 the va lue beyond which imports of specified capital goods were subject to pre- scribed minimum credit terms. On the same date, the Central Bank in Telephone Communication No. 2602 advised that the existing exemptions from these minimum credit terms were being maintained, but that the contracts henceforth required the prior approval of the Central Bank. May 12. Central Bank Circular No. R. C. 433 announced the procedures for payment of interest and amortization on External Dollar Bonds. 38 May 15. Decree No. 2867 extended for one year the prohibition on the import of specified nonessential commodities that had been introduced on June 30, 1971 by Decree No. 2118. The Decree also added certain goods to the list of these suspended imports. May 15. Payments for the nonessential imports added by Decree No. 2867 to those listed in Decree No. 2 1 1 8 / 71 had to be effec ted en t ire ly at the financial ra te (Cen t ral Bank C i r cu l ar No. R. C. 434 ). May 15. New export promotion measures were introduced. These inc luded an increase in support prices for whea t, linseed, and other exportable grains, an expansion of the list of export products bene f i t ing from export rebates, and an additional 5 per cent rebate ( for one yea r) for exports of new m anu f a c tu r ed prod- ucts or m anu f a c tu r es exported to non t rad i t ional mar- kets. May 22. Cen t ral Bank C i rcu lar No. R. C. 435 added some 1,800 items to the list of goods exempt from advance import deposit. June 29. Cen t ral Bank C i rcu lar No. R. C. 439 announced the issue of a new series of External Dol- lar Bonds to be used for the t ran s fer of dividends, profits, royalties, and due debts of other kinds. September 18. Foreign exchange allowances for travel abroad were reduced to US$30 a person a day (US$10 for ne ighbor ing coun t r ies ), for up to 30 days. September 19. The tax on sales of fo re ign exchange for foreign travel was increased from $a 0.50 to $a 2.00 per US$1. September 21. The Central Bank by Telephone Com- munication No. 2657 announced that, un t il an Import Policy Commission had been fo rmed, all imports required prior approval by the Government. A tem- porary ban on imports was established. All applications for the opening of letters of credit submitted to banks as of September 21 required the specific approval of the Central Bank. September 21. Central Bank Circular No. R. C. 444 announced that remittances relating to repayments on foreign loans hencefor th required Central Bank author- ization except in the fo l low ing cases: (1) repayments on financial loans previously converted in the official exchange market; (2) foreign loans obtained from specified international agencies; ( 3) foreign loans fall- ing due a f ter September 21 for which new repayment schedules were negotiated; and (4) foreign currency swaps concluded with the Central Bank. September 25. Central Bank Circular No. R. C. 445 limited transfers abroad in respect of scholarships and student expenses to US$300 a month for each bene- ficiary and limited fam i ly remittances to US$50 a month for each remittor and beneficiary. The con- tracting of insurance in foreign currency with local insurance companies also was restricted. October 19. Decree No. 7251 provided, with certain exceptions, for a 90-day suspension of imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 20. C en t r al B a nk C i r c u l ar No. R. C. 446 (together w i th Decrees Nos. 7250 and 7251 and Min- istry of Commerce R e so lu t ion No. 474) in t rodu c ed a new impo rt regime. Impo r ts were d iv ided in to f o ur categories. List I comprised raw ma te r ia ls and essential in termed ia te goods; app roval for these commod i t ies would be au tom a t i c, and p a ym e nt cou ld be made at the existing m i x i ng ra te (74 per cent f inanc ial ra te and 26 per cent comm e r c i al r a t e ). L ist 2 compr ised ce r ta in in termed ia te p roduc ts and c ap i t al goods; for these commodities the p r ior app roval of the M in i s t ry of Com- merce was requ ired, and p aym ent had to be made entirely at the financial ra te. List 3 con ta ined cer ta in goods whose impo r t a t ion w o u ld be su spended for 90 days, du r ing which period an I n t e rm i n i s t e r i al Commis- sion would cons ider the ir a s s ignment to Lists 1 and 2. List 4 covered ce r ta in nonessen t ial and l u x u ry items whose impo r ta t ion wou ld be suspended for 180 days (this proh ib i t ion be ing a d d i t i o n al to the one of Decree No. 2 1 1 8, as am e n d e d ). Banks wou ld be pe rm i t ted to open le t te rs of credit, or t ransm it any o ther i n s t r um e nt of p aym en t, for imports in Lists 1 and 2 o n ly u p on p re sen ta t ion by the importer of a sworn s ta temen t, con f i rmed by the M in- istry of Commerce, a t te s t ing the necessity of the goods to be impor ted. The in s t ruc t ions of Te lephone Commun ica t ions Nos. 2522 of October 22, 1971 and 2600 of May 2, 1972 remained in force. (The fo rmer provided that the sale ARGENTINA of fore ign exchange for imports required the prior approval of the Cen t ral Bank when goods were not covered by documen ts presented through bank ing channe ls, when documen ts presented th rough bank ing channe ls showed no ma tu r i ty date or an amended m a tu r i ty date, or when impo rt paymen ts were f ive days or more past due .) October 31. Decree No. 7473 specified those fo re ign inves tmen ts in A rg en t ina which requ ired registration not later than December 30, 1972. (On December 29, the dead l ine was extended to March 30, 1973.) December 21. Cen t ral Bank C ircu lar No. R. C. 451 increased the su r render period for the exchange pro- ceeds from exports of books to 18 months a f ter ship- ment. December 22. Cen t ral Bank C ircu lar No. R. C. 452 announced the issue of Ex ternal Dollar Bonds of the second series. December 28. Telephone Communication No. 2705 of the Central Bank provided that with effect from Janua ry 2, 1973 the time limit for the utilization of documen ta ry credits for imports could not normally exceed 180 days (one year for capital goods covered by C ircu lar No. R. C. 3 2 8 ). December 29. Law No. 20046 increased the tax on sales of fore ign exchange by authorized institutions from 3 per mill to 10 per mill. It also increased the statistical tax on imports and exports from 3 per mill to 6 per mill. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 1 Exchange Rate System * The par value is 1.04360 grams of fine gold per Australian Dollar, corresponding to $A 0.851544 — SDR 1 or $A 1 = US$1.2750. From time to time Aus- tralia sets official limits within which banks must effect spot transactions with the public in U. S. dollars, the intervention currency; on December 31, 1972 these limits were US$1.2774 and US$1.2726 per $A 1. Banks are free to determine their own spot rates for all other currencies, including sterling; rates quoted are based on closing rates in London and New York. Forward exchange cover may be arranged through the authorized banks for periods appropriate to the nature of the transaction in respect of most exchange risks arising out of trade transactions. Forward exchange cover for transactions in certain invisibles of a noncapital nature may also be arranged. Banks are free to determine their own forward rates for all currencies. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Govern- ment with the advice of the Department of the Treasury and of the Reserve Bank of Australia. The Reserve Bank administers the exchange control on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretion- ary powers are delegated to the trading banks author- ized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is generally administered by the Department of Customs and Excise, with the Depart- ment of Minerals and Energy administering export licensing of minerals and metals, the Department of Transport the import licensing of ships, and the Depart- ment of P r ima ry Indus try being responsible for export licensing of some rural products. Prescription of Currency Australia has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Payments for imports may be made in Aus- tralian currency through the account of an overseas bank with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign cur- rency.2 Proceeds f rom exports may be received in Aus- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, Aus t ra l ia ma in ta ined the par va lue of its currency in te rms of gold. The effec t ive pa r i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. do l lar was changed f rom US$1.2750 to US$1.4167 per $A 1. The o f f ic ial l im i ts for banks' spot dealings in te legraph ic t ran s fe rs were set at US$1.4191 buy ing, and US$1.4143 selling, per $A 1. JT he mon e t a ry area of Au s t ra l ia inc ludes Papua New Gu inea. The Aus t ra l ian dollar circulates in a number of countries, including the New Hebrides, the Br i t ish Solomon Islands Pro tec tora te, Gilbert and Ellice Is lands Co lony, and the Repub l ic of Nau ru. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. 40 tralian currency from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of nonresidents are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents. Under current policy, the balance on an account held by any nonresident may be withdrawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts containing funds ineligible for remit- tance overseas. Imports and Import Payments With the few exceptions mentioned below, goods may be imported freely without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on payments for imports. Import licenses are required for used, secondhand, or disposals machinery or equipment and parts therefor (earthmoving or excavating vehicles, machinery or equipment; tractors, road rollers, or material-handling equ ipmen t); and disposals, used or secondhand four- wheel drive vehicles (excluding public-service type pas- senger vehicles). Ships are classed as prohibited imports, and new or secondhand ships may only be imported with the written consent of the Minister for Transport. In addition, import controls are maintained on certain goods, irrespective of origin, mainly for reasons of health, morals, or security, or to maintain quality stand- ards. In accordance with the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council, manda tory sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia.3 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, bu t, w i th the exception of transfers to specified in V i e t -N am4 and remittances to Rhodesia bodies (except in certain circumstances), they are not restricted; the control operates primarily to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. Applications for outward transfers in connection with current invisibles are normally dealt with immed ia te ly by banks; no fo rms have to be filled out for amoun ts up to $A 2,000, and banks need not report these smaller t rans fe rs to the Reserve Bank. There is a basic exchange allowance of $A 4,000 in any 12 mon ths for any kind of travel in any country; addi- tional amoun ts may be obtained on application, pro- vided that the exchange control is satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses 3 The restrictions on imports f rom Rhodesia were J a n u a ry 18, 1973. 4 The re levant Act was repealed on J anu a ry 11, 1973 and the special restrictions on t ran s fe rs to specified bodies in Viet-Nam have been removed. intensified on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and not for an unauthorized capital transfer. Limits are placed on remittances for f am i ly maintenance and gifts; however, applications for such transfers are treated lib- erally, and amoun ts beyond the normal limit for fam i ly maintenance are approved on application. Foreign exchange is not no rm a l ly provided to enable residents to take out personal l ife insurance w i th foreign insurers. Travelers who are not residents of Aus tra l ia may take out any am o u nt in fo re ign or domestic banknotes within six mon ths of en t ry, provided that they brought the notes in to Aus tra l ia. Other trave lers may take out up to $A 100 in Au s t ra l ian currency, w i thout special au tho r iza t ion; of this amoun t, up to $A 4 may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all commodities, unless specifically exempted, requires an export license in terms of the Bank ing (Foreign Exchange) Regu la t ions, to ensure that the f u ll proceeds are received in a currency and w i th in a period approved by the Reserve Bank; the approved period is w i t h in six mon ths pr ior to or a f ter the date of expo r t a t ion .r> To assist superv is ion, there is a f u r t h er cond i t ion (in the case of export licenses cover- ing goods exported by sh ip) that all shipping docu- ments, b i l ls of lad ing, etc., mu st be d r awn to the order of and de l ivered to the Reserve Bank or a t rad ing bank acting as its agen t. The Cus toms (P roh ib i ted Expor ts) Regu la t ions p r o h i b it the expo rt of specified goods either abso lu te ly or sub ject to prescribed cond i t ions. The con- trols have been established for a variety of purposes i n c l u d i ng the f o l l ow i n g: to en su re adequa te supplies to meet Au s t ra l ia 's domes t ic requ i remen ts (e.g., copper and copper scrap, s ta in less steel scrap, and n a tu r al g a s ), to ensu re adequa te and reasonab le prices, to enable bal- anced deve lopment of A u s t r a l i an m ine ral resources to be pu r sued, to enable A u s t r a l ia to comp ly as required w i th i n t e r n a t i o n al ob l ig a t ions (e.g., t in and u r a n i um ), and to assist the o rd e r ly m a rk e t ing of p r im a ry products. In accordance w i th UN Re so lu t ion No. 253 of 1968, Au s t ra l ia en fo rces t rade s a n c t i o ns aga inst Rhodesia. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om inv is ib les in fo re ign currenc ies do not have to be su r r end e r ed, but may be disposed of only w i th pe rm iss ion. Trave lers may b r i ng in any am o u nt in fore ign or dome s t ic b a n k n o t e s. Capital A ll t r a n s f e rs of cap i tal f r om Au s t r a l ia requ i re ap- p rova l. L e n d i ng overseas by residents is n o rm a l ly not perm i t ted, but a ll domestic cu r r en cy l end ing to overseas- owned or overseas-controlled en terpr ises in Au s t r a l ia is unres tr ic ted. Proposals for d i rect inve s tment overseas 5 On March 28, 1973 the app roved pe r iod for rece ipt p r i or to the date of expo r t a t ion was reduced to w i t h in one m o n th whe re the v a lue of the goods exceeds $A 10,000. AUSTRALIA are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transfers abroad for direct investment involving the export of a signif- icant measure of Australian managerial or technical skills are readily approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of investment which promote Aus- tralian exports or protect existing Australian investments abroad. App roval is norma l ly granted for the repatria- tion of capital by nonres iden ts, but no advance commit- ments are given. Applications by resident ind iv idua ls to invest abroad in amoun ts up to $A 10,000 in any 12-month period no rma l ly are readily approved; institutional investors and pub l ic companies can expect to receive permission to make investments abroad of up to $A 1 million in any 12-month period. Applications for investments in larger amounts are considered in special circumstances. Eligible investments include por tfo l io investments abroad in stocks and shares and investments in real estate; they do not include inves tmen ts in loans or other fixed- interest securities. Approval is required for residents to borrow Aus- t ra l ian or fore ign currency f rom any nonresident, or to incur a l iab i l i ty to a nonresident. In addition residents are requ ired to obtain approval to en ter into contracts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that ac tual or con t ingent rights to payments, any other v a l u a b le cons idera t ion, or services are created in f avor of any non re s iden t, or to allot or t ran s fer secur- ities to, or register secu r i t ies in the name of, any non- res iden t. Bo r row ings f r om overseas lenders of foreign or Au s t ra l ian cu r r en cy in amoun ts exceeding $A 100,000 in any 12 -mon th period which are repayable, or ca r ry op t ions to repay, in two years or less are not permitted (o ther t h an for trade transac t ions on normal trade credit t e rm s ). Persons receiving approval for for- eign bo r row ings in excess of $A 100,000 in any 12-mon th period (o ther than for trade transactions on no rmal t rade credit t e rm s) are requ i red to lodge with the Reserve Bank, th rough the ir own banks, interest f ree, a nonass ignab le deposit in local currency amoun t- ing to 25 per cent of the amount d rawn. Deposits are held for the period of the borrow ing and are re fund- able p ropo r t iona te ly as loans are repaid.'5 For the time ft As f r om F e b r u a ry 2, 1973, the cove rage of the controls over over- seas bo r row ings was e x t e n d ed to in c lude not on ly fo rm al contracts to bo r row but also ind i rect f o rms of bo r row ings and transac t ions hav ing a s im i lar e f fect on c ap i t al i n f l ow. ( 1) D e f e rm ent of paymen ts due to overseas res iden ts in respect of impo r ts, services, d iv idends, and inter- est was res t r ic ted. P a ym e nt to overseas suppliers for goods and serv- ices n o rm a l ly had to be made not la ter t h an six months a f ter the a r r ival of the goods in Au s t r a l i a, or, in the case of services, af ter the da te wh en p a ym e nt is c o n t r a c t u a l ly d u e; d iv id ends and interest due to overseas res iden ts had to be pa id w i th in one mon th of the date on wh ich th ey become payab le. (2) Accep tance of p r e p a ym e nt for exports exceed ing $A 10,000 per t ran sac t ion for longer than one mon th before the da te of s h i pm e nt w o u ld no longer be approved unless the Reserve B ank was sa t i s f ied that such p r e p a ym e nt was in accordance with nor- mal comme rc ial p r a c t i c e. (3) Inc reases in indeb tedness th rough inter- company accoun ts w h i ch cou ld h ave the e f fect of c i rcumven t ing the b o r r ow i ng con tro ls were p r o h i b i t e d. (4) The ex is t ing bo r row ing re- s tr ic t ions, in c lud ing the deposit r e q u i r em e n t, wou ld now be applied also to deposits by overseas re s iden ts w i th such pa r t ies as finance compan ies, pa s to ral compan ies, sho r t - te rm money ma rket dealers, mer- c h a nt banks, acceptance houses, b u i l d i ng societies, brokers, solicitors, and n om i n ee companies. (5) The bo r row ing emba rgo wou ld also apply 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA being, Au s t ra l ian banks are requ ired to sight specific Reserve B a nk app roval for a ll inwa rd cap i tal remit- tances of $A 250,000 or more. Inward equ i ty inves tment requ i res a p p r o v al but is gene ra l ly un r e s t r i c t ed. Measu res i n t r o d u c ed on Septem- ber 26, 1972 prov ide for the con t rol of fo re ign take- overs of A u s t r a l i an bus inesses considered by the Gov- e r nm e nt to be c o n t r a ry to the n a t ion al i n t e r e s t. The Com- panies (Fo r e ign T ak e -Ov e r s) Ac t, 1972 gave legal back- ing to these measures in so far as they re la te to fore ign take-overs of compan ies t h r o u gh the acqu is i t ion of shares. Under the leg is la t ion, the acqu is i t ion by a fo r- eign person or associated persons of 15 per cent of the vo t ing capital (or 40 per cent by fo r e ign persons in the aggregate) is regarded, p r ima fac ie, as a fo re ign take- over, but be fo re any action is taken aga inst the proposal the M in is ter must also be satisfied that the acqu is i t ion of shares in question wou ld lead to the t r a n s f er of effec- tive control to fo re ign persons and that this wou ld be contrary to all na t ional in te res t. The Act is not applied where no loss of A u s t r a l i an control is involved or in general to the take-overs of compan ies whose assets do not exceed $A 1 m i l l i o n, un less there are special cir- cumstances invo lved. The screening and ex am in a t ion of fo re ign take-over proposals is und e r t ak en by a commit- tee made up of off ic ia ls f rom app rop r ia te government departments. The committee's reports are subm i t ted to the Government for decision.7 Foreign securities owned by Au s t ra l ian residents need not be surrendered; approval is given to residents to reinvest the sales proceeds from foreign securities for their own account in other fore ign securities, but they are not norma l ly permitted to t rade in foreign securities among themselves. The export of securities and certain transactions in fore ign securities are subject to approval. The trad ing banks' overall net position in foreign cur- rency is subject to l im i ta t ion; excess holdings must be sold to the Reserve Bank. There are no restrictions on domestic bank credit to overseas-owned or overseas- controlled companies in Aus tra l ia. Gold Residents must surrender to the Reserve Bank of Australia all gold coming into their possession with the to subscriptions by nonresidents to new issues of fixed-interest securi- ties hav ing a m a tu r i ty of two years or less (shor t- term secu r i t ies ), and to purchases by nonres iden ts of ex i s t ing securities having two years or less to run to m a tu r i ty. Short-term secur i t ies for these pu r- poses were defined to inc lude t rea su ry notes, commerc ial bills, trans- ferab le certificates of deposit, and other ma rke tab le secu r i t ies issued by banks, brokers, etc. The variable deposit requ i rement wou ld apply to subscriptions to new issues of securities hav ing a m a t u r i ty of mo re than two years. (The restrictions under (4) and (5) would apply only where the funds tendered by or on behalf of an overseas resident were rem i t ted to Aus t ra l ia for th is purpose on and af ter February 2, 1973.) 7 On March 20, 1973 inwa rd investment in real estate was restricted. For the time being, exchange control approval would not normally be given for the purchase of real estate by overseas interests, except for acquisitions purely incidental to other purposes, such as the establish- ment or expansion of a fac to ry or investment by an individual in a block of land for his own use while employed in Australia or on retirement. In addition, the Government requested overseas interests with f u n ds already in Australia not to enter into significant commit- ments to buy real estate for the time being. 42 exception of gold coins the gold content value of which does not exceed $A 50 and gold l aw f u l ly acquired for use in a p ro fess ion or trade .s New ly mined gold acquired by the Reserve Bank is made available at its official buy ing price of $A 29.80 a fine ounce to an association of gold p roduce rs for sale at f ree market prices to local i n d u s t r i al use rs or overseas pu rchase rs. Cer ta in domestic gold p r o d u c t i on is subs id ized under the Gold-Mining I n d u s t ry Ass is tance Ac t. Impo r ts of gold are not re- s t r ic ted but impo r ted gold becomes sub ject to delivery to the Re se rve B ank. Expo r ts of gold requ ire the app rov al of the Reserve Bank. Gold jewe lry is not sub- ject to acqu i s i t ion by the Reserve Bank and imports of such i tems are u n r e s t r i c t e d. Expor ts of gold jewelry exceeding $A 250 in v a l ue requ ire the issue of an export license. Trave lers r e q u i re an export license if tak ing out of Au s t r a l ia c e r t a in specified goods, in c lud ing gold jew- e l ry, in excess of a to tal v a l ue of $A 10,000 or when the gold con tent v a l ue of any one article exceeds $A 1,000. Changes during 1972 January 1. An increase in assistance to large produc- ers of gold und er the Go ld -M in ing Indus t ry Assistance Act came in to e f fec t. The period of operation of the Act was ex tended f r om June 1973 to June 1975. May 11. The Banks (Shareho ld ings) Act, 1972 pro- hibited the acqu is i t ion by any person or company, with- out app rova l, of 10 per cent or more of the shares of a b ank inco rpo ra ted in Australia. June 21. It was announced that the Government was cons ide r ing the in t rodu c t ion of a screening system for fo re ign cap i tal to en su re that fore ign capital entering Aus t ra l ia for investment would be employed to the coun t ry 's advan tage. June 23. A u s t r a l ia ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in te rms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. June 23. Foreign exchange operations were sus- pended. The Reserve Bank would not, for the time being, provide fo rwa rd exchange facilities. June 28. Foreign exchange operations by banks were resumed on a limited scale. July 4. Restrictions on fore ign exchange operations were f u r t h er eased to perm it banks to buy and sell for- eign exchange for all no rmal t rade and current account transac t ions and to enab le residents to settle amounts con t rac tua l ly due u n d er commerc ial and financial con- tracts entered in to on or before June 23, but for other transac t ions for ind iv idua ls on ly for an amount up to $A 5,000 a resident. (This amount was increased to $A 250,000 on Ju ly 10.) July 10. Forward exchange facilities for trade trans- actions were restored. Forward cover for banks was pro- vided by the Reserve Bank in U. S. dollars at a specified rate, a discount of 1 per cent per annum being set initially on the spot buy ing and selling rates. Forward 8 With e f f e ct f rom Apr il 2, 1973 gold producers in Papua New Guinea became exempt f rom this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cover was also g iv en in s t e r l i ng and C an ad i an do l la rs, at d a i ly rates based on these cu r renc ie s' rates aga inst the U. S. d o l l ar in m a r k e ts abroad. (U n t il J u ne 23, there had been a fixed cha rge for f o rw a rd cover in sterling and a v a r i a b le m a r g in for t h at in U. S. d o l l a rs and Canad ian d o l l a r s, based on these cu r renc ie s' rates against s t e r l i ng in m a r k e ts ab ro ad .) July 13. The t em p o r a ry l im i t a t i o ns on bank s' spot exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns we re removed for a ll t ran sac t ions wh ich met exchange c o n t r ol r e q u i r em e n t s. July 20. Banks were adv ised t h at the d i s t in c t ion be- tween S t e r l i ng A rea and n o n -S t e r l i ng A rea in the pre- scr ip t ion of c u r r e n cy r u l es was removed. Residents hence fo r th cou ld a r r a n ge to rece ive p a ym e n ts f r om and make p a ym e n ts to overseas c o u n t r i es in any fo re ign cu r rency. September 19. It was a n n o u n c ed that the t r ade agree- ment w i th the U n i t ed K i n g d om wou ld be te rm ina ted w i th e f fect f r om F e b r u a ry 1, 1973. The t a r i ff p re fe r- ences en joyed by the U n i t ed K i n g d om wou ld g r a d u a l ly be d i sm a n t l e d. (On F e b r u a ry 1, 1973 the f irst step was taken by the a b o l i t i on of a 7'/2 per cent d u ty on by-law impor ts f r om n o n p r e f e r e n t i al coun t r i e s .) September 26. It was announ c ed t h at leg is la t ion wou ld be in t roduced to p r e v e nt f o r e i gn take -ove rs of Aus- t ra l ian bus inesses cons idered by the G o v e r nm e nt to be contrary to the n a t i o n al in te rest and to establish an independent a u t h o r i ty to a n a l y ze and report on cases referred to it by the Gov e rnm en t. I n t e r im measures were to be b rought i n to immed ia te e f fect und er which depa r tmen tal m a c h i n e ry wou ld be used in place of the independent a u t h o r i t y. The measu res wou ld app ly to acquisitions of shares or o ther assets by overseas inter- ests which m ight reasonab ly be expected to result in control of an A u s t r a l i an bus iness passing to overseas hands. The acqu i s i t ion of 15 per cent or more of the voting power in a comp any by any one overseas interest or associated g r o u p, or 40 per cent or more by overseas interests in the aggregate would cons t i tu te, p r ima facie, a fo re ign take -ove r. The measures wou ld also app ly to the t r an s f er of all or a s ign i f icant pa rt of the ownership or rights over m ine ral areas to overseas interests. The measures wou ld not app ly where the take-over would simply t r a n s f er con trol f rom one overseas interest to another, where overseas in teres ts could demonstrate that an acquisition wou ld not give a significant degree of foreign con tro l, or to cases where the o f fe ree company had assets of $A I m i l l ion or less, except in special circumstances. The criteria to be used in judg ing whether a proposed take-over would be con t ra ry to the national interest were ou t l ined in the announcemen t. September 27. The Reserve Bank no longer granted exchange control app roval for borrowings abroad by Au s t ra l ian residents, in c lud ing fo re ign compan ies resi- dent in Aus t ra l ia, where such borrowings were repay- able, or carried options to repay, in two years or less; for administrative s imp l ic i ty, borrow ings not exceeding $A 100,000 in any one year were exempt for the time AUSTRALIA being. Loan agreemen ts for which exchange control app rov al had been received and borrowings specifically to finance trade transac t ions on no rmal credit terms were not affec ted. September 27. The S te r l ing A rea exemp t ion was revoked, under wh ich m a ny types of transactions between persons and compan ies in Au s t ra l ia and resi- den ts of overseas S te r l ing Area coun tr ies (other than Hong K o n g) had been exemp ted f r om the application of exchange con t rol regu la t ion s, and some types of cap i tal in f lows f rom the overseas S ter l ing Area (as def ined by Au s t r a l i a 's r egu l a t ion s) had in effect been unres tr ic ted. The exemp t ion f rom app roval require- men ts had in c lud ed bo r row ing in Au s t ra l ian dollars by A u s t r a l i an res iden ts f r om o ther S ter l ing Area residents. Hencefor th, t ransac t ions between residents of the Aus- t r a l i an cu r r en cy area and res iden ts of overseas Sterling Area coun t r ies were on the same foo t ing as transactions w i th all o ther non res iden ts. The a u t h o r i ty of the Reserve Bank was the re fo re required by residents of the Aus- t r a l i an cu r r en cy area be fo re ( 1) borrowing Australian or fo re ign cu r rency f rom any nonresident; (2) crediting or mak ing paymen ts to or on beha lf of any nonresident; ( 3) en te r ing into con trac ts (except for the purchase of goods) or acknow ledg ing debts so that actual or con- t i n g e nt rights to paymen ts, any other valuable consid- era t ion, or services were created in favor of any non- resident; or (4) a l lo t t ing or t ran s fe r r ing securities to, or reg is ter ing secur i t ies in the name of, any nonresident. September 27. The May 1965 guidelines on borrow- ing in Au s t r a l ia by enterprises in which more than 25 per cent of the equ i ty is held directly or indirectly by overseas interests were abolished. September 27. Controls over ou twa rd por tfo l io invest- ment, wh ich had been v i r t u a l ly prohibited since 1939, were relaxed. App l ica t ions by ind iv idua ls would nor- m a l ly be readily approved to invest abroad up to $A 10,000 in any period of 12 months, and institutional investors, pub l ic companies, and the l ike could normally expect to be permitted to make investments up to $A 1 m i l l ion in any period of 12 months, with individual consideration being given in special circumstances to applications in excess of these amoun ts. Eligible invest- ments would inc lude shares, stocks, and real estate, but not investment in loans or other fixed-interest securities. Policy toward direct inves tment overseas would continue to be very liberal. October 24. The Companies (Foreign Take-Overs) Bill was introduced in Par l iamen t. (It was enacted on November 2 and came into operation on November 9, 1972.) The legislation provided legal backing to the measures announced on September 26 insofar as they relate to fore ign take-overs of companies through the acquisition of shares. The Act was stated to be interim legislation and by its own terms would expire on December 31, 1973. The ma in powers of intervention provided were powers to make orders prohibiting the implementation of pa r t icu lar take-overs on an interim 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA or final basis, and the power to limit the beneficial inter- ests that a particular foreign interest or associated group of interests may have in a specified company in those cases deemed by the Government to be contrary to the national interest. December 23. The par value was changed from 0.995310 g ram to 1.04360 grams of fine gold per Aus- tra l ian do l lar. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar was changed f rom $A 1 = US$1.21600 to $A 1 = US$1.2750. December 23. The Reserve Bank changed its official buy ing price for newly m ined gold f rom $A 31.25 to $A 29.80 a fine ounce. December 23. It was announced that the coverage of the embargo on overseas borrowing repayable within two years would be broadened. (With effect f rom Feb- rua ry 2, 1973 the restrictions on borrowing abroad were extended to cover certain indirect forms of bor- rowing and certain transactions having a similar effect on the inflow of capital.) December 27. A variable deposit requirement in local currency, in i t ia l ly set at 25 per cent of the amount bor- rowed, was introduced on drawings under new borrow- ing in foreign or Australian currency from overseas lenders at terms of over two years. The nonassignable deposits, which wou ld bear no interest, would have to be lodged concurren t ly with the receipt of loan proceeds and held w i th the Reserve Bank dur ing the entire bor- rowing period, although they would be refunded pan passu with the loan repayments. Exempt were ( 1) bor- rowings specifically to finance trade transactions on nor- mal trade credit terms; (2) borrowings of $A 100,000 or less in any 12-month period; and ( 3) drawings under foreign loan agreements a l ready approved by the Reserve Bank. 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.0359059 gram of fine gold per Austrian Schilling. A central rate of S 23.30 per US$1 has been established, corresponding to S 25.2971 = SDR 1, and Au s t r ia avails itself of wider margins. The official l im i ts for the U. S. do l lar, the intervention cur- rency, are S 22.78 buy ing, and S 23.82 selling, per US$1 —rates at which the Aus t r ian National Bank will buy or sell. The rate for the U. S. do l lar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies va ry between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Aus tr ia and such limits in force in the country of the other cu r rency concerned, or, if no such limits are observed, are based on market rates in the principal exchange ma rke ts abroad. "Agreement dollars" are quoted at par w i th the U. S. do l lar. Effective costs may dev ia te in sw i tch t ransac t ions. Forward premiums and discounts are in p r in c ip le l e ft to the in te rp lay of ma rket forces. Austria fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian Na t ional Bank administers the exchange control and issues licenses whe re requ ired. Most exchange transactions pass through those Austrian banks that have been authorized to implement exchange control regulations. The customs issue f ree ly and w i thout delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for o ther imports and for exports have to be obtained f rom the compe tent m in is t ry, viz., the Federal M in is t ry of Trade, Commerce, and Indu s t ry (Licensing Office) or the Federal M in is try of Agriculture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th the coun t r ies w i th wh ich Aus tr ia ma in ta ins b i l a t e r al p aym en ts a r r ang em en ts 1 are made through c lea r ing accoun ts expressed e i ther in U. S. dol- lars ( f or R o m a n i a) or in s c h i l l i n gs ( f or Eastern Ger- * Fo l low ing the a n n o u n c em e nt on F eb ru a ry 12, 1973 t h at the U. S. dollar was be ing deva lued, Au s t r ia w i th e f f e ct f r om F e b r u a ry 13 established a c en t r al ra te of S 20.97 = US$1 and c o n t i n u ed to av a il itself of w i d er m a r g i n s. New u p p er and lower i n t e r v e n t i on po in ts w e re set at S 21.44 and S 20.50 per US$1, r e sp e c t iv e ly. S u b s e q u e n t ly Austria notified the Fund tha t, w i th e f fect f r om March 19, it wou ld not, for the t ime b e i n g, e n s u re t h at ex ch ange ra tes w o u ld be kept w i t h in the m a r g i ns h i t h e r to observed for spot e x c h a n ge t r a n s a c t i o ns between t he A u s t r i an s c h i l l i ng a nd o t h er cu r r en c i e s. F o l l o w i ng t h is action, A u s t r ia c omm u n i c a t ed to the F u nd a ra te of SDR 0.0404196 per s c h i l l i ng e f fec t ive March 29, 1973; no m a r g i ns we re announ c ed. 1 Eas tern G e rm a ny and R om a n i a. The ag reement w i th Ea s te rn Ge r- many is to be t e rm i n a t ed by J a n u a ry 1, 1974 and t h at w i th Rom an ia by J u ly 1, 1973. m a n y ). Settlements with all other countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between "multi- lateral member countries" ( IMF or OECD members with which settlements take place in convertible curren- c ies ), "multilateral nonmember countries" (other coun- tries with which settlements are in convertible curren- c ies ), and "bilateral countries" (w i th which clearing arrangemen ts are in fo rce ). Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonresi- dents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds f rom the sale of gold coins or convertible cur- rencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an au thor ized bank, provided that the conversion serves to make a cu r rent payment to a resident, as well as w i th payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accoun ts may be freely debited for payments to Aus tr ian residents, who mus t, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans f rom nonresidents or if the non res iden t 's payment serves to finance direct inve s tment in Au s t r ia, the purchase of Austrian securi- ties in Au s t r ia, or the purchase of real estate in Austria. Ba lances may be f ree ly converted in to any foreign cur- rency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked and Interim Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses permit their use for many paymen ts for current and some capital transac t ions. The t rans fer abroad of f u n ds in Blocked and Interim Accounts is subject to an individual license. In most cases licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Balances in Blocked Accounts exceed by far those in In ter im Accounts. Non res iden ts may also m a i n t a in nonres ident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts, and subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported f rom any coun try without quantita- tive restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction. The liberalization depends on the group of countries f rom wh ich they are impor ted; for such liber- alized goods, licenses are issued by the customs at the 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA t ime of clearance.2 Nearly all imports from GATT coun t r ie s, th e ir assoc ia ted te r r i to r ies, and o ther coun- tries 3 are l ibera l ized. M any nonag r icu l tu ral imports are adm i t ted under an a u t om a t ic licensing procedure when o r ig in a t ing in Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, H u n g a r y, Po l and, or R om a n i a. Nonliberalized impor ts may be ob ta ined und er vari- ous procedures, n am e l y, s ta te t r a d i n g, global quotas, b i la teral quotas, d i s c r e t ion a ry l icen s ing, and compen- sation ( b a r t e r ). State t r a d i ng covers tobacco in any f o rm and sa l t. G lobal quo t as a p p ly to spec if ied im p o r ts f r om OECD coun t r ies and a ll o ther GATT c o u n t r i e s, except Cuba, Czechos lovak ia, and J a p a n. D isc re t iona ry ind iv idu al l icen s ing is app l icab le to a ll o ther p r iva te impo r ts not covered by the procedures l is ted above. Licenses are u s u a l ly g ran ted if the impo r ts concerned do not adversely a f f e ct domes t ic i n d u s t r i e s; in m a ny cases, they a re issued in acco rdance w i th quo t as es tab l ished in b i la te ral t rade ag reemen t s. Import licenses may not be gran ted for goods imported under compensa t ion transac t ions, unless there is no other way of se t t l ing paymen ts; at presen t, t rade u n d er such a r r a n g em e n ts is neg l ig ib le. G ra ins, m i lk and bu t t e r, and cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter and products f rom these animals for human consump t ion, and certain fertilizers are imported in accordance w i th a special system of controls and regu- lations ma in ta ined und er Agr icu l tural Ma rke t ing Laws. In principle, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received trade licenses. For new importers there is a newcomers' quota, which is up to a max imum of 20 per cent of the corresponding global quota. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports f rom, and originating in, coun- tries with which Austria makes settlements in con- vertible currencies do not require exchange licenses.4 Paymen ts for impo r ts of goods not subject to import license f rom, or o r ig ina t ing in, coun tr ies with which Aus t r ia m a i n t a i ns b i la te ral paymen ts agreements (see 2 Goods liberalized for import f rom a given group of countries may be f r e e ly impo r ted f r om any coun t ry in the group, prov ided that the coun t ry of expo r ta t ion and the coun t ry of produc t ion of the goods invo lved are in the same g roup. 3 The full list is as follows: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Bang ladesh, Barbados, Be lg ium, Bo tswana, Brazil, B u rm a, B u r u n d i, Cameroon, Canada, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Chile, People's Republic of the Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark ( in c lud ing Faroe Is lands and G r e e n l a n d ), Dom in ican Republic, Ecuado r, Egyp t, Equ a to r i al G u i n e a, F i j i, F in land, France, Gabon, The Gamb ia, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Ha i t i, Iceland, Ind ia, Indones ia, I re land, Is rae l, I ta ly, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, K eny a, Khm er R e p u b l i c, Korea, K uw a i t, Lesotho, Lux embou rg, Malagasy Repub l ic, Ma law i, Ma lays ia, Ma ld ive Is lands, Mali, Malta, Mau r i tan ia, Maur i- t ius, Ne the r land s, New Zea land, N i c a r agu a, N ig e r, Nigeria, N o rw a y, P ak i s t an, Peru, Por tuga l, Qa tar, Rhodesia, Rw a n d a, Senegal, Sierra Leone, S ingapo re, Sou th A f r i c a, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaz i land, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, Sy r i an A r ab Repub l ic, Tanzan ia, Togo, Tonga, T r in idad and Tobago, Tun i s ia, Tu rkey, Uganda, U. S. S. R., Un i ted K ingdom, Un i ted States, Upper Volta, U r u g u a y, People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen, Yugo s lav ia, Zai're, and Zamb ia. 4 In a few instances, import licenses are granted only on condition that a b i la teral cu r rency is used for paymen t; in such cases, the neces- sary exchange license is issued at the same time. 46 foo tno te 1) r e q u i re exchange licenses, which a re g r a n t ed w i t h o ut r e s t r i c t i on if the p aym en ts a re made in t he a p p r o p r i a te b i l a t e r al c u r r e n c i e s; paymen ts f or l i c en s ed im p o r ts sh ipp ed f r om and o r ig ina t ing in one and the same b i l a t e r al c o u n t ry a re covered by a general p e rm i s s i o n. Payments for Invisibles W i th few excep t ions, res iden ts are permitted to con- c lude t r an s a c t ions i n v o l v i ng cu r rent invisibles w i th re s iden ts of coun t r ies t h at are members of the IMF or the OECD. Excep t ions comprise transac t ions concern- ing t ran spo r t, films, and in su rance. As to transactions in cu r rent inv is ib les that invo lve paymen ts to residents of o ther coun t r i e s, gene ral licenses cover the majority of these (e.g., f r e i g h t, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repa irs); for the r em a in ing transactions, ind iv idu al licenses are requ i red. The licenses are granted a f ter account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral p aym en ts a r rangemen ts and other considerations, such as the p r i n c i p le of rec ip roc i ty and ha rdsh ip cases. Paymen ts on account of generally authorized invisi- bles to non res iden ts may be made freely, provided that no cap i tal t r a n s f er is invo lved (to bilateral countries on ly th rough the appropr ia te b i la teral channel). Other p aym en ts abroad up to S 1,000 may be made freely and at any t im e. The r em a in ing paymen ts to "multilateral nonmember coun tr ies" and to b i la teral countries for inv is ib les requ i re special licenses. Residents t rave l ing to countries with which Austria makes se t t lemen ts in convertible currencies may buy exchange f r om au tho r ized banks or take up as short- term advance f rom nonres iden ts in multilateral coun- tries up to the equ iva lent of S 26,000 for each trip. Res iden ts may buy trave lers checks, etc., up to the equ iva lent of S 26,000 a t r ip f rom authorized banks in agreement currencies or local currencies for travel to b i la te ral coun tr ies. Should a resident require more for- eign exchange for trave l ing, the increase may be author- ized by the Na t ional Bank. In addition, Austrian resi- dents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transpor ta t ion. Persons leaving Aus t r ia may take w i th them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained f rom the competent ministry. Goods exported under compensation arrange- ments are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of rele- vant bilateral trade agreements and the fu lf i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 26,000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution must be declared. Export proceeds may either be sur- rendered or be deposited in accounts w i th authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments abroad. Deposits in bilateral c lea r ing currencies may be used in accordance with the terms of an ind iv idual or general paymen ts license. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom inv is ib les, if not surrendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared w i th in eight days f rom the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be depos- ited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing f rom exports. Per- sons entering Austria may br ing in Aus tr ian or foreign banknotes and coins without limit. Capital Purchases by nonresidents of Aus tr ian securities, shares or participations in Aus tr ian companies or firms, and Austrian real estate, are subject to individual approval by the Na t ional Bank .5 At present, direct investments by nonres iden ts norma l ly are permitted only when related to manu fac tu r ing or to the importa- tion and d i s t r ibu t ion of fore ign goods. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents requ ire pr ior approval by the National Bank and may be restricted. Thus, the granting of permissions for commercial credits to finance imports of consumer goods, especially passenger cars, is restricted. Loans from nonresident relatives to residents are in practice authorized f ree ly up to S 260,000 a borrower a year. The short-term fore ign assets and liabilities in converti- ble currencies of authorized banks are not subject to direct limitation, but any increase in their schilling liabilities to nonresidents over the level of August 13, 1971 is subject to the provisions of a gentlemen's agreement with the National Bank providing for the sterilization of 75 per cent of such increases. A num- ber of authorized banks are permitted to accept from abroad and to employ abroad funds in convertible cur- rencies for a period of up to five years. The Aus tr ian N a t ion al Bank permits the transfer abroad of ( 1) proceeds f rom the liquidation of various foreign investments in Au s t r ia (shares or par t ic ipa t ion in Aus t r ian enterprises, Aus tr ian securities, and real estate in Au s t r i a) and (2) repaymen ts by residents of foreign loans and credits. The t rans fer of funds owned by emigrants, and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inher- itances, and settlements under cer ta in agreements between heirs, are pe rm i t ted. Res iden ts may freely g rant 5 Overall sales to nonres iden ts of Aus tr ian securities dur ing November 1972-September 1973 are l im i ted to the amount of pur- chases f rom non res iden ts ( i n c l u d i ng redemp t ion and amor t iza t ion of fixed-interest secur i t ies) p lus a global quo ta of S 500 million. Further- more, the purchase by non res iden ts of specified types of Aus tr ian fixed-interest securities is not being permitted. AUSTRIA loans up to the e q u i v a l e nt of S 260,000 a res ident lender each year to non r e s id ent re la t ives. Res iden ts are a l lowed, for purposes of direct invest- men t, to acqu ire par t ic ipa t ion rights in fo re ign com- pan ies, associations, and o ther enterprises, and to estab- lish, acqu ire, or extend foreign agencies or ind iv idua l ly owned firms; earnings accruing f rom such investment may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acqu ire real estate abroad (provided that it is intended for the personal use of the buyer w i th in one y e a r ), to grant commercial or inves tment credits, to grant direct inves tment loans (provided that the resident can actu- ally exert in f luence on the management of the nonresi- dent en te rp r i se ), and, provided that the proceeds of the credit are not used w i th in Austria, to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude with nonresidents l i fe insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the three preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Residents are allowed to purchase f rom nonresidents, without restriction, foreign securities issued in "multi- lateral member countries" and registered on stock exchanges 6 and Austrian securities; for foreign securi- ties and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, w i th certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securi- ties listed on the Vienna stock exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in con- vertible currencies. Residents may sell foreign securities and Austrian external bonds to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited in accordance with the afore-mentioned provision with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewe lry and medal- lions, which are considered jewe l ry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The Aus tr ian National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined there in; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coins, except in transac t ions w i th mone tary authorities of 6 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents f rom nonresidents of securities of a participating na ture in wha tever legal fo rm (including shares) that are issued by fore ign investment f u n ds or by similar ins t i tu t ions of whatever k ind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Individual licenses are issued automatically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA o ther coun tr ies or w i th in terna t ional f inanc ial insti- tu t ions. The Bank has au thor ized credit ins t i tu t ions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Austria gold coins that are not legal tender on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers (including non- residents); the prices are based on those for coins and unm anu f a c tu r ed gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Aus tr ia and against payment in sch i l l ings, gold coins that are not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coins to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. Residents may hold gold in any form, inc lud ing bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Aus tr ia any gold coins that are not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; fur thermore, domestic t rad ing between residents in gold with a fine- ness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. W i th the excep- tion of coins, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition f rom residents of gold sub- ject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, den- tists, and jewelers; the M in t, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange among themselves gold in any fo rm. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes impo rt licenses for gold impo r ts (e.g., for gold shee ts), the license is e i t h er issued by the M i n i s t ry of Trade, Com- merce, and I n d u s t r y, w h i ch u s u a l ly g ran ts any license app l ied for by i n d u s t r i al users, or by the customs office concerned, w h i ch issues l icenses a u t om a t i c a l ly for cer- t a in gold impo r ts w i t h in i ts competence. Where this law does not r equ i re an im p o rt license for impo r ts (e.g., for the impo rt of gold b a r s ), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a l icense issued by the N a t i o n al Bank cover- ing the pu rchase of go ld; such licenses are issued a f ter cons ide ra t ion of the m e r i ts of each case. Exports of gold in any fo rm o ther th an j ew e l ry r equ i re au tho r iza- t ion by the N a t i o n al B ank; the Bank has issued a general license p e rm i t t ing nonresident travelers to take out coins th at are not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a t r ip, and allowing resident trav- elers to "mu l t i l a t e r al member countries" to export such coins up to a va lue of S 1,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require impor t, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial impor ts of jewe l ry and of articles con t a in ing a m inor amount of gold, such as watches, are l ibera l ized, licenses be ing issued a u t om a t i c a l ly by the cu s tom s; com- me rc ial expo r ts of a n um b er of such a r t i c l e s, howeve r, must be l icensed by the M i n i s t ry of T rade, Commerce, and Indu s t ry. Changes during 1972 January I. F o l l ow i ng t he t e rm i n a t i on on Decem- ber 3 1, 1 9 71 of the b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag reemen ts w i th B u l g a r i a, Czechos lovak ia, and P o l a n d, s e t t l em e n ts w i th these c o u n t r i es h e n c e f o r th took p l a ce in conv e r t ib le cu r renc ie s. 48 January 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany hence- fo r th took place th rough c lear ing accounts denominated in sch i l l ings r a th er th an accounts denom ina ted in U. S. do l lars. January /. The N a t ion al Bank w i thdrew f rom direct fo re ign exchange t r an s a c t ions w i th the pub l ic; previ- ou s ly, i ts comme rc ial business w i th nonbanks had a l r e a dy been reduced to exchange transactions. January I. Re s t r ic t ions on goods of Japanese origin were f u r t h er reduced. January I. A new a n t i d um p i ng law came into force. January I. The v a l i d i ty of all ex is t ing un i la te ral tar iff reduc t ions and t empo r a ry exemp t ions f rom border tax ( in t rodu c ed u n d er the t empo r a ry price containment p rog ram that began in 1969) was extended for six months. (Sub sequent renewa ls ca r r ied the program over i n to 1973 .) February /. The g en t l em en 's ag reement of August 18, 1971, wh ich aimed at p reven t ing domestic credit insti- tu t ions f r om im p o r t i ng l i q u i d i ty and called inter alia for in te re s t - f ree deposits w i th the N a t ion al Bank equal to 75 per cent of any increase over August 13, 1971 leve ls in banks' s ch i l l ing l iab i l i t ies to nonresidents, was ex tended u n t il J u ne 30, 1972. The borrow ing of for- eign c u r r e n cy f r om n o n r e s i d e n ts to cover exchange r i sks re la ted to export t ransac t ions now was excluded f r om the ag r e em en t. In conn e c t ion w i th the renewal, the c red it i n s t i t u t i o ns u n d e r t o ok to appeal to their large cus tomers not to bo r row abroad and the National Bank wou ld app rove c a p i t al expo r ts more l ibe ra l ly than before. February 4. Ag r e em ent in p r inc ip le was reached with Rom an ia to t e rm i n a te the b i la te ral paymen ts agreement in the near f u t u r e. In December, it was agreed to place se t t lemen ts on a c o n v e r t i b le cu r r en cy basis with e f fect f r om J u ly 1, 1973. March 16. The scope of the general license permit- t i ng b ank s, when ac t ing for the account of customers, to engage in f o rw a rd and swap transac t ions in converti- ble fo r e ign c u r r e n c i es for per iods of up to 12 months, was reduced. H e n c e f o r t h, the pe rm iss ion was restricted, w h e re the sale of fo r e ign cu r renc ies was involved, to c la ims of residents on non re s iden ts expressed in a fixed am o u nt of fo r e ign c u r r e n cy and r e su l t ing f rom a con- t r a ct e f f e c t i v e ly c o n c l u d ed and a l r e ady f u l f i l l ed by the r e s id en t. C o r r e s p o n d i n g l y, the N a t i o n al Bank's unde r- t a k i ng to g r a nt r e s id en ts a p p r o v a ls to t ake up credits and l o a ns in " m u l t i l a t e r al member coun t r ies" for the r e f i n a n c i ng of e x i s t i ng expo rt c l a ims was defined to cover o n ly the r e f i n a n c i ng of expo rt claims af ter fu l- f i l lment of the expo rt d e l i v e r y. As a resu l t, foreign c r ed i ts to cover ex ch ange r i sks on export contracts cou ld be t a k en up o n ly on d e l iv e ry of the goods. March 29. B a n ks we re g r a n t ed a gene ral license to e f f e ct f o rw a rd exchange t ran sac t ions in f ree ly converti- b le cu r r en c i es w i th a m a t u r i ty of up to 12 months, for the a c count of expo r te rs, to cover exchange risks result- : ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing f rom export c la ims; cover hence fo r th could again be obtained as soon as export contracts were signed. April 1. Genera l ized ta r i ff preferences on imports of specified indu s t r i al and ag r icu l tu ral p roduc ts f rom most developing coun t r ies went in to e f fec t. April 21. Exchange r isk cover was made ava i lab le by the Gove rnment for export t ransac t ions on which an export cred it gua ran tee was g ran ted by the Oester- reichische K o n t r o l l b a n k. The f a c i l i ty was available for all currencies quoted on the V i e n na Stock Exchange and for ma tu r i t ies f a l l i ng due at least one year a f t er the date of app l ica t ion. Exchange ra te losses of less than 2 per cent had to be bo rne by the exporter himself. The p r em ium, payab le in advance in year ly install- ments, was !/s of 1 per cent for each qua r ter of the duration of the export cred it guaran tee, computed on the amoun ts covered by the exchange r isk guarantee. The guaran tee n o rm a l ly was g iven in respect of the exchange ra te r u l i ng on the date of app l ica t ion. June 15. The g en t l em en 's ag reement of August 18, 1971 was ex tended u n t il December 31, 1972. It was also agreed th at the G o v e r nm e nt wou ld not borrow abroad in 1972 (bo r row ings of S 2.8 b i l l i on had been p l a n n e d ). The banks agreed to place abroad (or invest in 3 per cent N a t ion al Bank cash certificates) addi- tional funds to t a l ing S 1 .5 b i l l i on and to m a i n t a in these placements un t il the end of the year. June 15. P a r l i am e nt passed leg is la t ion to in troduce a value-added tax w i th e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1973. The general ra te wou ld be 16 per cen t. It wou ld replace the general 5l/2 per cent t u r n o v er tax. June 23. The exchange m a r k et was closed. It re- opened on J u ne 28. July 22. An i n d u s t r i al f r ee t r ade agreement w i th the EEC was s igned, to come i n to force on J a n u a ry 1, 1973. U n d er an i n t e r im ag reement signed on the same day, an adv an ce 30 per cent across-the-board t a r i ff cut for i n d u s t r i al p roduc ts came i n to e f fect on October 1, on wh ich da te a first t a r i ff cut of 5 per cent for the so-called s en s i t ive i tems also came i n to e f fec t. A global agreement and an i n t e r im ag r e em ent were also signed with the ECSC. September 15. It was announ c ed that the Federal G o v e r nm e nt w o u ld c o n t r i b u te to the c u r r e nt stabiliza- tion po l icy i n t er a l ia by a d v a n ce r e p a ym e nt of S 400 m i l l i on of f o r e i gn p u b l ic debt. September 21. The c r e d it i n s t i t u t i o ns agreed to pro- long for s ix mon ths t h e ir J u ne 15 u n d e r t a k i ng to hold abroad u n t il December 28, 1972 an a d d i t i o n al S 1 .5 b i l l i o n. (On J a n u a ry 16, 1973 t h is g en t l em en 's agree- ment was ex tended u n t il J u ne 30, 1973. The gentle- men's a g r e em e nt of A u g u st 18, 1 9 7 1, p r o v i d i ng for the s te r i l iza t ion of 75 per cent of the g row th in bank 's ex- te rnal l i a b i l i t i e s, was also ex tended on J a n u a ry 16, 1973, u n t il May 3 1, 1973. Bo th ag r e em en ts were on May 30, 1973 ex tended u n t il the end of 1973 .) October 9. A g e n t l em e n 's ag r e em ent was conc luded AUSTRIA between the Na t ional Bank and the domestic banks on the restriction of sales of domestic fixed-interest-bearing securities to non res iden ts. From September 30, 1972 un t il March 31, 1973, nonres iden ts could no longer purchase registered or negotiable fixed-interest-bearing securities, cash certificates, and med ium- term bonds issued by banks, nor certificates of those Austrian mu tual fund s, the secu r i ty assets of which consist of fixed-interest-bearing securities of domestic issuers. Other domestic fixed-interest-bearing securities denomi- na ted in sch i l l ings could be sold to nonresidents only up to the amount for which each credit institution repurchased such securities f rom nonresidents (plus redemp t ions and amo r t i z a t ion ); in addition, however, these securities could be sold to nonresidents up to a to tal of S 500 m i l l i on du r ing the period the agreement was in e f fec t, w i th subquo tas to be allocated to indi- vidual bank s. (These regu la t ions were subsequently extended u n t il September 30, 1973.) October 23. The f o l l ow i ng measures were announced. B u i l d i ng societies agreed with effect f rom November 1 to l im it cred it to non res iden ts for the purchase of land and dwe l l ings in Aus tr ia and to conc lude new savings con trac ts w i th fo re igne rs o n ly if the latter had been res iden ts for exchange con trol purposes for at least one year. O ther c red it in s t i tu t ions were to exercise restraint in such l end ing to fore igners. November 2. A t rade and paymen ts agreement with m a i n l a nd Ch ina was signed, wh ich provided for settle- m en ts on a s c h i l l i ng basis. The agreement came into effect on J u ne 1, 1973, when it replaced the agreement concluded on the Chamber of Commerce level. November 7. A new trade agreement for the period 1973 th rough 1977 was signed with Czechoslovakia. Au s t r ia wou ld app ly f u ll GATT l ibe ra l iza t ion of imports by the end of 1974. November / / .A n ew long - te rm t rade agreement with H u n g a ry was signed. A u s t r ia wou ld apply f u ll GATT l i b e r a l i z a t i on of impo r ts by the end of 1974. November 16. The Coun c il of Ministers decided on add i t ional s tab i l iza t ion measures. These included increased l ibe ra l iza t ion of impo r ts of indus t r ial products and au toma t ic l icen s ing of impo r ts of beef and pork. It was a n n o u n c ed that it appeared necessary to limit long - te rm bo r row ing abroad by nonb ank ing enterprises to the am o u n ts r equ i r ed for the repayment of existing debts. November 27. W i t h in the f r am ew o rk of a new stabi- l i z a t i on p r o g r am, the l i b e r a l i z a t i on of inw a rd capital mov em en ts was suspended u n t il May 31, 1973 and a n um b er of o t h er e x t e r n al measu res were taken, also to be e f f e c t i ve u n t il May 31, 1973. The ind iv idual app roval of the N a t i o n al B a nk was requ i red for vir- t u a l ly a ll t y p es of c ap i t al i n f l ows and t ransac t ions that cou ld lead to c ap i t al in f low s. These measures had the e f fect of r e s t r i c t i ng the p u r c h a se by non re s iden ts of a ll typ es of A u s t r i an securities, of sha res or participations in A u s t r i an compan ies or f i rm s, and A u s t r i an real 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA estate, and of the ex t en s ion by re s iden ts of mo r tgage c red i ts on dome s t ic real es ta te to non r e s id en ts (except when the loan proceeds we re to be used a b r o a d ). Fu r- th e rmo r e, the t a k i ng up by n o n b a nk re s iden ts of cred i ts and l o a ns in f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy (or s c h i l l i n gs f r om Free S ch i l l ing A c c o u n t s) f rom non res iden ts, for wh ich the p r ior app rov al of the N a t i o n al Bank is r e q u i r e d, was re s t r ic ted. Th is a pp l i ed p a r t i c u l a r ly b ut n ot e x c l u s i v e ly to ( 1) i n v e s tm e nt c red i ts f or p r o d u c i ng e n t e r p r i s e s; ( 2) im p o rt and expo rt f i n a n c e; (3) c a p i t al p rov ided to dome s t ic f i rms by t h e ir f o r e i gn p a r t n e rs or s tockho ld- ers; and (4) b o r r ow i ng by i n d i v i d u a ls f r om close re la- t ives abroad. In p rac t ice, howeve r, f a m i ly lo ans to resi- den ts we re au tho r i z ed f r e e l y. (On May 30, 1973 the suspens ion of the l ibe ra l iza- t ion of these cap i tal t r an s a c t ions was ex tended un t il the end of 1973; in add i t ion, the g ra tu i tous acqu is i t ion by nonres iden ts of domestic real estate was subjected to con tro l. W i th e f fect f rom J u ne 1, 1973 loans f rom non- res ident re la t ives were l ibe ra l ized again to the extent indicated in the section on Capital, above .) December 1. It was ag reed, w i t h in the f r am ew o rk of the s tab i l iza t ion p rog ram, that the banks would l im it the ir increase in l e n d i ng d u r i ng the 12 m o n t hs f r om November 30, 1972, to about 12 per cen t, to be spread as ev en ly as seasonal fac to rs p e rm i t t e d. To th is end, for the per iod December 1, 1972-May 3 1, 1973, the banks' l end ing ce i l ings u n d er the C red it Con t rol Agree- ment were lowered f rom 51 per cent to 37 per cent (o r, in the case of ce r ta in sma ll i n s t i t u t i o n s, f rom 49 per cent or less to 35 per cen t) of any increase in the ir l iab i l i t ies, w i th the proviso that bo th the proceeds received f rom and the loans made aga inst med ium - te rm notes were in c lud ed in c a l c u l a t i ng each b a n k 's l end ing c e i l i ng or assessing i ts a c tu al p e r fo rm an c e. In addition, re s t r ic t ions in regard to i n t e r im loans and to the wa i t ing period for o r d i n a ry loans were agreed with the building societies. It was a lso agreed that specialized finance houses and i n s t a l l m e nt c red it i n s t i t u t i o ns wou ld keep t h e ir in c r e a se in dom e s t ic l e n d i ng down to a max imum a n n u al r a te of 12 per cent f r om December 1972 to May 31, 1973, and t h at m em b e rs of the Association of A u s t r i an I n s u r a n ce Comp an i es wou ld not a l low the ir to t al of o u t s t a n d i ng l o a ns to re s iden ts to expand by mo re t h an 6 per cent in the s ix mon ths f rom Novem- ber 30, 1972. (On May 30, 1973, these measures were ex tended w i th m i n or m o d i f i c a t i o ns u n t il the end of 1973. A m a x im um a n n u al ra te of 12 per cent of the inc rea se in dom e s t ic l e n d i ng c o n t i n u ed to be the gen- e ral p r i n c i p l e. O n ly in cases w h e re the cred it ce i l ing was not s u f f i c i e nt to en su re the 12 per cent rate would the N a t i o n al B a nk to l e r a te the nonob se rvance of such c r ed it ce i l ing s .) December 5. The M i n i s t er of F i n a n ce reques ted pro- v i n c i al and c omm u n al a u t h o r i t i es to d i s con t inue the sale of l a nd to f o r e i gn n a t i o n a l s. December 10. It was agreed t h at the t r ade agreement w i th J a p an w o u ld be renewed w i t h o ut change for a n o t h er y e ar f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1973. December I I. T he M i n i s t ry of Commerce issued i n t e r n al i n s t r u c t i o ns p r o v i d i ng for an easing w i th effect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1973, of the app l ica t ion of the remain- ing q u a n t i t a t i ve r e s t r i c t ions on goods of Japanese origin. December 12. The G o v e r nm e nt announced that it wou ld i n t r o d u ce l eg i s l a t ion to enab le it to make the e q u i v a l e nt of S 1 b i l l i on av a i l ab le out of the monetary reserves for i n v e s tm e nt in i n t e r n a t i o n al development i n s t i t u t i o n s. 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN1 Exchange Rate System * The cu r rency of Bah ra in is the Bah ra in D inar, which is defined as e q u i v a l e nt to 1 .86621 g rams of fine gold per Bahra in d in a r. No par v a lue has yet been established for the Bah ra in d in a r. The B ah r a ini Currency Board quotes da i ly rates for sterling based on London rates for the U. S. dollar against s ter l ing. On December 29, 1972, the Cu r rency Board's buy ing and se l l ing rates for ster- ling were BD 1.035 and BD 1.025 per <£ stg. 1, respec- tively. In the ir dealings w i th the public, commercial banks are required to observe the Currency Board's rates, but they are authorized to charge up to BD 0.005 per <£ stg. 1, buy ing and selling. The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Currency Board's rates for sterling and the London market rates for the cur- rencies concerned against sterling. On December 30, 1972 the ir b u y i ng and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were BD 0.44375 and BD 0.435, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Board does not deal with the public. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control au tho r i ty in Bahrain. Bahrain is a member of the Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. The United Kingdom issues annually broad guidelines to the commercial banks concerning payments to nonresidents of the Sterling Area. Pay- ments of "unreasonable amounts" to destinations out- side the Sterling Area may be examined by the banks and /or the Currency Board on a discretionary basis. In practice, however, outward payments are not restricted. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. In practice, settlements with Sterling Area countries usually take place in sterling. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Bahrain maintained the gold parity of its currency unchanged. With effect f rom March 31, 1973 Bahra in established an initial par value of 1.86621 grams of fine gold per Bahrain dinar, corresponding to BD 0.476190 = SDR 1, and availed itself of wider margins. On March 20, 1973 Bahrain notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. 1 Bahrain became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 7. 1972. Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited, as are produc ts m a n u f a c t u r ed by fore ign companies that have been blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of health, morals, or security; imports of cul- tured pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are required only for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, alcoholic beverages, and used buses. Exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports may be obtained freely. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds f rom invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatri- ated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but no payments may be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Profits f rom foreign investments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely. Gold Residents may freely and without a license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely per- mitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 per cent customs duty but gold ingots are exempt. Changes during 1972 June 23. Bahrain ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 26. The gold parity of the Bahrain dinar was maintained and the currency was unpegged f rom ster- ling, for which previously a fixed relationship of BD 1 = £0.875 had been observed. The Currency Board hence- for th quoted daily buying and selling rates for sterling based on sterling-U. S. dollar rates in London. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at BD 1 = US$2.28. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH ' Exchange Rate System * No par va lue for the Bangladesh currency, the Taka, has been established with the Fund. The official ex- change rate is T 18.9677 = <£ stg. 1, which at the end of 1972 corresponded to about T 8.02 = US$1. The exchange rates for currencies other than sterling and the Indian rupee are based on the London market rates for the currencies concerned. On December 31, 1972, the spot buying and selling rates of the Bangla- desh Bank (the central b a n k) vis-a-vis authorized dealers were T 18.7501 per <£ stg. 1 and T 18.8501 per <£ stg. 1, respectively. On December 31, 1972, the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of au- thorized dealers were T 18.7143 per <£ stg. 1 and T 18.8857 per <£ stg. 1, respectively. On the same date, the central bank's spot buying and selling rates for the Indian rupee were T 100 and T 100.05, respectively, per Rs 100, and the corresponding rates of the commercial banks were T 99.95 and T 100.10 per Rs 100. A buying rate of T 30 per <£ stg. 1 is applicable to certain inward remittances made to their dependent relatives by Bang- ladesh nationals working abroad and not being paid out of Bangladesh resources. The forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases of ster- ling. Forward facilities at authorized banks are available only for sterling export proceeds. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The three foreign and six domestic commercial banks have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized bank s ). The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Trade and Commerce is responsible for the issuance of import and export licenses. Certain trade transactions are conducted through state trading agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) and the Jute Export Corporation. Prescription of Currency Bangladesh is a member of the Sterling Area, al- though it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Settle- ments with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with countries w i th which Bangladesh has bilateral paymen ts ag reemen t s2 must be effected through clearing accounts specified in the agreements. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the pa r i ty relationship for sterling was ma in ta ined unchanged at T 18.9677 = £ stg. 1 and the taka continued to float w i th s te r l ing. 1 Bangladesh became a member of the In te rna t ional Mone tary Fund on Augu st 17, 1972. 3 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Hunga ry, Ind ia, Po land, Roman ia, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. A similar agreement with Eastern Ge rmany came into force on February 12, 1973. W i th e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1973, a special clearing a r rangement w i th Ind ia was added for t ravel between Bangladesh and that coun t ry. 52 Settlements in respect of trade with Burma also are made through a special account. As regards other coun- tries, settlements normally take place in sterling and other convertible currencies or through Nonresident Taka Accounts. Payments for imports must be made to the country of origin of the goods (a) in takas for credit to an account held by a resident of that country; (b) in pounds sterling for credit to an account held by a resident of that coun try; (c) in the local currency of that country; or (d) in any other currency specified by the exchange control authorities. Export proceeds must be received in convertible foreign exchange,3 in takas from a Nonresident Taka Account, or, provided such funds were generated from the conversion of inward remittances made since December 17, 1971, f rom bal- ances in the taka accounts of resident foreign companies being maintained with authorized dealers. All settlements with Pakistan, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resi- dent in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is permanently residing.4 Specified debit and credit entries to nonresident ac- counts may be made by authorized dealers without prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank dur ing the absence of the account holder f rom Bangladesh. Specified other debits and credits may be made freely irrespective of whether the account holder resides in Bangladesh. Cer- tain other debits and credits may be made without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but subject to reporting ex post. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission s taffs, and international organizations function- ing in Bangladesh and their employees are allowed to ma in ta in a separate type of account, Special Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with receipts of inward remittances in convertible for- eign exchange, and may be debited freely and at any time for remittances abroad in convertible currencies and for transfers to Nonconvertible Taka Accounts. T rans fe rs between Special Convertible Taka Accounts are freely perm i t ted. All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. New nonres ident accounts may be opened only with the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. 3 The fo l low ing are considered convertible foreign cu r renc ies: U .S. dollars, deu tsche m a r k, pounds s ter l ing, Japanese yen, French francs, and Swiss f rancs. 4 The accounts of the United Nations and its organizations, however, are trea ted as resident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. A high proportion of total imports consists of aid imports. Imports financed f rom Bangladesh's own resources are licensed w i th in the framework of a semi- annual import policy (import budg e t ). Under the im- port policy for the "shipping" period, July-December 1972, items permissible for import were classified into three broad categories: ( 1) consumer goods and raw materials permitted to be imported by "commercial importers," including public sector agencies; (2) raw materials and packing materials permitted to be im- ported by "industrial consumers" recognized as such under an entitlement system; and ( 3) items permitted to be imported exclusively by the TCB or jointly by the TCB and private sector importers. The list of commod- ities that could be imported under this import policy comprised some 146 items; no provision was made for commercial impor ts of any other goods, whose importa- tion, therefore, was de facto prohibited unless financed by foreign aid. Imports f rom Pakistan, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. All impor ts require licenses. Single country licenses are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments arrangements and for most aid imports. Other import licenses are valid world-wide, except for Pakistan, Rho- desia, and South Africa. Licenses issued to commercial importers are valid for a period of six months f rom the date of issuance. There is a registry of commercial im- porters, and items they are permitted to import are spec- ified. Licenses are norma l ly issued to commercial im- porters for impor ta t ion of one item only, but where an importer is eligible to import more than one item, the total value of licenses could not exceed T 20,000 during the July-December 1972 "shipping" period; licenses issued under b i la teral trade or payments arrangements were not counted toward this limit. Licenses are not transferable, and when they expire are not normally revalidated except where, owing to circumstances be- yond the control of importers, the letter of credit re- quirement could not be met or shipping arrangements could not be made. Irrevocable letters of credit must be opened w i th in three mon ths f rom the date of issuance of licenses. Many impor ts are reserved for the TCB, including pe tro leum, certain chemical and metal prod- ucts, cotton textiles and yarn, and woolen fabrics. In addition, the impo r ta t ion of a numb er of items is re- served exclusively to other pub l ic sector agencies; these include a i rp lane parts, t rucks, fire engines, bus and truck chassis, coal and coke, cinematographic films, cer- tain cotton textiles, edible oil, fertilizers, insecticides, sugar, and wood and t imber. There are limited facilities outside the impo rt program for m inor impor ts by speci- fied end-users, such as hospitals and educational or technical institutions. The licensing of imports of specified raw materials BANGLADESH and packing materials by industrial consumers is gov- erned by an entitlement system, based on the require- ments for various industries dur ing each "shipping" period as established by the Director-General of Indus- tries. Firms in these industrial sectors are given an entitlement for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and licenses are issued at ratios of 10, 25, 50, or 100 per cent of the entitlement. Sepa- rately, industrial consumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against licenses issued to industrial consumers must be used in the indus t ry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Under a raw material replenishment scheme aimed at encouraging industrial exports, industries engaged in export business, or with export potential, may receive licenses in excess of their normal entitlement for the importation of their raw material requirements, on the basis of their export performance. Licenses issued under the scheme have to be claimed within six months of the realization of the export proceeds and are not transfer- able. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or cap i tal goods. Dur ing the January-June 1972 shipping period, certain importers (mainly the TCB) were, as a special facility, allowed to import on credit terms of six months to one year. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with authorized trade transactions generally are not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. Little foreign exchange is provided for tourist travel. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel and medical treatment abroad are considered on an ind iv idual basis; as a rule, the amount granted is £ stg. 75 for two weeks of business travel, and about <£ stg. 400 for medical treatment. Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before mak ing remittances abroad for f am i ly maintenance pur- poses; such approval is usually granted for 50 per cent of wages or salaries (net of tax) if the terms of employ- ment have been approved. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to T 150 into convertible foreign currencies. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks up to the amount of any travel a l loca t ion they have been gran ted. Bangladesh na t iona ls may take out T 20 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Pak is tan, Rhodes ia, and South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. The Bangladesh J u te Export Corporation has a monopoly over the export of raw ju t e. The pro- ceeds f rom exports of j u te goods and tea must be received w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipmen t, those f rom exports of per ishab le goods to Ind ia w i th in two mon ths of sh ipmen t, and those f rom other exports w i th in four months of shipment. Proceeds front Invisibles All proceeds f rom inv is ib les must be surrendered. Rem i t tances in conver t ib le currencies made to their dependent relatives by Bangladesh na t iona ls work ing abroad and not rece iv ing payment out of Bangladesh resources are accorded a p rem ium resu l t ing in an effec- tive buying rate of T 30 per <£ stg. 1. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. Foreign currency travelers checks and for- eign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers w i thout l im i t, prov ided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. Capital5 All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval, which generally is given. All Bangla- desh nationals who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their pos- session, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer w i th in one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more th an six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangla- desh or services rendered, within one month of the date of acquisition. 5 An Indus tr ial Investment Policy was announced on J anu a ry 8, 1973. Joint ven tu res with foreign investors would be permitted only with the participation of the Government, and the foreign share of the equ i ty could not exceed 49 per cent. Foreign investors were ex- pected to provide the entire amount of the fore ign exchange com- ponent of the pro ject concerned. If this component exceeded 49 per cent of the equ i ty, the excess foreign exchange had to be provided by the fore ign investor th rough loans, on terms and conditions to be mu tua l ly negotiated. Foreign par t ic ipa t ion in the pr iva te sector (de- nned as pr iva te enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding T 2.5 million, although expansion of assets up to T 3.5 million through reinvestment of profits was a l lowed ), however, was restricted to the provision of licenses and patents only, w i thout equ i ty participation. All foreign investments required approval by the Investment Board. Under this policy, dividends on fore ign capital could be remitted net of tax. Also remittable were 50 per cent of the net salary of foreign nationals, up to a max imum of £150 a month a person, and savings f rom earnings, retirement benefits, and personal assets on termination of services or re t iremen t. Repatriation of foreign capital, inc lud ing capital gains and profits reinvested within the first ten years f rom the commencement of production, could take place over a per- iod of ten years. Government guarantees against nationalization were provided for a period of ten years, and in the event of nationaliza- tion a f ter ten years, compensation would be paid on a fa ir and equitable basis. 54 There is no res t r ic t ion on the impor ta t ion of securi- ties in to Bangladesh, but the t rans fer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bang ladesh requires approva l. This r equ i r em ent app l ies to a ll Bangladesh secur i t ies, whe ther held by persons res ident in Bangla- desh or ou t s ide Bang ladesh, and to all fo re ign securities held by persons resident in Bangladesh. Approval is given if securities are re turned to Bangladesh within a specified period, or if they are sold, if the proceeds are repatriated to Bang ladesh. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and ove rd ra f ts f rom overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a t ime, pro- vided that they are ob ta ined on ly in the cu r rency of the coun t ry or mon e t a ry area in wh ich the overseas bank branch or correspondent is s i tua ted. Borrowing by nonres iden t-owned or nonresident- controlled enterprises f rom comme rc ial b anks in Bang- ladesh, as well as f r om abroad, requ ires approval, and loans in local cu r rency against overseas guaran tees or collateral outside Bangladesh by au thor ized dealers require approval. Au thor ized dealers may, however, approve loans, ove rd ra f ts, or cred it fac i l i t ies against goods in tended for export from Bangladesh to compa- nies controlled by persons resident outside Bangladesh. Authorized dealers must ob ta in approval before m a k i ng any long-term loans in fore ign currenc ies to residents or nonresidents, whe ther secured or unsecured. They are not normally pe rm i t ted to hold short-term foreign assets other th an small working balances. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any form is prohibited w i thout special permission, which is not normally granted. There are no restrictions on the inter- nal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver orna- ments ( inc lud ing coins) and jewe lry, but there is a pro- hibition on the ho ld ing of gold and silver in any other form except by licensed indus tr ia l is ts or dentists. Changes during 1972 January 1. A new currency u n i t, the taka, was issued to replace the Pak is tani rupee, the par va lue of which was PRs 4.76190 = US$1. The new exchange par i ty was established at T 18.9677 = <£ stg. 1 (correspond- ing at the time to T 7.2793 = US$1). A un i ta ry exchange rate system replaced the bonus voucher sys- tem, under which several effective exchange rates were considerably more depreciated than the par value. January L The Bangladesh Bank began operations as the central bank. January 1. Export taxes of T 30 a bale on long ju te and T 15 a bale on j u te cuttings were introduced. They were abolished on November 15. January 2. The central bank quoted fixed buy ing and selling rates for spot sterling, to commercial banks only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution It also announced fo rwa rd b u y i ng and selling rates for sterling. January 3. The p roh ib i t ion on expo r ts of raw ju te to Ind ia was revoked. February 8. A b i l a t e r al t rade and paymen ts agree- ment w i th the U. S. S. R. was signed; it came into effect immed ia te ly. A second agreement was signed on Novem- ber 29. February 11. Bang ladesh was listed as a separa te Scheduled Te r r i to ry und er the Un i ted K ingdom 's exchange con trol regu la t ions. February 15. A b i l a t e r al t rade and paymen ts agree- ment w i th Czechos lovak ia was signed; it came into effect imm e d i a t e l y. A second agreement was signed on December 22. February 16. A b i la te ral t rade and paymen ts agree- ment w i th Po land was signed; it came in to e f fect imme- diately. March 3. A b i la te ral t rade and paymen ts agreement w i th Bu lg a r ia was s igned; it came into effect immed i- ately. A second ag reement was signed on December 19. March 6. The cen t ral bank quoted fixed buy ing and selling ra tes for the Ind ian rupee, to commercial banks only. March 19. A b i la te ral trade and paymen ts agreement with Hungary was signed; it came into effect immedi- ately. March 23. A b i la teral trade agreement w i th Burma was signed. Trade was to be conducted on a self- ba lanc ing basis; settlements were to be effected through an account denom ina ted in sterling and held at the People's Bank of the Union of Bu rma. The agreement came in to effect immediately. March 27. Domestic banks and insurance companies were na t iona l ized, as were shortly the rea f ter the ju te, cotton, and sugar indus tr ies, most in land water trans- port, and most es tab l ishmen ts in other sectors when their assets exceeded T 1.5 million. March 28. A bilateral trade and paymen ts agreement w i th India was signed; it came into effect immediately. (With effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1973, a special clearing arrangement for travel between the two countries was added .) April 5. A b i la teral trade and payments agreement w i th Yugoslavia was signed; it came into effect imme- diately. April 20. The impo rt policy for the first half of 1972 was announced. The import of all luxu ry goods was banned. May 30. The Bangladesh Ju te Export Corporation was established. June 14. The Trading Corporation of Bangladesh was established. June 23. Bangladesh ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory of the Sterling Area. BANGLADESH June 23. The cen t ral b ank suspended its s te r l ing quo- ta t ions. June 30. Following the floating of s ter l ing, the pa r i ty re la t ionsh ip to s te r l ing was ma in ta ined at T 18.9677 = <£ stg. 1. As a r e su l t, the taka began to dep rec ia te in te rms of the U. S. do l la r. The p a r i ty re la t ionsh ip w i th the I n d i an rupee, wh ich also floated w i th sterling, remained unchanged. July 1. The export of raw j u te was na t iona l ized. July 6. The cen tral b a nk quoted new, fixed b u y i ng and selling rates for spot s te r l ing. It resumed fo rw a rd purchases of s ter l ing, but its fo rwa rd sales of s ter l ing rema ined suspended. July 27. A p r em ium paymen ts scheme for ce r ta in personal inw a rd rem i t tances was in troduced for the period end ing June 30, 1973. The beneficiaries in Bangladesh of inwa rd remittances made in convertible currencies by Bang ladesh na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad could convert the fo re ign currency at T 30 per <£ stg. 1. August 1. The import policy for the second ha lf of 1972 was announced. There was some re laxa t ion of import restrictions, but impo r ts of consumer goods remained severely restricted. Incentives to export indus- tries were provided th rough a Raw Ma ter ia ls Replenish- ment Scheme. August 4. A bilateral trade and paymen ts agreement with Romania was signed; it came into effect imme- diately. August 8. Insurance companies were nationalized. October 10. Border trade w i th India was suspended. October 31. The Central Bank Presidential Order specified the func t ions of the Bangladesh Bank. These included the management of the official exchange reserves and the administration of exchange control. December 15. A bilateral trade and paymen ts agree- ment with Egypt was signed; it came into effect imme- diately. December 16. Bangladesh became a con trac t ing par ty to the GATT. December 31. The import policy for the first half of 1973 was announced. The public sector was allocated 70 per cent of total imports. The ban on luxu ry imports was continued. The amount of licenses ava i lab le to individual commercial importers was increased from T 20,000 to T 35,000. Import licenses for raw mate- rials and spare parts were to be issued to pharmaceuti- cal industries at 200 per cent of their entitlement and to all other industries at 100 per cent of their entitle- ment. Export incentives were to be gran ted by the issue of additional licenses to export industries accord- ing to their performance. Repeat licenses would be issued to importers of such essential items as milk, food, and medicines. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per East Caribbean Dollar, corresponding to EC$2 = SDR 1 or EC$ 1.84211 = US$1, but no exchange transactions take place at the par value. Barbados is a participant in the East Caribbean Currency Agreement of 1965, which established the East Caribbean Currency Authority to issue and manage a common currency in its member countries.1 The Currency Authority maintains a fixed relationship for the East Caribbean dollar with sterling at the rate of EC$4.80 = £1. Consequently, all exchange transactions other than those in sterling or currencies linked to sterling take place at fluctuating rates. The East Caribbean Currency Authority is authorized to levy a commission charge of up to 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers of sterling. On Decem- ber 31, 1972 the commission charges in transactions with authorized banks were %6 of 1 per cent on inward transfers and % of 1 per cent on outward transfers. The authorized banks apply the same commission charges in dealings in sterling w i th their customers, although they may levy an additional charge on mail transfers and draf ts. The East Caribbean Currency Authority ma in ta ins fixed buying and selling rates at % of 1 per cent either side of parity for the Guyana dollar, the Jamaica dollar, and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar. The authorized banks apply commission charges for these currencies of % of 1 per cent, buy ing and selling. Exchange rates for convertible non-Sterling Area currencies are based on the daily buy ing and selling rates in the London market. On December 30, 1972, the banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were based on EC$200.60 per US$100. Under an arrangement w i th the central banks of Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty purchases at par notes and coins issued by the monetary authorities of the countries con- cerned and repatriates the currency in return for reci- procity of treatment with respect to collections of East Caribbean dollars. The cu r rency of Guyana is purchased at EC$0.9211 per Guy ana dollar. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries outside the Sterling Area. It is administered by the Minister of Finance, operating as the Exchange Control Authority, wh ich delegates to au thor ized dealers the au thor i ty to approve no rmal import paymen ts and the allocation of foreign exchange for cer ta in other cu r rent payments. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an author- * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the East Caribbean dollar continued to float w i th sterling. 1 O ther p a r t i c ip a t ing governmen ts are An t igua, Dom in ica, G renada, Mon tserra t, St. K i t ts-Nev is-Angu i l la, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. 56 ized dealer. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Trade, Indus try, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Barbados has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area 2 may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any non-Sterling Area currency or by crediting an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Receipts from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be received to the debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of other Sterling Area countries may main- tain accounts in East Caribbean dollars in Barbados and no distinction is made between these accounts and accounts maintained in East Caribbean dollars by resi- dents of Barbados. With the permission of the Exchange Control Authority, authorized banks may ma in ta in Foreign Currency Accounts and External Accounts in the names of residents of non-Sterling Area countries. Residents of the Sterling Area may also hold Foreign Cur- rency Accounts. Permission to open Foreign Currency Accounts, which are ma in ta ined in non-Sterling Area currencies, is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and paymen ts may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, subject to the conditions of approval at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened, w i th exchange control approval, for nonres iden ts of the Sterling Area and are ma in ta ined in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited w i th proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currencies or gold and w i th t ran s fe rs from other Exter- nal Accounts. O ther credits require ind iv idual approval. They may be debited for payments to other residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and, in some cases, for the purchase of non- Sterling Area currencies. Other debits require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act, 1967 empowers the Exchange Control Au tho r i ty to require certain pay- men ts in favor of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area wh ich are ineligible for t rans fer to be - The Exchange Con trol Act, 1967 defines the Sterling Area as exc lud ing South A f r ica. Foreign currencies comprise all non-Sterling A rea currenc ies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution credited to Blocked Accounts. Amoun ts s tand ing to the credit of Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. However, in view of the United Kingdom's decision in 1967 to dispense w i th Blocked Accounts, these provisions of the act have not been invoked. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited and imports originating in mainland China, the CMEA countries, Nor th Korea, Japan, and Portugal require ind iv idual licenses. Imports from Japan are kept under review in order to prevent a widening of the trade imbalance with that country and to protect certain local industries. Certain imports are prohibited or are subject to discretionary licensing irrespective of origin. These include passenger automobiles and goods which compete with domestic products, such as coconut oil, milk, live poultry, sugar, beverages, and certain items of clothing. Special licensing arrangements apply to goods originating in other countries of the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA), of which Bar- bados is a member. Imports affected by these require- ments include pork, eggs, fru i ts, vegetables, and nuts, all of which are licensed to conform to the terms of the protocol laying down the agricultural marketing arrangements for the Caribbean Free Trade Agreement. Individual licenses are required for imports of commod- ities subject to international commodity agreements, including wheat, rice (which is imported only from Guyana in terms of the Barbados-Guyana Rice Agree- men t ), and commodities subject to the provisions of the Oil and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Guyana, Grenada, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago, and Dominica. All imports not referred to previously are on open general license. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (relevant invoices or customs wa r ran t s) to authorized dealers. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in countries out- side the Sterling Area require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions invo lv ing residents of Rhodesia, the fo l low ing applies. Payments for all commercial t ransac t ions are permitted free ly when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain paymen ts of a personal na tu re. These include foreign travel, for which up to EC$ 1,000 a person may be allocated for each travel year, expenses of education abroad (EC$2,500 a person a year a f ter the first y e a r ), and subscriptions to newspapers, magazines, etc. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional BARBADOS amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital seems to be involved. Residents of Barbados and other Sterling Area coun- tries may take out unlimited amounts in travelers checks denominated in East Caribbean dollars or other Sterling Area currencies for encashment only in Sterling Area countries. Residents traveling to destinations outside the Sterling Area may take out notes and coins up to the value of EC$100 in the currencies of Sterling Area countries and EC$ 1,000 in the currencies of non-Sterling Area countries. Residents of non-Sterling Area countries may take out any notes and coins which they brought into Barbados. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited and licenses are required for the export of goods to mainland China, the CMEA countries, North Korea, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any country; these goods include rice, sugar, and turtle shells. Cer- tain goods, including rum, molasses, and confectionery, require licenses when exported to non-Sterling Area countries, and licenses are also required for the export of specified goods to any country that is not a member of the Caribbean Free Trade Association. These goods include coconuts and coconut oil, lard, and margarine. All other goods may be exported without license. Exports are supervised by the Exchange Control Authority to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered w i th in six months f rom the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles received in foreign cur- rencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may bring in free ly notes and coins denominated in East Caribbean dollars, other Sterling Area currencies, or non-Sterling Area currencies. Resi- dent travelers are required to sell their holdings of for- eign currencies to an authorized dealer upon re turn to Barbados. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval. Direct investments in non-Sterling Area countries by residents of Barbados require exchange control approval; when permission is g ran ted, such inves tmen ts must be channeled th rough the investment currency ma rket in the United Kingdom. The purchase by residents of Barbados of non-Sterling Area securities and of real estate for pr iva te purposes outside the Sterling Area is not normally permitted. When permission is granted, however, the purchase of non-Sterling Area securities 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS or of real estate situated outside the Sterling Area must be f inanced th rough the investment currency ma rket in the Un i ted Kingdom. Certificates of title to non-S ter l ing A rea securities held by residents of Bar- bados must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in Barbados and ea rn ings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an au thor ized dealer. Personal c ap i t al t r a n s f e rs such as inh e r i t an c es to resi- den ts of non -S te r l ing Area coun tr ies requ i re exchange con t rol app rova l, w h i ch is g ran ted subject to the pay- ment of estate and succession du t ies. Dowries in the f o rm of s e t t l em en t s, and cash g i f ts up to EC$500 a year may be t ran s fe r red, w i th exchange control app rova l, to res iden ts of coun t r ies ou ts ide the Sterling Area. Direct inv e s tm ent in Ba rbados by res iden ts of coun- tries ou ts ide the S te r l ing Area may be made w i th exchange con trol app rova l. The r em i t t a n ce of e a rn ings on, and l iqu id a t ion proceeds f r om, such inve s tment is pe rm i t ted, sub ject to the subm iss ion of documen ta ry ev idence t h at the amount to be rem i t ted is accura te, to the d ischa rge of any l i ab i l i t i es related to the invest- m en t, and to the r e g i s t r a t i on of the o r ig inal inve s tment w i th the Exchange Con trol Au tho r i ty. The issuance and t r an s f er to residents of countries ou t s ide the S t e r l ing Area of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is f ree ly g iven on cond i t ion that an adequa te amount of non -S te r l ing Area cu r rency is b rought in for the ir purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securi- ties may be rem i t ted when it is established that the o r ig inal inve s tment was f in an c ed f rom non-Sterling Area currency sources. Res iden ts of coun tr ies ou ts ide the Sterling Area may acquire in Barbados real estate for p r iva te purposes w i th f u n ds f rom non-Sterling Area cur- rency sources or a comb ina t ion of local and non-Sterling Area currency sources. Proceeds from the realization of such inves tmen ts equ iva lent to the amount of non- Sterling Area cu r rency b rought in may be repa tr ia ted freely. Cap i tal sums realized in excess of th is amount may be repa t r ia ted f ree ly on the basis of a ra te of re tu rn on the or ig inal fo re ign inves tmen t, calculated at the fo l low ing ra tes: for the last five years at 8 per cent per a n n um; for the f ive years immed ia te ly preced ing the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preced- ing the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amoun ts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of EC$24,000 a year. Gold Residents who are pr iva te persons are perm i t ted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes on ly. O the rw ise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be su r rende red to an au tho r ized dealer un l e ss exchange con t rol app roval is ob ta ined for i ts re ten t ion. Residents o ther t h an the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i e s, au tho r ized dealers, and i n d u s t r i al users are not pe rm i t ted to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm o ther t h an j ew e l ry or coins for n um i sm a t ic purposes. Impo r ts and exports of gold by res iden ts are pe rm i t ted for i n d u s t r i al purposes and are exemp ted f rom cus toms du t i e s, charges, and other taxes. Licenses to impo rt and export gold are issued by the M i n i s t ry of Trade, I n d u s t r y, and Commerce. Off ic ial in s t i tu t ions in Barbados do not pu rchase gold. Changes during 1972 May 2. A cen tral bank was established. It would commence operations in 1973. June 6. Customs du t ies were increased on a number of commodities when imported f rom non-CARIFTA countries. June 23. Barbados ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Transactions in foreign exchange were suspended. They were resumed on June 27. June 27. It was announced that the fixed relationship between the East Caribbean do l lar and sterling would be maintained unchanged at E C $ 4 . 8 0 = < £ 1. As a result, the East Caribbean dollar began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective pa r i ty relation- ship for wh ich had been EC$1.84211 = US$1. June 27. No changes in exchange control were made. Both the system of nonresident accounts and the pre- scription of currency a r rangemen ts were ma in ta ined unchanged. Export proceeds received in Sterling Area currencies remained exempt from surrender require- ments. October 17. The Miscellaneous Controls (General Open Import License) Regulations, 1972 added a num- ber of items, mostly foods tuffs and m a n u f a c t u r ed goods (including automobiles), to the list of commodities sub- ject to ind iv idual import license irrespective of origin. Several commodities, inc lud ing coconut oil, were also added to the list of those requ ir ing an ind iv idual license when imported from CARIFTA countries. November 13. The Customs (Ra tes of Exchange) Notice 1972, No. 3 came into effect, which specified new selling rates for sight d ra f ts in respect of imports as follows: EC$2.097 per Canadian dollar, EC$2.067 per U .S. dollar, and EC$0.921 per Guyana dollar. Rates for other currencies continued to be those quoted from time to time by the commercial banks. 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Rate System * The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembou rg Franc. Belgium and Luxembou rg have established central rates of BF /Lux F 44.8159 = US$1, corresponding to BF/Lux F 48.6572 = SDR 1, and avail themselves of wider margins, except in respect of the Ne ther lands guilder. There are two spot exchange marke ts — the official (reglemente or r e g u l a t e d) and the f ree; these markets are separated and fore ign currency acquired in one may not be sold in the other. Most cu r rent trans- actions are settled in the official ma rket and most capi- tal transactions in the free. In the official exchange marke t, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transac t ions permitted in that market.1 Margins of approximately 214 per cent either side of the cen t ral ra te or the cross-parity are maintained in this ma rket for the U. S. dollar, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, the Italian lira, and the Norweg ian krone. The spot exchange rate for the U. S. dollar ( the in terven t ion currency notified to the Fund on December 27, 1971) fluctuates w i th in o f f ic ial limits of BF 43.8075 buy ing, and BF 45.8250 selling, per US$1. The rates for most of the convertible currencies not mentioned above fluc- tuate between l im i ts which result from comb in ing the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Belgium-Luxembourg and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. The exchange rate for the Ne the r lands guilder in the official market is maintained w i th in marg ins of 1V2 per cent either side of the cross-parity of f. 1 = BF 13.812 or BF 100 = f. 7.24. The rate for the zaire fluctuates between limits of 21A per cent either side of BF 89.6318 (US$2 ), i.e., between BF 87.6150 buying, and BF 91.6500 selling, per Z 1. Most exchange transactions are settled through the official market. For all inward and outward pay- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Belgium and Luxembourg ma in ta ined the ir central rates in te rms of gold and SDKs. The effective pa r i ty relation- ship for the U. S. dollar became BF /Lux F 40.3344 - US$1, corre- sponding to BF/Lux F 48.6572 = SDR 1. The new in terven t ion limits for the U .S. dollar were BF 39.4265 buy ing, and BF 41.2420 selling, per US$1. With e f fect f rom March 19, 1973, Belgium and Luxembourg maintained max imum ma rg ins of 2V4 per cent either side of the cross- parity in exchange transactions in the official market between their own currencies and the Dan ish krone, the deu tsche mark, the French franc, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona; margins of up to IVi per cent e i ther side of the cross-parity continued to be observed for the Ne the r lands gu i lder. No announced margins would be main- tained for other currencies. 1 The curencies dealt with in the off ic ial ma rket are Aus t r ian schil- lings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish markkaa, French f rancs (commerc ia l), Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible cur- rencies. Although Za i r ian cu r rency (the za i re) is officially quo ted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union does not permit the use of the zaire in settlements with countries other than Zaire, or the exchange of the za'ire for convertible Belgian francs or other convertible cur- rencies. The Japanese yen, although traded in the official marke t, is not officially quoted. ments in excess of BF 10 million through that market, supporting documen ts must be submitted to the Belgo- Luxembourg Exchange Institute (Institut Belgo- Luxembourgeois du Change or IBLC). In the free exchange market, all currencies (includ- ing domestic and foreign banknotes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On December 29, 1972, the free market rates between banks for the U .S. dollar were BF 44.34 buying, and BF 44.42 selling, per US$1. Depend ing on the category of p aym en ts and receipts, either one exchange market or the other must be used; in a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange ma rket in which conversion is to be effec ted. In the o f f ic ial ma rke t, au tho r ized b anks in Belgium- Luxembou rg may deal w i th other au thor ized banks and w i th non res iden ts in any of the conver t ib le currencies; howeve r, there are special regu la t ions for the zaire. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender con- vertible currencies in the official spot market un t il a fore ign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make fo rwa rd purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, pro- vided that the currencies thus acquired are used for the authorized settlement of obligations within five working days from delivery; exchange not used within that period must be resold in the official market. Profits result- ing from forward contracts not covering authorized inward or ou tward paymen ts through the official market must be given up to the Treasury. Any resident or non- resident, banks included, may deal in any currency in the free ma rke t. Exchange rates in the forward market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Belgium and Luxembourg fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembou rg ( t he Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Un ion —BLEU); the two countries cons t i tu te a single exchange con trol te r r i to ry in re la t ion to other coun tr ies. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Un ion is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange I n s t i t u t e. Exchange control powers for most paymen ts and t r an s f e rs are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935, revised with effect f rom August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of Janua ry 29, 1963, conferred on the Belgo-Luxembourg Adm in is tra- t ive Commission the au tho r i ty to license t rade transac- tions; this Commision determines import and export 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, through the appro- pr ia te exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appro- priate category of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided in to two groups: the bilateral countries 2 and the convertible area (all other countries). All inwa rd and ou tward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, indus- tr ial expenses (e.g., costs of p rocess ing ), and other commercial expenses, inc lud ing insurance; List B covers settlements of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, sub- scriptions, taxes, and public adm in is tra t ion payments; List C covers (1) adm in is tra t ion expenses, (2) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits, and ( 3) repatriation of cer ta in foreign long-term invest- ments and t ran s fe rs by em igran ts of foreign na t iona l i ty; List D covers g if ts, life insurance payments, fam i ly ma in tenance paymen ts, capital investments, liquidation of investments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembou rg nationality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of mer- chandise, p r iva te travel expenses (except when settled through t r av el agenc ies ), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible me thods of settlement for foreign payments are summarized in the accompanying table. In dealing w i th coun t r ies in the convertible area, trans- actions contained in Lists A and B must be settled through the official market (or, if made in Belgian and Luxembou rg f ranc s, th rough Convertible Accounts) and those contained in List D th rough the free market (or th rough F inanc ial A c coun t s ). As regards transac- tions in List C, outward payments for some of these (adm in i s t ra t ion expenses and investment earn ings) are channeled th rough the off ic ial ma rket (or Convertible Accoun ts ), wh i le outward payments for all others and all inward payments can be transferred through either SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET Outward Payments A, B, C(l), C(2) Convertible Convertible Official C(3) D A, B, C, D Convertible Convertible Bilateral Any Any Official or free Free A ,B C D A ,B C D Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Convertible Convertible Convertible Other Any Official Official or free Free Free Bilateral Convertible Official Bilateral B i la teral Convertible Other Any Official or free Free Free NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral 3 Convertible jConvertible J or Financial Financial Bilateral or Convertible 3 Bilateral or Convertible 3 Bilateral 3 2 The bilateral group countries are Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire. The BLEU is not a party, however, to any bilateral paymen ts agreements. 3 Bilateral Account of the country concerned. Settlements with Zaire may a l terna t ive ly be made by debit or credit to Convertible Accounts in zaires held with banks in Zaire. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — the official or free market (or through either Convertible or Financial Accounts). Transactions that may or must be settled through the free market may also be effected in domestic or foreign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, ind iv idual licenses are granted in order to allow t rans fe rs th rough the off ic ial market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct inves tment by en terpr ises and some capital t rans fe rs by individuals. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f r a nc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as fo l lows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and these accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.4 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents which either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a non- resident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Converti- ble Accounts other than mail-credit advances are sub- ject to authorization by the IBLC. Convertible Accounts may be held only in the form of sight accounts (demand deposits) and balances may not bear interest except for amounts originating from documentary credits estab- lished by banks resident in specified countries.5 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened 4 International organizations and foreign diplomatic representations established in the BLEU maintain Special Accounts, which are equiva- lent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the latter. 5 On March 1, 1973 the IBLC announced tha t, until fu r th er notice, banks could purchase foreign currency f rom nonresidents in the offiical market only insofar as the nonresident concerned was credited on a special account, a "transitory convertible account," opened with the bank making the purchase. Such accounts could be debited only for payments in favor of residents, subject to the existing rules for permitted payments to the debit of Convertible Accounts. These spe- cial accounts were abolished on March 16, 1973, when balances therein could be transferred to Convertible Accounts in Francs. Also on March 1, the IBLC instructed authorized banks to take the nec- essary steps with holders of Convertible Accounts to avoid any un- justified accumulation of holdings in these accounts and, where appro- priate, to require f rom the holders either the immed ia te utilization of any excess balances or permission to reconvert these in to foreign cur- rency; a l terna t ive ly, authorized banks were ins truc ted to obtain satis- factory explanations for the holding of such balances and to submit the documentation to the IBLC, which reserved the right e i ther to freeze any amounts for which no satisfactory exp lana t ion could be provided or to deduct any resulting exchange profit. With effect f rom April 1, 1973 banks established in Belgium agreed, at the request of the Belgian monetary authorities, to charge a special commission on all holdings of Belgian francs in Convertible Accounts in excess of a specified ceiling. The ceiling was equal to the daily average of hold- ings in the account concerned du r ing the fou r th qua r ter of 1972. The rate of the commission was set at 0.25 per cent weekly, to be calcu- lated on a daily basis and charged monthly. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG only for residents in convertible area countries,6 and they are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements which either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free ma rke t. Domestic banknotes and proceeds f rom the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium- Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited freely to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for re s iden ts of b i l a t e r al coun tr ies (see foo tno te 2), and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilat- e ral coun t r ies, and may be credited w i th proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, Rwanda, and Zai're. In practice, the authorities permit the con- version of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the official market. imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Indi- v idual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam,7 and (2) a number of imports from all other countries except Luxembourg.8 The commodities for which ind iv idual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricul- tural products and foods tuffs, and coal and kerosene. All other commodities, which constitute about 85 per cent of total imports, are free of license and quantita- tive restriction; only a simple form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declaration) is required when payment is made through an authorized bank. Many commodities subject to indi- vidual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products 6 Foreign d ip loma ts, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic rep- resentations accredited in the BLEU and by specified in te rna t ional organ iza t ions situated in the BLEU, i n d i v i d u a ls res id ing in Burund i, Rwanda, or Za i re, and BLEU nationals residing abroad temporarily for profess ional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resi- dent Accounts. '' Im p o rt licenses are issued freely for a large number of com- mod i t i es when o r i g i n a t i ng in and shipped from Bu lga r ia, Czechoslo- vak ia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Romania, and U. S. S R. 8 Most impo r ts in the last g roup do not requ ire an import license when imported f rom the Ne ther lands or f rom other EEC countries. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG covered by tbe Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are sub ject to va r iab le impo rt levies wh ich have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports from non-EEC coun- tries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Certain agricultural imports of non-Benelux EEC origin or originating in third countries are subject to compensa- tory levies. No exchange control documentation is required for impor ts not exceed ing BF 10,000 in va lue. The au tho r- ized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired until the import payment is due. If these requ i remen ts are not fu l f i l led, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control au tho r i ty for special permission. Prior examination of suppor t ing documents by the IBLC is required for paymen ts exceed ing BF 10 million, and exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or after the date of customs clearance. Payments for trans it transactions must be made within three months from the date of any advance payment collected f rom the fore ign buyer. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transac- tions included in Lists A, B, and subcategories (1) and (2) of List C must be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs to a Conver t ib le Accoun t. Suppor t ing documents must be presented to an authorized bank; for paymen ts exceeding BF 10 million and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of the supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area coun- tries for items in subcategory (3) of List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs to a Con- vertible Account) or through the free market (alter- natively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank- notes); payments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Bel- gian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes). Payments to bilateral countries (see footnote 2) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; payments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zaires through a converti- ble account in Zaire. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 253(68) of May 29, 1968. Ind iv idual licenses are required for specified exports to all countries except 62 Luxembourg.9 All other exports are free of license; only a simple form completed by the exporter g iv ing notifica- tion of the export is requ i red. No exchange con trol documen ta t ion is requ ired for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in va lue. The authorized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance w i th the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authoriza- tion is required to collect export proceeds more than six mon ths a f ter the date of exportation. Export pro- ceeds in convertible currencies mus t, w i t h in eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an author- ized bank if they are to be used later for current paymen ts authorized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export proceeds exceeding BF 5 m i l l ion in va lue requ ires prior au tho r iza t ion of the IBLC; in a d d i t i o n, p aym en ts for exports to b i la teral coun t r ies may not be received more than three months before the date foreseen for expo r ta t ion; proceeds f rom trans it t ransac t ions must be collected w i th in three mon ths from the date of payment to the foreign sup- plier. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceeding BF 10 million. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles con- nected w i th commercial transactions (Lists A and B— see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, w i th in eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange m a rk e t ), or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency w i th an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceed- ing BF 10 million through the official market. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free marke t. Receipts f rom other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free ma rke t. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area coun- tries may be carried out freely through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct inves tmen ts by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including 9 Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EEC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gifts, fam i ly maintenance paymen ts, rem i t tances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg na t iona l i ty, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial charac- ter, may also be made th rough the official market, subject to i n d i v i d u al license. The exchange control authorities may gua ran tee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital b rought in through the official market (under special license, and as an exception to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that ma rke t. Also eligible for out- ward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of conver t ib le area countries, provided that such securities had been held at least six mon ths prior to the ma tu r i ty date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents. Public bids by foreign compan ies or ind iv idu a ls for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance. Outward payments for cap i tal transac t ions w i th bilateral coun- tries must be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through B i la teral Accounts, or in the case of Zaire, in zai'res; inward paymen ts for capital transac- tions w i th b i la teral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the f ree ma rke t, or in the case of Zaire, in zai'res. The external position of authorized banks is subject to control. Banks in Belgium and Luxembourg have been requested not to allow their net external debtor spot positions relating to the official market and, vis-a-vis nonresidents, in Belgian francs and Luxem- bourg francs in Convertible Accounts, to increase beyond specified levels. Banks have also been instructed that their overall external position relating to the offi- cial market (spot and forward combined) should normally be close to balance and should not register a substantial creditor or debtor position. Furthermore, since May 11, 1971, banks have been prohibited from opening time or prior notice Convertible Accounts for nonresidents and (with minor exceptions) from paying interest on demand deposits in Convertible Accounts. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in the form of coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settle- ments in respect of gold transactions with convertible area countries (other than payments for semiprocessed BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG gold impor ted by profess ional use rs) may on ly be made through the free marke t, through financial accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. No customs duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except imports for indus t r ial or hand ic ra ft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to profess ional users, who have to make pay- ment through the off ic ial ma rke t. Transactions in mone- tary gold, i.e., coins and bars, are exempt f rom value- added tax in Belgium. Changes during 1972 During the year a considerable number of Euro- bond issues denominated in Luxembourg francs took place; one such issue denominated in Belgian francs was authorized. Also in 1972, most of Belgium's short- term foreign public debt was liquidated. January 1. The temporary export tax of 1.75 per cent was abolished. February 18. Unwrought lead was added to the list of goods subject to import licensing from all sources except Luxembourg, effective April 18. March 6. The economic union between Belgium and Luxembourg was extended for ten years. March 9. The IBLC instructed banks in Belgium and Luxembourg not to allow their net debtor spot positions relating to the official market and, vis-a-vis nonresidents, in Belgian francs and Luxembourg francs in Convertible Accounts, to increase beyond the level at the close of business on that date; banks having a net external creditor position or a balanced position were instructed not to incur a net debtor position. Temporary excesses of up to 10 per cent were per- mitted, however, in order not to disturb the normal performance of current transactions. Banks were also asked to take measures to restrict the accumulation by nonresidents of Convertible Account balances not required for normal current transactions and to limit their own recourse to foreign money markets to their nonspeculative requirements. The IBLC in addition informed banks on April 5 that they could not delib- erately incur any considerable long or short overall foreign currency position (spot and forward combined) in the official market. March 15. A recodification of the basic exchange control regulations took place, primarily to incorporate the principles of the decisions of May 10, 1971 that had separated the two exchange markets and enabled foreign currency to go to a discount in the free market. At the same time, however, certain minor changes were introduced, as follows: (1) income collected more than six months after the due date was shifted back from the free market to an option between official market and free market; (2) the prohibition on receiv- ing advance payments for transit transactions in excess 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG of BF 5 million was lifted; (3) all receipts and pay- ments in respect of invisibles up to BF 50,000 were exempted from the submission of documentary evi- dence; (4) the provisions about the surrender of any exchange profits on official market forward contracts were modified; (5) also modified were the provisions concerning balances in official market accounts that are not utilized within 30 days after a change of parity; (6) the Japanese yen was included among the cur- rencies traded in the official market (but was not officially quo ted); (7) inward payments in foreign currencies from bilateral countries, when in respect of transactions in List C, were shifted from the official market to an option between free and official market, and when in respect of List D were shifted from the official market to the free market; and ( 8) purchases of securities in the BLEU by foreign insurance companies were shifted from the official market to the free market. (Subject to individual approval, they could with effect from May 8 again make certain purchases to the debit of Convertible Accounts.) April 24. The National Bank narrowed the margins in the official exchange market for the deutsche mark, the French franc, and the Italian lira to 21A per cent either side of the cross-parities. From May 1 until June 23 this regime was also applied to sterling. Nar- rower margins for the Danish krone and the Norwegian krone came into effect on May 1 and May 23, respec- tively. The Benelux intervention arrangement was con- tinued on April 26, with margins of extended until May 31, and again until September 30. On May 31, 1973 the sterilized amount had reached about BF 25 billion. (The Luxembourg authorities applied a similar sterilization system, and banks estab- lished in Luxembourg undertook with effect from Janu- ary 2, 1973 to set aside a monetary reserve calculated on nonresidents' holdings of convertible Luxembourg and Belgian francs. Furthermore, banks in Luxem- bourg were requested to confine their credits to Belgian enterprises within normal limits. The sterilized amounts were deposited with the National Bank early in Janu- ary 1973.) BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.0409256 gram of fine gold per Bolivian Peso, corresponding to $b 21 .7143 = SDR 1 or $b 20 = US$1. The U. S. do l lar is the intervention currency and Bolivia avails itself of wider margins. For operational purposes, the exchange ma rket is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the pri- vate sector. The Central Bank of Bolivia operates in the public sector, buy ing fo re ign exchange f rom the Govern- men t, the off ic ial enterprises, in c lud ing the Bolivian Min- ing Corporation (COM IBOL ), and pr iva te export firms, and selling fore ign exchange to the Banco del Estado, the commercial banks and exchange houses, and the Gov- ernment and its official agencies. The commercial banks and exchange houses purchase exchange accruing to the private sector on account of capital and invisibles, and they cover all fore ign exchange requirements of the private sector. The exchange rate of the Central Bank on December 30, 1972 was $b 20.00 buy ing, and $b 20.02 selling, per US$1. All sales of fore ign exchange are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per mill stamp tax. Accordingly, the effective selling rate of the commercial banks and exchange houses on the same date was $b 20.40 per US$ 1. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Prescription of Currency Certain settlements with Hunga ry and Poland are channeled through special accounts.1 Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Settle- ments are usually made in U. S. dollars or other con- vertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Peru may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce; they are not permitted to import commodities also available in Bolivia. Private imports of certain com- modities also require such prior authorization; these goods include live cattle, various foodstuffs, raw cotton, and petroleum and petroleum products. The import of cigarettes, cement, and certain other locally produced goods is prohibited. All other goods may be imported freely. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased freely f rom commercial banks. Most foreign credits, * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Bolivia with effect f rom February 13 established a central rate of $b 20=US$1, corresponding to $b 24.127 = SDR 1, and continued to avail itself of wider margins. 1 Bilateral payments arrangements agreed with Bulgaria did not come into operation during 1972. 66 including officially guaranteed suppliers' credits, are sub- ject to au tho r iza t ion by the Na t ional Economic and P lann ing Council. Most private sector impo r ts are subject to a customs surcharge of 1 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv i s ib les may be made free ly. Residents of Bolivian or fo re ign na t iona l i ty must pay a travel tax when leav ing the coun t ry. The tax is $b 150 for air travel to ne ighbor ing countries, $b 60 for overland travel to such coun tr ies, $b 300 for air travel to other Latin Amer ican coun tr ies, and $b 400 for air travel to coun- tries outside Latin America. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not sub ject to licensing, a l though certain exports may be p roh ib i ted f r om t ime to time owing to domestic supp ly fac to rs. All proceeds f rom exports of the pub l ic and pr iva te sectors must be sold to the Central Bank w i th in 15 days of receipt, w i th the excep- tion of reasonable amoun ts deducted for foreign exchange expend i tures unde r taken to effect the export. The marke t ing of m inera ls is a state monopoly; in prac- tice, COMIBOL and the med ium-s ized mines export their own production and COMIBOL and the Mining Bank most of that of the small mines of the private sector. The small mines may export the rest of their production themselves or through traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles may be retained or sold in the exchange market. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents are free of control and may be made free ly; inward capital transfers also may be made freely, but govern- ment receipts of transfers and gran ts and all proceeds of borrowings f rom foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, inc lud ing suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector w i th official guarantees, are subject to pr ior au thor iza t ion by the National Economic and Planning Council. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Code. Gold By virtue of Supreme Decree No. 07771 of August 2, 1966, imports and exports of gold and domestic trading ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in gold are subject to regulation by the Central Bank. The Decree also designated the Central Bank to pur- chase, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Supreme Decree No. 8635 of Janua ry 29, 1969 fu r ther regulated the purchase and sale of gold, silver, and p la t inum by the Central Bank and the Mining Bank. The Central Bank purchases a limited amount of gold at US$38 an ounce f rom the fore ign-owned company and the M in ing Bank, which buys f rom the smaller producers on behalf of the Central Bank. The Central Bank also purchases gold at the f ree ma rket price, but only as a marketing agency for the m in ing sector, and not for its own account. COMIBOL exports all the gold it produces at the free market price. The foreign-owned company and the M in ing Bank are also allowed to export gold at the free market price. The M in ing Bank is authorized to sell a specified qu an t i ty of gold annu a l ly to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the rema inder to the Central Bank. Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1972 January 1. The reciprocal credit agreement with Brazil came into operation. March 17. Supreme Decree No. 10151 reduced export taxes on copper. These taxes were fu r ther reduced on Ju ly 28 by Supreme Decree No. 10379. March 28. A General Hydrocarbons Law was enacted (Decree-Law No. 10170). May 30. Imports of many alcoholic beverages were prohibited by Supreme Decree No. 10288. BOLIVIA August 25. Exports of beef and cattle were tempo- rarily prohibited. October 27. The exchange rate was changed f rom $b 11.875 (buy ing) to $b 20 ( b u y i n g) per U .S. dollar. October 27. Decree-Law No. 10550 abolished the statistical controls on purchases of fo re ign exchange, revoked Supreme Decree No. 08986 imposing the requ irement of a sworn declaration, and rea f f i rmed the freedom f rom restrictions for all current and capital payments and transfers. October 27. Decree-Law No. 10550 introduced an export tax of 20 per cent on the net export va lue ( a f t er deduction of regalia taxes and fore ign processing costs) of trad i t ional exports (m inera ls, metals, hydrocarbons, cattle and meat, and cotton) and an export tax of 15 per cent on the net export va lue of all other commodi- ties. An export tax of 40 per cent, however, was applied to the net value of all exports produced or shipped before October 27, 1972; later in the year certain exemptions were granted. October 31. A new par value of 0.0409256 gram of fine gold per Bolivian peso was established, correspond- ing to $b 20 per US$ 1. It replaced the par value estab- lished on May 14, 1953, at which no transactions had taken place since 1956. Bolivia also availed itself of wider margins. November 15. Decree-Law No. 10583 abolished the customs surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem introduced in 1968. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA Exchange and Trade System * Botswana's currency is the South African Rand. The par value of the rand is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per rand, which corresponds to R 1 = SDR 1.17648 or R 1 = US$1.27732. Exchange rates are based on the South African Reserve Bank's fixed rates for the U. S. dollar against rand (R 0.7809 buying, and R 0.7848 selling, per U. S. dollar) and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U. S. dollar. Botswana is treated under U. K. exchange control regulations as part of the Overseas Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Botswana also forms part of the Rand Currency Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. For purposes of exchange control over transactions in secu- rities or gold, residents of a member country of the latter area are not regarded as residents of another member country. The Ministry of Finance and Develop- ment Planning controls all external currency trans- actions. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Currency Area, and in principle these are uncon- trolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries out- side the Rand Currency Area, Botswana applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, although Botswana's treatment of certain capital transfers to other countries of the Ster- ling Area may be more liberal. Payments to nonresi- dents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident fore ign na t iona l, a nonresident, or a resident. Au thor i ty to approve some types of current paymen ts is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits; this is true, for example, of the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel ( the equ iva lent of R 2,000 in a ca lendar year for an adu lt and R 800 for a ch i ld) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighbor- ing countries. There are no b i la teral paymen ts arrange- ments. Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods o r ig ina t ing in any coun- try of the customs union. Imports f rom South Afr ica do not require licenses and include an unknown quan- tity of goods or ig ina t ing outside the customs union. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, South A f r i ca decided to ma in ta in its par value in the terms of gold. The Reserve Bank w i th e f fect f rom Feb rua ry 14 quoted fixed rates for the U .S. dollar of US$1.4229 buying, and US$1.4157 selling, per R 1. 68 Insofar as Botswana imports goods direct from coun- tries outside the customs union, such imports are usu- ally licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue and similar reasons. Furthermore, goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Rhodesia by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided that they are not intended for re-export; imports of Rhodesian beer, tobacco, and cigarettes are not permitted, however. Changes during 1972 June 23. Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swazi- land ceased to be Scheduled Territories of the Sterling Area in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. June 30. The existing relationship between the rand and the pound sterling was maintained. The South African Reserve Bank resumed exchange operations. Its fixed quotations for sterling, which had been float- ing since June 23, remained unchanged at <£100 = R 194.6955 (buy ing) and £100 = R 196.1615 (sell- ing ). As a result, the rand began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, for which the parity relationship had been R 1 = US$1.33333. July 4. Following the application of exchange control by the United Kingdom to the Overseas Sterling Area countries except Ireland, South Africa's exchange con- trol regulations were amended. The regulations ceased to distinguish between Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area countries. Instead, they now distinguished between the Rand Currency Area (consisting of South Africa and Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland) and the Non- resident Area; the latter was defined in two ways: (a) in the application of the Securities Control Notices it consisted of all countries outside South Afr ica and (b) for all other purposes it consisted of all countries outside the Rand Currency Area (and thus excluded Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). A South African resident was defined as a person, whe ther of South A f r ican or any other na t iona l i ty, who has taken up residence in, or is domiciled in, the Republic of South Africa. A nonresident was defined in two ways: (a) in the application of the Securities Control Notices, as a person whose no rm al place of residence or domicile is outside the Republic of South A f r ica and (b) for all other purposes, as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Currency Area. Thus, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- land con t inued to be regarded as nonresidents for pur- poses of control over transactions in securities. Non- resident rand accounts were reclassified into three groups: Rhodesian, Nonresident, and Blocked Accounts; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA the reclassification involved the merging of Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts and their redesignation as Nonresident Accounts. October 24. A new par value was established and the rand ceased to float with sterling. The par value was changed from R 28.5000 to R 29.7500 per ounce of fine gold, corresponding to SDR 1.17648 per rand. In terms of U. S. dollars, the parity change was from R 1 = US$1.33333 to R 1 = US$1.27732; the latest market rate for the U. S. dollar, however, had been R 1 = US$1.2190. The Reserve Bank of South Africa henceforth quoted fixed rates for the U. S. dollar instead of sterling. The official buying and selling rates were set at US$1.2806 and US$1.2742, respectively, per rand (R 0.7809 and R 0.7848, respectively, per U. S. do l lar). The Bank's quotations for other major curren- cies were based on their rates against the U. S. dollar in the London exchange market. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Exchange System * On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian Cruzeiro was established by Brazil with the Fund. However, exchange transac t ions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Brazil follows a flexible exchange rate policy. Exchange transac t ions are carried out by the Central Bank, the Bank of Braz i l, the authorized banks, and the exchange houses. The Cen t ral Bank operates in exchange in Rio de Jane i ro and Sao Paulo, and the Bank of Brazil undertakes exchange transactions in the name of the Central Bank in other parts of the coun try. The exchange houses deal on ly in bankno tes and travelers checks in a "manual market." Un i fo rm i ty between the rates quo ted by the mon e t a ry au tho r i t ies and the effec- tive rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authorities of standing ready to purchase foreign exchange f rom the banks and to sell exchange to the banks on an adequate basis, for approved transactions; such purchases and sales are made at the official rate. On December 30, 1972, the buy ing and selling rates quoted by the mone ta ry author- ities to the public were Cr$6.180 and Cr$6.215 per US$1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks for transactions other than in banknotes or travelers checks were the same (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). Exchange rates for other currencies (including "agreement currencies" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries) are based on the U. S. dollar rates in Brazil. With specified exceptions, fore ign exchange transac t ions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which for the rates listed above result in effec t ive rates w i th in 1 per cent on either side of the rates of the mone tary authorities. On the buying side, other effective rates result from the following arrangements: (a) special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ); and (b) a 10 per cent contribution ("contribution quota" or quota de contribuigao) is levied on proceeds f rom exports of cocoa beans and products. On the selling side, a different effective rate arises from the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (see section on Payments for Invisibles, be low ), which specifies that the sum of profits and dividends effectively remitted to persons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the average of actual remittances in any three-year period, from 1963 onward, is in excess of 12 per cent a year of registered capital and reinvestment. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Brazil on Feb rua ry 14 appreciated the cruzeiro in terms of the U. S. dollar; the buy ing and selling ra tes were changed f rom Cr$6.180 and Cr$6.215, respectively, to Cr$5.995 and Cr$6.030 per US$1. In terms of SDKs, the adjustment of the buying rate was f rom Cr$6.70971 to Cr$7.23206 per SDR 1. 70 The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a considerable proportion of all exchange transactions. The following arrangements assure the Bank of Brazil of a large portion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: (1) Petrobras surrenders to the Bank its entire foreign exchange proceeds f rom certain exports of petroleum. (2) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Vale do Rio Doce Company are surrendered to the Bank of Brazil. All public sector agencies carry out their exchange operations through the Bank of Brazil. Fu r the rmo re, expor ters in regions not served by other banks sell the ir exchange proceeds to the Bank. The Bank of Braz il sells fore ign exchange for the require- men ts of the Gove rnment at the exchange ra te prevail- ing on the da te the transac t ion is made. Like the other commercial banks, the Bank of Brazil also sells foreign exchange for paymen ts in respect of a large number of imports, inc lud ing crude oil and petroleum products, wheat, new sp r in t, fe r t i l ize rs, and the requ iremen ts of the Vale do Rio Doce Company. The Cen tral Bank handles all exchange transactions in bilateral currencies and exchange t ran sac t ions related to impor ts under U. S. aid (by transferring exchange to authorized banks or vice versa). The authorized banks are required to surrender to the Cen tral Bank or to the Bank of Braz il (opera t ing for the account of the Cen tral Bank), at the close of each business day, any fore ign exchange in excess of a net position of US$25,000 for each branch. The Central Bank and the Bank of Braz i l, operating for the account of the Cen tral Bank, supply foreign exchange to author- ized banks in amoun ts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position of up to US$500,000 and limited to 50 per cent of the exchange sold the previous day by the bank concerned to its customers; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, provided that they are situated in the same trading center; transfers between branches of the same bank in different trading centers are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. In addition, since March 1971, exchange transactions have been permitted between banks in Rio de Janeiro and banks in Sao Paulo; such transactions must be carried out by cable on a spot basis and must be executed within two working days. Since April 1972 authorized banks have also been permitted to engage in arbitrage among themselves when operating in the same trading center or between establishments in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. The "manual market" is con- ducted mainly by exchange houses, which are not permitted to ma in ta in a sold position and are not entitled to obtain exchange cover from the monetary authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of Control The N a t i o n al Mone ta ry Counc i l, cha ired by the M in- ister of Finance, is responsible for the formu la t ion of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance w i th the guidelines established by the Council, and under the supervision of the Director in charge of Foreign Exchange Operations of the Central Bank, exchange control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Operations Department (GECAM) and Depar tment for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital (FIRCE); the la t ter processes the registration of fore ign capital for the purpose of its repa tr ia t ion and of the rem i t tance of income therefrom; it also exercises approval au tho r i ty over the terms of fore ign f inanc ing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days. Certain borrowing abroad requires the prior approval of the in te rm in is te r ial Foreign Loans Commission (CEMPEX). The Na t ional Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX), chaired by the Minister of Indus try and Commerce and established w i th in h is M in i s t ry, fo rmu la tes foreign trade policy. The M in is t ry of Foreign A f fa i rs is the Council's executive organ for dealing w i th foreign countries, wh i le the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) imp lemen ts the Council's decisions w i th in Brazil. The Foreign Trade Department issues export and import certificates (guias de ex port a- gao and guias de importagdo), and verifies price quota- tions, weights, measures, classifications, and types in import operations. CACEX also is in charge of approv- ing import financing w i th terms of up to 360 days. Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Institute ( IBC ), which is an au tonomous body respon- sible to the Minister of Indus try and Commerce and operates w i th in the general guidelines of the National Monetary Council. The Customs Policy Council (CPA ), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for formulating guidelines for tar iff policy, subject to the legal powers of the National Monetary Council and the National Council of Foreign Trade. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provi- sions of existing legislation. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with payments agree- ment countries are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. These accounts are main- tained with Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hun- gary, Israel, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia. There is a reciprocal credit agreement between the Central Bank of Brazil and the Central Bank of Iceland. Settle- ments with other countries w i th which Brazil has no payments agreements or arrangements are made in U. S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Reciprocal BRAZIL credit agreements providing for settlements through accounts denom ina ted in U. S. dollars are in force with Argen t ina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Peru. Proceeds f rom exports to La t in Amer ican member coun tr ies of the Inter-American Development Bank, other than Argen t ina, Mexico, and Venezuela, may be received in the currency of the importing country. Imports and Import Payments Special arrangemen ts described below apply to imports of petroleum and petroleum products. The import of recrea t ional boats of a value over US$3,500 and of commodities or ig ina t ing in or shipped f rom Cuba and Rhodesia is prohibited. All other imports may be grouped into the following two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative documentation, e.g., samples without commercial value, certain educational material, parts and accessories (valued up to the equivalent of US$3,000) for mach inery, instruments, ships, and air- c ra f t; and (2) imports that require an import certificate. The bulk of imports falls in to the second category. The import certificate is issued subject to the presentation of data on the foreign price of the commodity and other relevant information CACEX may require. Import certificates are issued on an f.o.b. basis; as a rule, they are issued freely and without undue delay and are valid for 180 days. For a number of specified imports in the second category, the import certificate may be obtained a f ter the disembarkation of the commodity in Brazil, e.g., live plants, fish, various minerals, and paper. For certain other imports in the second category the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods imported by public bodies, imports for which tariff concessions are being sought, goods to be brought in with foreign financing with terms between 180 and 360 days, certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fairs and trade exhibitions, and used instruments, machinery, and equipment. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- ever, the maximum period for which payments for imports may be delayed is 180 days from the date of shipment; this period may be extended to 360 days at the discretion of CACEX for imports of raw materials, spare parts for direct use by the importer, and capital goods which are not produced domestically. Financing arrangements for imports in which credit terms exceed 360 days in amounts over US$500,000 require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Any bona fide interest involved in the above credit arrangements is approved freely. Spot contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle draf ts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled w i th in 2 working days. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened, or to pay 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL for goods already shipped. Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Commercial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. In certain cases, interest at about 0.5 per cent a month is charged on the portion of the forward contract not covered by a deposit. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petro- bras concludes a "global foreign exchange contract" with the Bank of Brazil once every four months for its estimated requirements. The contract is concluded at the official market rate prevailing 10 days prior to the closing of the contract. At the same time, the Bank of Brazil concludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position, for an amount equivalent to the value of the "global contract" at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks; the rate applicable is again the one prevailing 10 days prior to the conclusion of the "global contract." Individual exchange contracts for petroleum shipments made during the life of the global contract are then closed at the exchange rate on which the latter is based. Payment by Petrobras against such contracts is made in the following manner: 30 per cent of the value of an individual contract is deposited 15 days from the date of shipment, and the remaining 70 per cent 110 days after shipment. The liquidation of each individual contract 110 days after shipment is accompanied by the liquidation, up to an equivalent value, of the exchange contract signed by the Bank of Brazil with the Central Bank; the liquidation of this latter exchange contract also takes place at the exchange rate at which the contract was originally signed. For some commodities, the application of import duties may be affected by the existence of similares nationals or the es tab l ishment of a m in imum import price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a reference price. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Invest- ment Law. In addition to cer ta in restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed, by virtue of an in ternal Central Bank measure of Septem- ber 19, 1965, on remittances of all royalties and tech- nical assistance fees (see below). Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of US$300 a month for personal remittances abroad. The sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad is subject to special regulations as described below. Payments for other 72 current invisibles require the approval of GECAM, which authorizes remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permitted up to US$ 1,000 a person a trip, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, on the following terms: (1) in bank- notes up to US$100, and (2) in payment orders or travelers checks for the remainder. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits; amounts in excess of US$1,000, when authorized, may be taken up in the form of pay- ment orders only. Foreign residents in transit in Brazil are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold during the period of their stay in Brazil; however, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. Each purchase trans- action is registered and the records of these operations, which must contain the names of clients, are submitted daily to the Central Bank. Remittances abroad of foreign capital, income from foreign investments and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the For- eign Investment Law (Law No. 4131, as amended by Law No. 4390). Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, be low). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to the furn ish ing of proof that the document has been approved by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on such remittances of earnings on foreign capital if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. Approved firms are exempt from this supplementary tax provided the profits are derived f rom the export of manu- factured goods. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for luxury consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of the registered capital. Remittances of royalties are not permitted by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad when 50 per cent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of gross receipts from the sale or manufacture of given products for which such payments are incurred abroad. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for determining the max imum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank- notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate issued by CACEX to ensure com- pliance w i th the requirements of exchange and trade regulations. Most exports are free of controls, but exports of certain commodities require prior approval of CACEX, while exports of specified commodities are prohibited. Exports requ i r ing approval include those effected through bilateral accounts or payable in inconvertible currencies, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which m in imum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requ ir ing prior au thor iza t ion by govern- ment agencies. Exports of beef are subject to an annual quota.1 Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the Brazilian Coffee Institute. The Brazilian Coffee Institute does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the m in imum registration price (in U. S. dollars per pound, f .o .b .) fixed f rom time to time by the Institute. The m i n im um registration price varies w i th the qua l i ty of the coffee and the port of shipment. Exporters of green coffee are required to surrender, without com- pensation, a portion of their proceeds in the form of a con tr ibu t ion quota. The cruzeiro proceeds f rom the contribution quota are transferred to the Coffee Defense Fund. The contribution quo ta is set f rom t ime to time by the B raz i l ian Coffee Ins t i tu te and is fixed in terms of foreign currency; on December 30, 1972 it was US$26.64 a bag. The con t r ibu t ion quo ta is ad jus ted whenever the exchange rate is changed in order to ensure that exporters' returns in cruzeiros, at the mini- mum registration price, rema in unchanged. Exporters may convert exchange proceeds, a f ter deduction of the contribution quo ta, at the p reva i l ing market rate of exchange. Thus, the effective exchange rate for exports of coffee depends on ( 1) the amount of the contribu- tion quota, (2) the actual price received (f .o .b. Brazil, in U .S. dollars per p o u n d ), and (3) the free market rate of exchange. On December 30, 1972 m in imum JW i th effect f rom January 13, 1973 a con t r ibu t ion quo ta of US$200 per ton f.o.b. was levied on expor ts of beef ( f r e s h, ch i l led, f rozen, or processed). BRAZIL registration prices, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment, were US$0.55, US$0.54, US$0.51, and US$0.495 per pound. The corresponding cruzeiro payments a bag, after deduction of the contri- bution quota, were Cr$284.03, Cr$275.87, Cr$251.40, and Cr$239.16. Thus the exchange rates for proceeds from coffee exports on sales at the minimum registra- tion price were Cr$3.912, Cr$3.870, Cr$3.734, and Cr$3.660, per US$1. The effective exchange rate for coffee exports is higher to the extent that sales are made in excess of the minimum registration price. Under an agreement signed in April 1971 by the Government of Brazil and the United States, Brazil agreed to make available annually, for purchase by U. S. soluble coffee producers, a specific quantity of green coffee free of the contribution quota.2 Proceeds of exports of soluble coffee are not subject to the con- tribution quota 3 and the exporter receives his fu ll pro- ceeds converted at the prevailing free market rate. In accordance with the provisions of various Resolu- tions of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, a price guarantee system for exports of Brazilian coffee is maintained. Under these provisions a foreign importer of Brazilian coffee is entitled to compensation from the Institute, under specified conditions, for any reduction in the price of Brazilian coffee below the level at which the importer's purchase took place. The compensation to be received by the foreign importer is to equal the largest difference between (1) the International Coffee Organization's (ICO) average indicator price for unwashed arabica prevailing during 9 market days, of which the fifth day is the date of export registration at the Brazilian Coffee Institute, and (2) the arithmetic moving average over periods of 10 consecutive market days in the period starting on the date of shipment and ending on the thirtieth day after shipment.4 The com- pensation takes the form of a credit that the importer may use in payment for new direct purchases of coffee f rom Brazil. The credits must be used within 90 days from the date of issue. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to surrender without compensation 10 per cent of their exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and planta- tion improvement for cocoa. 2 Sh ipmen ts under the relevant agreement w i th the Un i ted States were suspended in October 1972, and on May 16, 1973 Braz il gave notice of t e rm i n a t i on of the agreemen t. :{ A c o n t r i b u t i on q u o ta on exports of soluble coffee was established by IBC Reso lu t ion No. 684 of F eb ru a ry 2, 1973. It was e q u i v a l e nt to 15 per cent of the m in imum registration prices fixed by the Coffee In s t i tu te and was applicable on ly to sales to fore ign coun tr ies outside the ind iv idu al expo r te r s' quo tas set by the same Resolution. IBC Reso- lu t ion No. 687 of March 15, 1973 abolished the con t r ibu t ion quo ta on freeze-dried soluble coffee while ma in ta in ing it for other types of soluble coffee. 4 E f fec t ive J a n u a ry 1, 1973 the compensa t ion p aym ent was ca lcu la ted on the basis of IBC m i n im um registration prices ra ther than on the basis of ICO indicator prices. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL A large number of fiscal incentives apply to exports, principally of m anu f a c tu r ed commodities. These incen- tives inc lude exemp t ions f rom indirect and income taxes, customs du t ies, and cer ta in fees and charges, as well as credits related to the amount of exemption f rom tax l iab i l i ty. Var ious l ines of credit for exporters, some at p re fe ren t ial rates of in teres t, are provided by the Bank of Brazil and the commercial banks. These f inanc- ing facilities inc lude both export f inanc ing and the financing of produc t ion for export, pa r t icu la r ly the production of manu fac tu re s. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insur- ance and by way of guarantees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom cu r rent inv is ib les are sold through the Bank of Braz il or the au tho r ized banks at the preva i l ing ma rket ra te. Travelers checks and fo re ign bankno tes are sold in the "manual market." Travelers may b r ing in domestic and fo re ign currency notes free ly. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under Central Bank Resolution No. 63 (as amended) or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of CEMPEX is also required for borrowing by the public sector, when the foreign funds originate with official financial institutions abroad for borrowing by the pri- vate sector, and when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the national Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution. Moreover, import financing with credit terms exceeding 360 days in amounts over US$500,000 requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Furthermore, certain borrowing abroad is sub- ject to deposit requirements (see be low). Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the coun- try for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital is classified, for purposes of registra- tion, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes rein- 74 vested profits f rom foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that fore ign capital which constitutes part of the corpora te capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic unde r tak ing. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise that does not participate directly in capital risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether conceded by the manu fac tu rer himself or by a third party, is con- sidered to be financing (mos t ly suppliers' c red i t ). Loans are considered to be cash loans when mone tary or financial resources are brought into Brazil. For financed impor ts and for investments made in the fo rm of goods, registration is made in the currency of the coun try of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head off ice) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the coun t ry of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign cur- rency it is necessary to ce r t i fy that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the country of the lender, that the amortization schedule is not dispropor- tionately heavy in the early stages of repayment and, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of com- parable goods in the country of origin. If the terms of financing are approved, CACEX examines the applica- tions for some foreign borrowing in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the availability of similares nacionais. The registration of direct investment is subject to the following rules: The capital that enters or has entered Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Rein- vestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accrued to persons or companies resident or domiciled abroad; such profits must have been rein- vested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registra- tion of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The con- version is calculated at the average exchange rate pre- vailing between the date on which the profits were earned, or appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a company, and the date of their reinvestment. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under Central Bank Resolution No. 63, as amended, private commercial and investment banks and the National Bank for Economic Development may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for relending to the domestic private sector for purposes of financing working capital. The certificate of registration of the loan for the purposes of the Foreign Investment Law is furnished by FIRCE upon approval of the loan by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Central Bank. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits inc lude l im i ta t ions on the foreign obligations that each b ank may assume (re la ted to the terms of the credit and the size of the b a n k) and the provision that the u l t im a te borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Central Bank assures the ava i lab i l i ty of cover for the repa t r ia t ion of the loan at ma tu r i ty. All other f inanc ial loans in fo re ign cu r rency are effected under the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4 1 3 1 ). Loans und er this law also require pr ior Cen tral Bank au tho r iza t ion, but the Central Bank does not und e r t ake to provide exchange cover for them. Loans under Re so lu t ion No. 63 as well as those under Law No. 4131 must have a m i n im um term of six mon ths but no m a x im um term is set. Under a program for the management of external debt, the Na t ional Mone tary Council has since Decem- ber 1971 imposed qu an t i t a t ive limits on the amount of financial loans under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131 for which au tho r iza t ion may be given by the Central B a n k. Under the first 12-month program begin- ning December 1, 1971, the total amount of financial loans with a m a t u r i ty of less than one year was not perm i t ted to rise above the level ou ts tand ing on Novem- ber 30, 1971; to achieve this objective, new loans were registered in any one month in amoun ts no greater than those m a tu r ing in that month. Approvals of new financial loans of under one year's ma tur i ty were suspended in June 1972, but authorization for the renewal of m a t u r i ng loans con t inued to be gran ted up to the end of November 1972. Loans with maturities of one year or more are authorized only if maturities conform with m in imum requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans ou ts tand ing to rise only to the extent that the servicing comm i tmen ts on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart f rom the path approved by the National Monetary Council. At the end of 1972, Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 30, 1972)5 BRAZIL the Central Bank's m i n im um acceptable m a tu r i ty stood at six years. Existing loans with ma tu r i t ies of one year or more may be renewed, w i th the same or a second borrower, prov ided that the f u ll amount of the foreign exchange rema ins comm i t ted to Brazil for the m i n im um specified m a t u r i t y; this enables loans to be made to the final borrower at terms shorter than the final ma tur i ty of the debt. New fo re ign currency loans in the fo rm of financial cred i ts und er Re so lu t ion No. 63 and Law No. 4 1 31 are subject to a deposit requ i rement of 25 per cent of the cruze iro equivalent of the fo re ign exchange proceeds of loans (Reso lu t ion No. 236 and Circular No. 190, both of October 19, 1972 ). The deposit is held at the Central Bank, which bears the exchange risk on the deposit. The deposit earns no interest, and is re tu rned to the borrower propor t iona te ly with each amortization under the loan agreement. Loans registered prior to October 1972 but renewed subsequently with a maturity of at least six years are exempt f rom the deposit require- ment. Also exempt are loans f rom in te rna t ional agencies or foreign governments and suppliers' credits on imports of commodities originating in industrial countries. Banks are not perm i t ted to pay interest on demand deposits, whether held by residents or nonresidents. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require au tho r iza t ion by GECAM, which considers applications on the ir merits. Approved exchange trans- actions invo lv ing outward transfers of private capital are effec ted through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at the prevailing market rate. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Brazil. Gold m in ing is ruled by Law No. 4425 of November 2, 1964. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities and licensed industrial users are not (cruzeiros per U. S. dollar) Buying 3.660-3.912 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Reg- istration Price) 6 Coffee exports effected at a price equal to the minimum registration price, for payment at sight. 5.562 (Official Market Rate less 10% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products. 6.180 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 6.180 (Official Market Rate) All other export proceeds. Other receipts. Selling 6.215 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 6.215 (Official Market Rate) Imports, Invisibles.7 Capital. 5 Exc lud ing b roke rage fees. 6 The minimum registration price (in U. S. dollars per pound) varies with the qua l i ty of the coffee and the port of sh ipmen t. Du r ing 1972, exports of coffee usually took place at prices in excess of the minimum registration price. The rates shown make allowance for payment of the con tr ibu t ion quo ta, wh ich on December 30, 1972 was US$26.64 per bag. 7 A d i f f e r ent e f fec t ive ra te applies to ce r ta in rem i t tances of prof i ts and dividends (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above ). 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold (other than alloys for dental use) abroad unless special permission is obtained from the Central Bank. SUMOC Instruction No. 27 of December 1948 stipulated that producers of gold must sell 20 per cent of their output to the National Treasury, through the Bank of Brazil, at the official market price, i.e., then at US$35 an ounce; the other 80 per cent would remain at the free disposal of the person concerned. However, this provision was in force until December 1962 only, and the monetary authorities do not deal in gold. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold, which takes place at free market prices, is subject to a mining tax of 1 per cent. The mining tax may be offset against the other tax liabilities if and when gold is manufactured. The import of gold is sub- ject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX; imports of native gold and of gold in the form of powder are free of customs duty. Exports of gold coins and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler) requires an export certificate. Changes during 1972 January 1. The reciprocal credit agreement with Bolivia came into operation. January 1. Decree-Law No. 1172 of June 2, 1971 came into effect, which amended the rates of the min- ing tax, including the tax on gold. January 1. Under Decree-Law No. 1189 of Septem- ber 24, 1971, exporters of manufactured goods were exempted from import duties and the tax on industrial products ( IP I) with respect to imports of goods valued at no more than 10 per cent of the increase in their exports over the previous year. The exemptions applied to machinery and industrial equipment and parts and accessories, raw materials, and intermediate products, for a period of three years. January 4. IBC Resolution No. 547 revoked the pro- visions of IBC Resolution No. 545 of December 1, 1971, which had established quotas for exports of coffee for the period January 1, 1971-March 31, 1972. The m in imum registration prices of US$0.40, US$0.39, US$0.36, and US$0.345 a pound, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment and estab- lished by Resolution No. 546 of December 7, 1971, were maintained unchanged for the period January 5- April 30, 1972. The contribution quota also remained unchanged at US$21.87 a bag. January 27. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed f rom Cr$5.600 and Cr$5.635 per US$1 to Cr$5.750 and Cr$5.785 per US$1, respectively. January 27. IBC Resolution No. 548 raised the con- tribution quota on coffee exports f rom US$21.87 to US$22.59 a bag. February I. The reciprocal credit agreement with Chile came into operation. 76 February 4. IBC Resolution No. 550 extended the application of the minimum registration prices estab- lished by Resolution No. 546 and the contribution quota on coffee exports established by Resolution No. 548 to the period through May. February 16. FIRCE Communication No. 19 estab- lished that registration with the Central Bank for the remittance of funds abroad in respect of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or for the use of patents and trademarks would henceforth be subject to the fu r- nishing of proof that the document had been approved by the National Institute of Industrial Property. March 13. IBC Resolution No. 552 increased the basic minimum registration prices for coffee established by Resolution No. 546 of December 7, 1971 by US$0.01 a pound, to US$0.41, US$0.40, US$0.37, and US$0.355 a pound, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment, for the period March 14-June 30, 1972. At the same time, the contribution quota was raised from US$22.59 to US$23.91 a bag for the period March 14-March 31, 1972; however, the contribution quota remained unchanged at US$22.59 a bag for April 1-June 30, 1972. March 14. Under the program for the management of external debt adopted on November 30, 1971, the Central Bank announced fu r ther regulations governing the entry into Brazil of foreign financial loans falling within the provisions of Central Bank Resolution No. 63, SUMOC Instruction No. 289, and Law No. 4131. For loans with a maturity of over one year, the minimum acceptable maturity was set at two years; loans maturing within a period of between 24 and 47 months were required to have a m in imum grace period of one year, while loans with maturities in excess of 47 months could have a m in imum grace period of 6 months. In both cases, repayments could be made in installments of not less than 3 months. Loans maturing between 6 months and 12 months inclusive were hence- forth required to have a fixed period for contracting abroad and for entry of the funds into the country. March 14. CACEX Communication No. 372 per- mitted foreign wholesalers to provide price statements which were previously acceptable only if provided by the foreign manufac turer or exporter abroad. More- over, a number of items were added to List A, the list of products not requiring import certificates (guias de importa^ao). March 15. IBC Resolution No. 553 increased the contribution quota on coffee exports from US$23.91 to US$24.20 a bag for March 1972, and from US$22.59 to US$22.88 a bag for April 1-June 30, 1972. March 16. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed from Cr$5.750 and Cr$5.785 per US$1 to Cr$5.810 and Cr$5.845 per US$1, respectively. March. The Supreme Federal Tribunal, in Appeal No. 54044, ruled that replacement materials imported ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for use as such were not subject to the state value- added tax ( ICM ). The Tribunal confirmed that imported goods subject to the ICM tax were those imported for the purpose of sale and not for the com- pany's own use (e.g., capital goods). April 7. GECAM Announcement No. 201 extended the period within which the contribution quota on cof- fee exports must be paid to the Central Bank from 10 calendar days to 20 calendar days after the date of settlement of the exchange contract. April 20. Circular Letter GECAM No. 158 author- ized banks located in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo to engage freely among themselves in arbitrage of freely convertible currencies for spot delivery. April 27. IBC Resolution No. 554 increased the basic minimum registration prices for coffee established by Resolution No. 552 by US$0.01 a pound, to US$0.42, US$0.41, US$0.38, and US$0.365 a pound, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of ship- ment, for the period April 28-August 31, 1972. At the same time, the contribution quota was raised from US$22.88 to US$24.20 a bag for April 28- June 30, 1972; however, the contribution quota remained unchanged at US$22.88 a bag for July 1- August 31, 1972. May 4. Decree-Law No. 1215 authorized, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance, the grant- ing of refunds, reductions, or exemptions of the 25 per cent withholding tax due on interest, commissions, expenses, or discounts relating to all loans taken up abroad. May 5. IBC Resolution No. 556 increased the con- tribution quota on coffee exports from US$24.20 to US$24.54 a bag for the period May 8-June 30, 1972, and from US$22.88 to US$23.22 a bag for July 1- August 31, 1972. May 8. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$5.810 and Cr$5.845 per US$1 to Cr$5.880 and Cr$5.915 per US$1, respectively. May 15. Decree-Law No. 1219 provided additional tax concessions to firms exporting manufac tured goods. Included was a provision enabling specified firms to apply any payment of the supplementary tax on profit remittances toward any other tax liability. In addi- tion, these firms were entitled to receive exemptions from customs duties and the industrial products tax ( IP I ). The Decree also established a Commission for Fiscal Benefits and Special Export Programs (BEFIEX) under the Ministry of Finance to regulate and imple- ment these benefits. May 16. IBC Resolution No. 558 revoked the export registration for shipments of coffee to traditional mar- kets, as defined by the International Coffee Organiza- tion, during the period May 17-May 31, 1972. BRAZIL May 29. Central Bank Resolution No. 222 estab- lished that the reduction or exemption of the 25 per cent withholding tax due on interest, commissions, expenses, or discounts relating to foreign loans (as pro- vided for under Decree-Law No. 1215 of May 4, 1972), would be authorized only in respect of loans with a minimum maturity of ten years. May 29. Central Bank Circular No. 180 amended the regulations permitting authorized banks which con- tracted new financial loans abroad under Resolution No. 63 to relend the cruzeiro counterpart of such loans to local borrowers for the purpose of financing fixed or working capital. The loans could henceforth be extended to one or more successive Brazilian borrowers and at maturities less than that of the external loan; however, the m in imum maturity of each cruzeiro loan extended by the commercial banks was set at six months, and of loans extended by investment banks and by the National Bank for Economic Development at one year. During periods when the cruzeiro equivalent of such foreign exchange loans was not utilized for lending to domestic borrowers, the funds were required to be invested in short-term treasury bills. Only Brazilian borrowers who were private firms, mixed companies, or public industrial and commercial companies directly engaged in the manufacturing, processing, or distribu- tion of goods and services were eligible for such loans; companies dealing in securities, brokerage firms, insur- ance companies, holding companies, and other desig- nated financial companies were ineligible. May 30. Central Bank Resolution No. 223 set a 10 per cent contribution quota on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products. Previously, a con- tribution quota of 15 per cent was levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste, and a contribution quota of 5 per cent on proceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives. June 13. IBC Resolution No. 560 increased the basic minimum registration prices for coffee established by Resolution No. 554 by US$0.02 a pound, to US$0.44, US$0.43, US$0.40, and US$0.385 a pound, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment, for June 14-August 31, 1972. The contribution quota was maintained unchanged at US$24.54 a bag for June 1972, and at US$23.22 a bag for July 1-August 31, 1972. June 20. New regulations concerning borrowing abroad were announced. These were applicable to all new financial loans taken up under the provisions of Central Bank Resolution No. 63, SUMOC Instruction No. 289, and Law No. 4131. ( 1) Approvals of foreign currency loans with maturities of 6 to 12 months were suspended un t il December 1972, pending issuance of new directives. (2) The m in imum acceptable maturity for new loans registered w i th the Central Bank was raised to 60 months, with a m in imum grace period of 6 months and amortization to be permitted in quarterly 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL ins ta l lmen ts. (3) Rem i t tance of ove rdue interest pay- ments on matured fore ign loans became subject to prior Cen tral B ank app rova l. (4) Existing loans under Law No. 4131 could hence fo r th be renewed on ly for a m in imum period of four years, with a grace period of three and a half years. July 6. IBC Resolution No. 564 increased the basic minimum registration prices for coffee established by Resolution No. 560 by US$0.01 a pound to US$0.45, US$0.44, US$0.41, and US$0.395 a pound, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment, for the period July 7-September 30, 1972. The contribu- tion quota remained unchanged at US$23.22 a bag. July 9. IBC Resolution No. 565 suspended export registrations for coffee. July 13. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed f rom Cr$5.800 and Cr$5.915 per US$1 to Cr$5.930 and Cr$5.965 per US$1, respectively. July 20. IBC Resolution No. 566 increased the basic minimum registration prices for coffee established by Resolution No. 564 by US$0.10 a pound, to US$0.55, US$0.54, US$0.51, and US$0.495 a pound, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment for the period Ju ly 21-September 30, 1972. The contri- bution quota was raised f rom US$23.22 to US$27.50 a bag. The Resolution also established a system of indi- vidual export quotas for sales to traditional markets, and announced that the IBC would not grant any request for authorization of sales in excess of the established quotas, whether or not such requests resulted from previous commitments. Sales destined for new markets became subject to prior approval by the IBC. Finally, the Resolution fixed a new registra- tion price of US$1.03 a pound for shipments of soluble coffee during August 1-September 30, 1972. July 26. Further regulations were announced for new foreign currency loans to be taken up under Reso- lution No. 63, SUMOC Instruction No. 289, and Law No. 4131. For new loans with ma tur i t ies of 60-71 months, the m in imum grace period was set at 18 months, while for loans with maturities of 72 months or more, the minimum grace period remained at 6 months. July 31. Ministry of Finance Ordinance No. 195 permitted foreign exchange losses, when arising from readjustments of the unpaid cruzeiro balance on for- eign loans due to changes in the exchange rate for the cruzeiro, to be deducted as costs or operational expenses for tax purposes. August 14. IBC Resolution No. 570 reduced the contribution quota on exports of coffee from US$27.50 to US$23.50 a bag for the period August 15-Novem- ber 30, 1972. The minimum registration prices estab- lished by Resolution No. 566 were maintained unchanged. The system of individual export quotas established by Resolution No. 566 was abolished. The 78 price guarantee established by Resolution No. 524 was extended to cover shipments up to November 30, 1972. August 28. Decree-Law No. 1236 exempted imports of complete industrial plants with technical know-how from the payment of customs duties, provided the new plants were used to produce goods for export. September 1. Central Bank Resolution No. 229, Cen- tral Bank Circular No. 186, GECAM Communication No. 209, and FIRCE Communication No. 20 estab- lished new regulations governing foreign financial loans under Law No. 4131. Such loans, when granted directly to Brazilian nonbank enterprises, could hence- for th be renewed, at the option of the creditor, with the same borrower or contracted successively with dif- ferent borrowers, for periods shorter than that of the final maturity of the external loan, provided that the fu ll amount of the foreign exchange remained com- mitted to Brazil for the m in imum acceptable maturity period authorized by the Central Bank at the time of the initial entry of the funds into Brazil; the loans could be made only to private firms, mixed companies, or public industrial and commercial enterprises directly engaged in the manufac tur ing, processing, or distribu- tion of goods and services, and not to companies dealing in securities, brokerage firms, insurance companies, holding companies, and other designated financial insti- tutions. Each loan could be extended at a minimum maturity of 18 months. During interim periods between loan renewals, the foreign exchange proceeds from the foreign loans were required to be deposited with the Central Bank in special foreign currency accounts in the name of the lender; such deposits would earn inter- est based on the London offered six-month time deposit rate for the currency of the loan, less 25 per cent Brazilian withholding tax. The initial contracting of the external loans, the internal renewal with the same or successive borrowers, and any subsequent changes in the interest rate, remained subject to prior authori- zation by FIRCE, which would permit interest rate changes only if the agreed interest rate was consistent with the level prevailing in international markets. September 1. Under the terms of Central Bank Cir- cular No. 187, changes in the rate of interest charged on loans to domestic borrowers by authorized banks taking advantage of the facilities for relending the cruzeiro counterpart of Resolution No. 63 foreign finan- cial loans (as authorized by Central Bank Circular No. 180) became subject to prior authorization by FIRCE. Such changes would be approved only if the agreed interest rate was consistent with the level pre- vailing in international markets. September 4. IBC Resolution No. 572 raised the contribution quota on exports of coffee f rom US$23.50 to US$23.96 a bag. September 4. Further regulations were announced for the approval of new foreign currency loans taken up abroad under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The m in imum acceptable ma tur i ty for fore ign currency loans was extended to 72 mon ths, w i th a m i n im um grace period of 6 months. September 5. The b u y i ng and selling rates of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies were changed f rom Cr$5.930 and Cr$5.965 per US$1 to Cr$5.990 and Cr$6.025 per US$1, respectively. September 15. IBC Resolution No. 573 extended to the period October 1-December 3 1, 1972 the applica- tion of the m i n im um reg is tra t ion prices for coffee established by Reso lu t ion No. 566 and the con tr ibu t ion quota of US$23.96 a bag established by Resolution No. 571. September 29. M in i s t ry of Finance Ordinance No. 230 regu la t ing Decree-Law No. 1215 of May 4, 1972 established the fo l low ing conditions for the re fund, reduction, or exemption of the 25 per cent withholding tax due on in te res t, commissions, discounts, or expenses related to fo re ign loans: ( 1) the fo re ign loans must be deemed to be in the na t ional in te res t; (2) proof must be fu rn i sh ed that the f inanc ial costs of the bor- rower wou ld be effectively lowered through the tax concession; and (3) the m in imum acceptable maturity established by the National Monetary Council must be observed. October 13. IBC Reso lu t ions Nos. 640 and 642 estab- lished the following regulations applicable to coffee exports: ( 1) the m in imum registration prices estab- lished by Resolution No. 566 and the contribution quota on exports of coffee of US$23.96 a bag were maintained unchanged for October 1972; (2) for the period November 1, 1972-January 31, 1973, the minimum registration prices established by Resolution No. 566 were ma in ta ined unchanged; however, the con- tribution quota was raised f rom US$23.96 to US$25.28 a bag; (3) Resolution No. 573 was cancelled; and (4) the criteria for determining the price guarantee system for exports of Brazilian coffee were altered for ship- ments beginning January 1, 1973; henceforth, the com- pensation to the importer would be based on the difference between (a) the m in imum registration price for coffee of grade six to better, free of Rio zone flavor and shipped through the port of Santos, and (b) the price prevailing on the th ir t ie th day af ter ship- ment. Previously, the amount of compensation was calculated on the basis of the ICO indicator price, and the guarantee period was 60 days. October 13. IBC Resolution No. 641 increased the basic registration price for soluble coffee to US$1.08 a pound, for shipments in the period October 13- Decembe r31, 1972. October 16. IBC Resolution No. 643 raised the con- tribution quota on exports of coffee from US$23.96 to US$24.48 a bag for the period October 17-31, 1972, and from US$25.28 to US$25.80 a bag for the period November 1, 1972-January 31, 1973. October 17. The buying and selling rates of the mone- BRAZIL tary authorities were changed f rom Cr$5.990 and Cr$6.025 per US$1 to Cr$6.060 and Cr$6.095 per US$1, respectively. October 19. Na t ional Mone tary Counc il Resolutions Nos. 236 and 237 and Bank of Brazil Circular No. 190 canceled SUMOC In s t ruc t ion No. 289 of Janu- ary 14, 1965, which had prov ided for the con trac t ing of short-term foreign currency loans, subject to the prior authorization of the Cen tral Bank, w i th the right to repurchase the same amount of foreign exchange free of any restrictions, gua ran tee deposits, or financial charges. (Approva ls for such loans, which were employed p r ima r i ly by borrowers affiliated with a for- eign lender, had since 1969 been limited to the amount of loans m a tu r ing in each mon th .) Hencefor th, foreign f inanc ial loans could enter Brazil only under the pro- visions of Central Bank Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131. At the same time, all new foreign currency loans in the form of f inanc ial credits under this Resolution and Law became subject to a 25 per cent deposit requirement. The deposit, calculated as 25 per cent of the cruzeiro equivalent of the foreign exchange pro- ceeds of loans, was required to be made on the day the foreign exchange borrowed was sold for cruzeiros. The deposit was to be held at the Central Bank, which would bear the exchange risk on the deposit. The deposit would earn no interest, but it would be subject to "monetary correction" and would be returned to the borrower proportionately with each amortization under the loan agreement. Loans registered prior to this Resolution, but renewed subsequently with a maturity of at least six years, were exempt from the deposit requirement. Also exempt were loans from international agencies or foreign governments and sup- pliers' credit on imports from industrial countries. October 23. IBC Resolution No. 644 confirmed the export registration for soluble coffee to be loaded up to January 31, 1973 and extended the application of the m in imum registration price established by Resolu- tion No. 641 of October 13, 1972. November 8. IBC Resolution No. 645 extended to the period November 9, 1972-February 28, 1973 the application of the minimum registration prices for coffee established by Resolution No. 566 and the contribution quota of US$25.80 per bag established by Resolution No. 643. November 21. IBC Resolution No. 647 raised the contribution quota on exports of coffee from US$25.80 to US$26.29 a bag. November 22. The buying and selling exchange rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$6.060 and Cr$6.095 per US$1 to Cr$6.130 and Cr$6.165 per US$1, respectively. November 22. IBC Resolution No. 648 extended to the period through March 31, 1973 the application of the minimum registration prices for coffee established 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL by Resolutions Nos. 566 and 641 and the contribution quota of US$26.29 a bag established by Resolution No. 647. November 29. Decree-Law No. 1248 specified cer- tain tax facilities for trading companies, henceforth referred to as commercial export companies. Manu- factured products sold to such companies were exempt from the IPI and ICM taxes. December 11. IBC Resolution No. 649 revoked the registration of coffee exports. December 15. The buying and selling exchange rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$6.130 and Cr$6.165 per US$1 to Cr$6.180 and Cr$6.215 per US$1, respectively. December 15. IBC Resolution No. 650 raised the contribution quota on exports of coffee from US$26.29 to US$26.64 a bag. The Resolution also re-established the system of individual export quotas for sales of coffee to traditional markets; sales of soluble coffee were not subject to the export quotas. The registration price was re-established with effect from December 18. December 27. An amendment to Decree-Law No. 1171 made Brazilian manufacturers of machinery and equipment sold on the domestic market eligible for certain tax facilities previously granted to exporters only. Eligibility would be established on a case-by-case basis by the Ministry of Finance. One of the condi- tions for eligibility was that payment must be received from foreign funds, i.e., registered capital investments or loans with a maturity in excess of five years. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Burmese Kyat, corresponding to K 4.7619 = SDR 1. The central rate is K 5.3487 per US$1, and Burma avails itself of wider margins. On December 30, 1972 the buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar of the Union of Burma Bank, the sole authorized dealer in foreign exchange, were K 5.3487 and K 5.4556, re- spectively, per U. S. dollar, and the Bank's buying and selling rates for sterling were K 13.9372 and K 14.2159, respectively, per «£ stg. 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board, in accordance with instructions f rom the Ministry of Planning and Finance, through the Ex- change Control Department of the Union of Burma Bank. Exports are handled by the Myanma Export- Import Corporation (MEIC or Trade Corporation No. 22 ). The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are determined by the Central Trade Council. Government agencies and departments make imports of goods for their own use, including imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most payments for imports are made in accordance with an annual foreign ex- change budget drawn up by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Prescription of Currency Certain settlements w i th Bangladesh are channeled through a special account at the Union of Burma Bank. Payments to other countries may be made in any for- eign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in con- vertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up a n n u a l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget. All impo r ts are made by, or in the n ame of, the MEIC. All impo r ts f rom Rho- desia and South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source — principally op ium and s im i lar narcotics, monkeys, play- ing cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion. Consumer goods imports are severely restricted. Most imports are pur- chased on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star Line whenever possible. All paymen ts for impor ts are made through the Union of Burma Bank. * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was be ing deva lued, Burma on February 13 changed its rate for the U. S. dollar to K 4.8138 = US$1. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-by-case basis. Pay- ments for membership fees to educational or technical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only by foreign municipal workers or foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government, the limit being one half of the net salary if the w ife is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the w ife is living in Burma. Remittances of income resulting f rom investment other than that guaranteed under the Investment Act have been suspended. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Govern- ment as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizen- ship before departure from Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring coun- tries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by resi- dents have been suspended. However, residents granted an official permit to go abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 50 in the cur- rency of the country of destination (except Ind ia) or, if that currency is not available, in s ter l ing notes or U. S. dollar notes. At present, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travel- ers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the amount of foreign currency which they had converted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the MEIC. There is a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper, and a lum inum and scraps thereof, foreign manu fac tu res, and commodities of domestic origin the conservation of which is desired for domestic requ i remen ts. All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner sa t is fac to ry to the exchange control au tho r i t i e s; the exchange must be surrendered to the Un ion of Bu rma Bank within six mon ths f rom the date of sh ipmen t. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c . i .f. basis are usua l ly shipped by the Bu rma Five Star Line or on vessels nom ina ted by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom inv is ib les must be surren- dered. Travelers may br ing in, subject to declaration, 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA any am o u nt in foreign cu r rency; foreign na t iona ls who in tend to stay for more than six mon ths must surrender all fo re ign exchange in their possession unless special perm iss ion is given to the con t ra ry. The impo rt of Bur- mese currency is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Bu rma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Bu rma Inves tment Act, 1959 and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under au tho r i ty of the Act. Inves tment proposals are to be considered by an Investment Committee, to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve fo re ign exchange, and genera l ly con fo rm to the eco- nomic plans of the Gove rnmen t. However, no private inves tmen ts have been made under the Act; since Feb- ruary 15, 1963, when the Gove rnment announced a new policy of na t iona l iza t ion, permission has not been granted for any fore ign private inves tment in Burma. The investment law provides for the t rans fer abroad of profits a f ter taxes and for the w i thd rawal of imported capital at any time after five years from the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. In principle, proceeds from the l iqu ida- tion or sale of an enterprise may also be t ran s fe r red abroad. All such transfers may, subject to prior approval, be made at the official rate of exchange pre- vailing at the time of the transaction. However, t rans fe rs of capital proceeds f rom the vo lun tary liquidation of foreign companies were suspended in July 1963. All outward t rans fe rs of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to rem it funds abroad for investment. The repa tr ia t ion of personal assets and the mak ing of fam i ly remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for fore ign na t iona ls employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may remit their personal savings when leaving the service. When the t ran s fer abroad of paymen ts in favor of non- residents is not perm i t ted, the authorities can allow such paymen ts to be credited to kyat nonresident accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior per- mission. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require ind iv idual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Bu rma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on beha lf of the monetary au thor i t ies of Burma. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewe lry is permitted under license, subject to the cond i t ion that the jewelry will be repa t r ia ted. No conditions are attached, how- ever, to the t ak ing out of pe r sonal jewe l ry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. industrial enterprises were Changes during 1972 During the year, quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports were tightened fu r th e r. January 1. Sixty-nine nationalized. February 7. The buy ing and selling rates for sterling were changed f rom 7.3402 pence and 7.0171 pence, respectively, per K 1, to 7.1750 pence and 7.0344 pence, respectively. These rates remained unchanged until June 26. March 23. A bilateral trade agreement with Bangla- desh was signed. Trade was to be conducted on a self-balancing basis; settlements were to be effected through an account denominated in sterling and held at the People's Bank of the Union of Burma. The agreement came into effect on the day of signature. June 16. A trade agreement with the U. S. S. R. was signed. Settlements would take place in convertible currencies. June 26. Following the floating of sterling, the People's Bank of the Union of Burma posted fixed buying and selling rates for U. S. dollars, of K 5.3487 and K 5.4556 per US$1. These rates were maintained unchanged throughout 1972. The Bank discontinued its fixed rates for sterling and instead quoted buy ing and selling rates for sterling that were ad jus ted f rom time to time to reflect the movement of sterling against the U. S. dollar in London. September 30. The People's Bank of the Union of Burma was renamed the Union of Burma Bank. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.00935443 g ram of fine gold per Bu rundi Franc, co r respond ing to FBu 95.0000 = SDR 1 or FBu 87.50 = US$ 1. B u r u n di has ava i led itself of wider marg ins. The exchange rates quoted by the Bank of the Repub l ic of B u r u n di ( the cen t ral b a n k) for the U. S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, are fixed at FBu 87.06 buy ing, and FBu 87.94 se l l ing, per US$1. The Bank quotes b u y i ng and selling rates for the Belgian f ranc based on the fixed rates for the U. S. do l lar and the off ic ial m a r k et ra tes for U. S. do l la rs in B russe ls; the Bank also quotes b u y i ng and selling rates for other spe- cified currencies 1 which are based either on its quoted rates for the Belgian f r anc and the off ic ial ma rket rates for the currencies concerned in Brussels, or, for the Rwanda f r a nc and the Tanzan ia sh i l l ing, on the ir par values. Au tho r ized banks must carry out permitted exchange transac t ions at the buy ing and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic of B u r u n di for currencies quoted by that Bank; they may agree rates freely with their customers for Kenya shillings and Uganda shillings. Buy ing rates lower than FBu 87.06 per U. S. do l lar app ly to proceeds f rom coffee exports shipped via K igoma, when the time between shipment and de l ivery of the fo re ign exchange exceeds two and a half calendar months. Administration of Control Control over fore ign exchange transac t ions and for- eign trade is vested in the Bank of the Repub l ic of Bu rund i; au tho r i ty to ca r ry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Outgoing paymen ts may be made in any currency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Bu rundi Francs may be ma in ta ined, subject to the approval of the cen tral bank, by ( 1) physical persons of fore ign nationality who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not con- sidered as residents, such as diplomats, and (2) ju r id i- cal persons of foreign na t iona l i ty with special status, such as fore ign embassies and in te rna t ional organiza- tions. These accounts may be credited f ree ly w i th the proceeds of fore ign currencies quoted by the central * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, Bu rundi on F eb ru a ry 20 decided to main- tain the par value of its cu r rency unchanged in terms of gold. The effec t ive pa r i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dollar became FBu 78.7501 = US$1. 1 Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Canad ian do l lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda f rancs, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, Tan- zania shillings, and U. S. dollars. bank and they may be debited freely for w i thd rawa ls of B u r u n di f r a n cs for any n o rm al cu r rent paymen ts in B u r u n di and for conversion in to fo re ign exchange (except b a n k n o t e s ). A ll o ther d eb i ts and c red i ts r e q u i re the p r ior approval of the cen tral bank. These accoun ts cannot bear in te rest and must not be ov e rd r awn. Cer ta in non res iden ts may m a in t a in Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currenc ies w i th an authorized bank. The open ing of such accoun ts requ i res the approval of the cen tral b ank and is restricted to ( 1) physical per- sons of fo re ign n a t i o n a l i ty who are resident abroad and (2) ju r id ical persons h av ing branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely w i th any fore ign exchange that is received f rom abroad. They may be debited free ly for ( 1) conversion in to Bu rundi f rancs required to pay any expenses in B u r u n di and (2) pay- ments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued up to FBu 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely, except for certain used clothing. App l ica t ions for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi on a fo rm entitled Import License and Pay- ment Au thor iza t ion. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the author- ized banks. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The license is valid for a period of seven months starting at the end of the month following that of va l ida t ion; in special cases, extensions may be granted by the central bank. The number and date of expiration of the license must be entered on the customs clearance fo rm, the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required for cer ta in luxu ry goods f rom pr iva te sector importers. The deposit on such commodities is 100 per cent; it is not required, however, when the goods are imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the time the import license application is subm i t ted; it is released when the import payment is made. In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the t ime of shipment of the goods. For certain prime necessities, however, documen tary credits may be opened for which exchange is supplied immediately. For 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made available un t il af ter customs clearance. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with brokers or insurers established in Bu rund i. Transfers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permitted upon proof of payment of taxes, up to 60 per cent of net annual income, depending on the amount of such income; this regime applies to earnings under a labor contract, to income earned in a profes- sion, and to profits earned by any enterprise operated by an individual or a partnership. Private joint-stock com- panies may freely transfer 50 per cent of net declared profits af ter taxes to their foreign nonresident stockhold- ers or to stockholders who are resident foreign nation- als; however, approved enterprises may obtain a guarantee of fu ll transferability of net declared profits. Persons leaving Bu rundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or of the proceeds of the sale of their personal effects. Transfer of income f rom rental properties to nonresident owners of foreign nationality is permitted up to 50 per cent of net rental income (a f ter payment of taxes and deduction of 20 per cent for maintenance expenses); resident owners of foreign nationality may remit the same proportion of such income. Residents of Bu rundi nationality may pur- chase needed amoun ts of exchange for foreign travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets up to reasonable amounts against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued at over FBu 3,000 are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange. The Declaration must be presented for certification by the central bank through an authorized bank, with the exception of those for certain export commodities (cotton and h ides ), which may be certified by authorized banks; for coffee exports, the central bank's visa is dependent on the prior advice of the Coffee Committee. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Except for coffee shipped via Kigoma, payments must be collected not later than 45 days a f ter the goods have left the coun try when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to o ther des t ina t ions. All exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days f rom their collection. However, the pro- ceeds f rom coffee shipped via Kigoma may be delivered to authorized banks 75 days after shipment; unfavorable 84 exchange rates are applied when surrender occurs more than 75 days af ter shipment. Virtually all exports, including coffee, are subject to export taxes and a sta- tistical tax. Exports of manufactured goods may receive a refund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that fu l f i l ls specified condi- tions as to amount and economic importance may be gran ted pr ior i ty status to wh ich specified privileges are attached, ma in ly in the form of exemptions f rom import duties and from taxes on income f rom the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, dur ing a period of 5 years, for other mer- chandise needed for the manu fac tu r ing operation or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may be likewise reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are granted priority status may obtain protection against foreign competition, p r io r i ty in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee from the central bank for the free t rans fer of profits and dividends as well as the repatriation of the invested capi- tal. In addition to these privileges, companies undertak- ing investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate conven t ion, a guaran tee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Investment Commission under the Minister of Planning is charged with exam- in ing requests for priority status and g ran t ing the neces- sary authorization. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, which is rarely given, except in the case of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in any of the currencies quoted by the central bank by resident enterprises for working capital pur- poses and is valid for one year from the date on which the exchange is surrendered to the central bank through an authorized bank. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the offi- cial rate ruling on the day of transfer. Gold Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through the central bank. All other private dealing in gold is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prohibited. The central bank purchases unrefined gold from domestic producers at FBu 100 a gram.2 Af ter refining abroad, this gold is included in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the central bank, with the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1972 January 11. The Fund noted that Burundi availed itself of wider margins under paragraph 3 of Executive Board Decision No. 3463 - (71 /126 ). May 18. New regulations were issued for exports of coffee when shipped via Kigoma. These provided for dif- ferent buy ing rates according to the time elapsed between shipment and delivery of the foreign currency proceeds. The buying rate of FBu 87.06 per U. S. dollar was ap- plicable only when this period did not exceed two and a half calendar months, and progressively lower buying rates were set for longer periods; for a period of between four and five months, for example, the buying rate was only FBu 85.75 per U. S. dollar. May 18. Unless prior central bank approval to the contrary was obtained, shipping insurance on coffee 2 Increased to FBu 135 a gram on January 9, 1973. BURUNDI exports had to be taken out in Burundi francs with brokers or insurers established in Burundi. May 18. For coffee exports, the central bank's visa on the Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange was made dependent on the advice of the Coffee Committee. August 5. Burundi advised the GATT that it had some time ago ceased to invoke the provisions of Arti- cle XXXV in respect of Japan. November 2. The par value was changed from 0.0101562 to 0.00935443 gram of fine gold per Burundi franc. The new par value replaced the central rate of FBu 87.50 = US$1. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at FBu 87.50 = US$1. The central bank's fixed buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar also remained unchanged, at FBu 87.06 and FBu 87.94. The Fund noted that Burundi availed itself of wider margins under para- graph 1 of the above-mentioned Fund Decision. November 15. Foreign exchange for goods imported under global import licenses henceforth was not made available until af ter customs clearance. December 29. Restrictions on transfers of profits were introduced and restrictions on transfers of rents were intensified. 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Exchange System * No par va lue for the currency of Cameroon has been established w i th the Fund. The u n it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is o f f ic ia l ly m a in t a in ed at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c. Exchange transactions in French f r an c s, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, between the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique Equa tor ia le et du Cameroun (BCEAEC )2 and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commis- sion charges. Exchange transactions re la t ing to fore ign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies of the French Franc Area, take place in a dual exchange marke t, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial f r anc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are paymen ts and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other current transac t ions, as well as all current paymen ts by or in favor of domes- tic and fore ign pub l ic a u t h o r i t i es and pub l ic bodies. All other settlements w i th fore ign coun tr ies, as well as transactions in bankno tes of fore ign countries and bank- notes issued by the BCEAEC, take place through the financial f ranc ma rket at free ly fluctuating rates. The pr inc ipal current payments and receipts channeled through the financial f r a nc ma rket are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remit- tances. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effec t ive parity rela- tionship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 = US$1. With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Cameroon itself, are * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was be ing deva lued, the exchange ra te of CFAF 1 = F. 0.02 was m a i n t a i n e d, and the e f fec t ive p a r i ty re la t ion sh ip for the U. S. dollar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. The ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was also m a in t a in ed on Ma rch 19, 1973 when new exchange ra te arrangemen ts be tween the French f r anc and certain other currencies came in to e f f e c t. 1 The CFA f ranc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, and Gabon. 2 Ear ly in 1973, the BCEAEC was replaced by the Banque des E ta ts de 1'Afr ique Centrale (BEAC ). 86 considered foreign countries and, in pr inc ip le, f inanc ial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol is adm in is te red by the Sub- D i rec to ra te of F inanc ial Ope ra t ions in the D irec tora te of Economic Con tro ls, M i n i s t ry of Finance, wh ich also supe rv ises bo r row ing and l end ing abroad, the issu ing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign securities in Cameroon, and inward and outward direct investment. All exchange transac t ions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be effected through authorized in termed iar ies, i.e., the Postal Adm in is tra t ion and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Indus- trial and Commercial Development. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is an Operations Account coun t ry of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- men ts w i th France, Monaco, and the o ther Operations Account coun tr ies of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f ranc s, French f rancs, or the currency of any o ther Operations Account coun try. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f r an cs th rough Foreign or Financial Accoun ts in Francs. All se t t lemen ts between Cameroon and Por tuga l, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAEC bank- notes may be credited to F inanc ial Accoun ts in Francs when mailed direct to the Yaounde agency of the BCEAEC by the fore ign correspondents of authorized banks. imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted. The import f rom all sources of ce r ta in "controlled" goods requires a special au tho r iza t ion (autorisation speciale d'importation)', when these goods are imported f rom countries o ther than France or the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, they require in addition an import license. The import of rice, flour, and sugar is subject to special procedures. Other imports f rom France and the Opera- tions Account countries in the French Franc Area do not require a license. All other impor ts are sub ject to licensing, but licenses are issued free ly. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution value exceeds CFAF 25,000. Import licenses entitle impor ters to pu rchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted f ree ly; those to other coun- tries are sub ject to the approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are permitted f ree ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au tho r iza t ion. Transfers of income accru ing to nonres iden ts in the form of prof i ts, d iv idend s, and royalties are also per- mitted f ree ly when the basic transac t ion has been approved. For tourist trave l, residents trave l ing to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any for- eign exchange r em a i n i ng a f ter re tu rn to Cameroon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is an allocation of the equ iva lent of CFAF 15,000 a day, sub ject to a m ax imum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. The t rans fer of rent f rom real property owned in Cameroon by fo re ign na t iona ls is limited in principle to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation pur- poses. Rem i t tances for current repair and management of real proper ty abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The t rans fer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner work ing in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the t rans fer takes place w i th in one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of for- eigners work ing in Cameroon temporarily, payments to foreign countries of insurance premiums are not per- mitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 in BCEAEC banknotes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected within a month of the date of arrival at their destination and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account CAMEROON country must be surrendered within a month af ter collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area may be re ta ined. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected w i t h in a mon th of the due date and surrendered w i th in a mon th of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may b r ing in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to foreign countries may transfer abroad their fu ll savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cam- eroon; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securi- ties in Cameroon, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. The provisions of Decree No. 677 DF /3 65, which introduced these special controls, have been suspended insofar as they are con- trary to Decree No. 687DF/460, on which the present exchange controls are based. All foreign securities, for- eign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresi- dents must be deposited with an authorized intermedi- ary, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. investments ab road3 Direct require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial liqui- dation of such investments requires only a report ex 3 Inc lud ing those made through the intermediary of fore ign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies of Cameroon. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a par t ic ipa t ion that had pre- viously been approved as constituting the making of a direct inves tment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Came roon4 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or par t ial liquidation of direct investments in Cam- eroon requires only reporting ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct invest- ment in Cameroon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cam- eroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of for- eign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to h im. Exempt f rom authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroon ian Gove rnmen t, and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Cameroon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of ju r id ical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s ter of F inance, and must subsequently be reported to h im. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this au tho r iza t ion, and require only a report ex post: (a) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been ob ta ined, as ind ica ted above; (b) loans directly con- nected w i th the rende r ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men t ioned above, or w i th the financ- ing of commercial transac t ions either between Cam- eroon and coun tr ies abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in wh ich these persons or firms take part; (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institu- tions; and (d) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount ou t s tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower, 4 In c lud ing those made by compan ies in Came roon t h at a re d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly u n d er fo re ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of fo re ign companies. their duration does not exceed two years, and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. Lending abroad by physical and jur id ical persons, whe ther public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of ju r id ical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and must sub- sequently be reported to h im. The following are, how- ever, exempt f rom prior authorization and are subject only to a report ex post: (a) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been ob ta ined, as ind ica ted above; (b) loans directly con- nected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the financ- ing of commercial t ran sac t ions either between Cam- eroon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tr ies, in which these persons or firms take part; and (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit ins t i tu t ions. An Inves tment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits wh ich may be granted to both foreign and domes t ic f irms u n d e r t a k i ng approved new indu s t r ial or agr icu l tural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benef i ts vary depending on the size of the inves tmen t, the degree to wh ich it helps implement the economic and social deve lopment p lan, and its impor tance to na t ional economic growth. Category A pe rm i ts mainly du ty - f ree en t ry of cap i tal goods and raw materials required for m anu f a c tu r ing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be en t i t led to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years f rom the tax on indu s t r i al and commerc ial prof i ts and from var ious other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Governmen t, under wh ich special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the n a tu re and extent of tax concessions are de te rm ined. Norma l ly, an "establishment agreement" is va l id for 25 years and def ines also the legal, economic, and finan- cial guaran tees gran ted to the company, inc lud ing the assurance of stable cond i t ions for financial t rans fe rs and ma rke t ing of goods. Category D gran ts to firms mak ing inves tmen ts of p a r t i cu l ar s ign if icance to the na t ional economy the bene f i ts of Category C, as well as a gua ran tee of s tab i l i ty of taxation for up to 25 years. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewe l ry in Cameroon. They requ ire the approval of the Directorate of M ines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is no rma l ly given only to indus tr ial users, inc lud ing jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, wh ich authorizes e i ther its expor ta t ion or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON exports of gold requ ire prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, wh ich is seldom gran ted for imports. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au thor i t ies, and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1972 April 1. The import program for 1972 became effec- tive. A number of commodities were added to the list of those that required a special authorization from all sources. These included stockfish, specified canned and prepared meat, certain alcoholic beverages, soap and detergents, and specified textile products. May. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, a number of current transactions were shifted from the financial f ranc market to the official exchange market. The principal current payments and receipts that continued to be channeled through the financial franc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remittances. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.822021 gram of fine gold per Canad ian Dollar. Since May 31, 1970, however, the authorities have not ma in ta ined the exchange rate of the Canad ian dollar w i th in prescribed margins, and the re fo re all transac t ions, for the time being, take place at a f l u c t u a t i ng exchange ra te. The closing f ree ma rket rate for the U .S. dollar on December 30, 1972 was Can$0.9950 per US$1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on fore ign paymen ts. On March 25, 1952, Canada no t if ied the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. In implementation of UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (68) of May 29, 1968, payments and transfers to Rhodesia are restricted. Imports and Import Payments Payments and t ran s fe rs abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for ce r ta in drugs, for a few agr icu l tural items, inc lud ing certain cereals, for certain tex t i le products, for gasoline and na tural gas, and for ma ter ial and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some of the ag r icu l tu ral items, such as most dairy products, licenses are gener- ally not being issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities from any source are generally proh ib i ted; these include oleomargarine, used automobiles, second- hand a ircraf t, certain periodicals, and goods of Rho- desian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is und er export control.1 For security reasons, the export of certain specified commodities to all destinations except the United States is under export control. All exports to A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, m a i n l a nd Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany and East Ber- lin, Hungary, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Po land, Rho- desia, Romania, North Viet-Nam, and U. S. S. R. are subject to control, although certain goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations, with the exception of Rhodesia, under the au thor i ty of a gen- eral export permit. The export of all goods to Rhodesia * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the Canad ian authorities on February 20 stated that they wou ld continue to allow basic ma rket forces to deter- mine the value of the Canadian dollar and that the Bank of Canada would continue to restrict its intervention to ma in ta in ing an orderly marke t. 1 On February 15, 1973 exports of crude oil were made subject to quota restriction. 90 is prohibited, except medical supplies, news material, educa t ional equ ipment and ma ter ia ls for use in educa- tional ins t i tu t ions, and books, magaz ines, and period- icals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requ i remen ts are imposed on exchange paymen ts fo r, or exchange receipts f r om, invisibles. Capital No exchange con t rol requ i remen ts are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by res iden ts or nonresi- dents. Cer ta in n o nm a n d a t o ry gu ide l ines issued in 1966 and 1968 apply to ( 1) a ll C an ad i an investors, w i th respect to the acqu is i t ion of "offshore" secur i t ies issued by U. S. compan ies and the ir fo re ign sub s id ia r ies for sale ou ts ide the Un i ted States; (2) char tered banks and other financial in s t i tu t ions w i th respect to their fore ign assets and l iab i l i t ies; and ( 3) to compan ies incorporated in Canada with respect to t ran s fe rs of capital to overseas countries. The pr inc ipal exemptions f rom these gu ide l ines relate to export financing designed to facilitate Canadian exports, and to Canadian dollar term loans to, and C an ad i an dollar securities issued or guaran teed by, the cen tral governments or central banks of developing countries. The M in is ter of F inance and the Bank of Canada have asked Canad ian borrowers to ca re fu l ly explore the po ten t ia l i t ies of the C an ad i an mar- ket before o f fe r ing securities for sale abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Under the Emergency Gold M in ing Assistance Act of 1948, all mines receiv- ing subsidies are required to sell their new ly m ined gold to the Royal Canadian M int at US$38 a fine ounce. A f ter ref in ing, this gold is disposed of in the free market to established wholesale dealers by the Bank of Canada, acting as agent for the Gove rnmen t. Exports of gold are subject to the fo l low ing cond i t ions: ( 1) exports to A lban ia, Bulgaria, ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany and East Be r l in, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, North Viet-Nam, and U. S. S. R. are included among those exports subject to control and require a license f rom the Depar tment of Indus t ry, Trade and Commerce; (2) gold not of Canadian origin may only be re-exported to a country other than the United States when covered by a permit issued by the M in is ter of Indus try, Trade and Commerce under the au tho r i ty of the Export and Import Permits Act; and ( 3) owing to the general embargo on trade with Rhodesia, movemen ts of gold to or f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Commercial imports of articles containing m inor quan t i t ies of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1972 May 2. The G o v e r nm e nt i n t r o d u c ed a b i ll w h i ch wou ld e s tab l i sh a sc reen ing m e ch an i sm to r u le on proposed fo re ign take -ove rs of C a n a d i a n - c o n t r o l l ed businesses. The b i ll was not enac ted. (A proposed Foreign I n v e s tm e nt R e v i ew A ct w as i n t r o d u c ed in P a r l i am e nt on J a n u a ry 24, 1973 .) May 8. The b u y i ng p r ice of the R o y al C a n a d i an M i nt for n ew ly p roduced go ld w as in c r e a s ed f r om US$35 to US$38 an ounce. May 16. The Bank of C a n a da w i t h d r ew i ts request of December 16, 1967 to C a n a d i an banks and o ther f in an c i al in te rmed ia r ies to r e f r a in f r om ex t end ing cred it on gold or on o ther secu r i ty for the pu rchase of gold and not to fac i l i ta te f o rw a rd pu rchases of gold. May 25. The 1966 and 1968 gu ide l ines on cap i tal outflows we re revised, re t roac t ive to Ma rch 31, 1972, to bring the Canad ian program more closely in to l ine with the U. S. p rog ram. ( 1) Securities denom ina ted in Canad ian do l lars issued or gu a r an t e ed by cen t ral gov- ernmen ts or c en t r al banks of deve lop ing coun tr ies became exempt f rom the 1966 gu ide l ine, under which all Canad ian investors ( ind iv idua ls and corpora t ions) were requested not to acquire "offshore" securities issued by U. S. companies and their foreign subsidiaries for sale outside the United States. (2) Canadian dollar term loans by banks and nonbank financial ins t i tu t ions made to or guaran teed by central governmen ts or central banks of developing countries became exempt from the 1968 guidelines. New export financing in fore ign cur- rency or Canadian dollars by banks and nonbank financial ins t i tu t ions, designed to fac i l i ta te Canad ian exports also became exempt f rom the 1968 guidelines, under which these ins t i tu t ions were asked not to increase their foreign currency claims on res iden ts of countries other than Canada or the United States unless such an increase was accompanied by an equal increase in the total foreign currency liabilities to such countries or arose f rom net earn ings of foreign branches or sub- sidiaries. (In March 1971, banks and nonbank financial institutions had been in fo rmed that t ran s fe rs of Cana- dian dollars to res iden ts of th i rd coun t r ies should be CANADA regarded in the same way as t r a n s f e rs of o ther cu r- renc ies .) June 8. Order in C o u n c il P.C. 1972-1305 am e n d ed t he A n t i -D um p i ng R e g u l a t i o n s. June 10. The a u t h o r i t i es app rov ed an a g r e em e nt among t he cha r te red banks u n i f o r m ly to r edu ce t he i n t e r e st rates pa id on n o n p e r s o n al t e rm and n o t i ce depos i ts by close to 1 p e r c en t age p o i n t. June 12. The char tered b anks a n n o u n c ed t h a t, w i th the c o n c u r r e n ce of the M i n i s t er of F i n a n c e, t h ey had agreed to pay no more than 5*/2 per cent on deposits of Can$ 100,000 or more for t e rms of less t h an one year. (On November 27, char tered banks reduced the re levant in te re st ra tes by a f u r t h er Vs-14 percen tage po in t s .) June 26. The Gov e rnm ent in t roduced a b i ll con- ta in ing legislation for the es tab l ishment of a genera l ized system of ta r i ff preferences for specified goods originat- ing in developing countries. The bill was not enac ted because a general election in tervened in October, but steps were subsequently taken to reintroduce the bill. July 10. The Government announced that, although it preferred the provinces to borrow at home, it would set up an information center to assist provincial govern- ments to borrow money in foreign markets in an orderly fashion, by spacing out their foreign borrowings. July 27. Order in Council P.C. 1972-1716 introduced procedures to take effect on September 1 under which foreign exporters must declare to the customs authori- ties on a "special exporters' declaration," for all ship- ments valued at Can$ 10,000 or more, (a) whether their company or any other company was entitled to a reduc- tion, deferral, or exemption from corporate income taxes in respect of income earned on exports and (b) whether these facilities affected the sale prices of the goods concerned. October 3. Export restraint arrangements with major supplying countries were announced with respect to the import of certain knitted fabrics. November 15. A gold futures market was opened by the Winnipeg Commodity Exchange. Access to this market was open to residents and nonresidents. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Exchange System * No par value for the currency of the Central Afr ican Republic has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the interven- tion currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC)2 and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, take place in a dual exchange marke t, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other current transactions, as well as all current payments by or in favor of domes- tic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. All other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and bank- notes issued by the BCEAEC, take place through the financial f ranc market at freely fluctuating rates. The principal current payments and receipts channeled through the financial f r a nc ma rket are those relating to travel expenses, capital earn ings, and workers' remit- tances. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 = US$1. An exchange tax of 2V2 per cent (sub ject to a m in i- mum of CFAF 500) is levied on most exchange t r an s- actions w i th, and paymen ts to, coun tr ies o ther th an France, Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account countries. In add i t ion to paymen ts to the coun t r ies men t ioned, the f o l l ow i ng are exemp t: ( 1) t ransac t ions of less than CFAF 12,500; (2) all opera t ions r e l a t i ng to fo re ign exchange receipts; ( 3) fo re ign cu r rency a l lowances for t ravel to countries other than France, Monaco, or the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ie s; (4) gov e rnm ent expend i- tu res in coun t r i es other t h an France, Monaco, or the Op e r a t ions Account coun t r i e s; (5) t ran sac t ions of in t e r- n a t i o n al organ iza t ions and embass ies; and (6) t ran sac- * Fo l low ing the a n n o u n c em e nt on F eb ru a ry 12, 1973 th at the U. S. dollar was be ing deva lued, the ex ch ange ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was m a i n t a i n e d, and the e f f e c t i ve p a r i ty r e l a t i o n s h ip for the U. S. dollar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. The r a te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was also m a i n t a i n ed on March 19, 1973 when new e x c h a n ge ra te a r r a n g em e n ts be tween the F rench f r a nc and c e r t a in o th er cu r r en c i es came i n to e f f e c t. 1 The CFA f r a nc c i r cu l a t ing in the Cen t ral A f r i c an R epub l ic is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de I 'A f r ique Equa to r ia le et du C am e roun (BCEAEC) and is legal t e n d er also in Came roon, Chad, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, and Gabon. - E a r ly in 1973, the BCEAEC was rep laced by the B a n q ue des E t a ts de I 'A f r i q ue Cen tra le (B EAC ). 92 tions carried out with the member countries of the EEC. With the exception of those relating to gold, the Central A f r ican Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except the Central African Republic itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign coun- tries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances on the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated this approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the BCEAEC,3 to the author- ized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to fore ign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the Min- istry of Mines and Geology. Prescription of Currency The Cen t ral A f r i c an Repub l ic is an Operations Account coun t ry of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC m a i n t a i ns an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the French T r e a s u r y; se t t lemen ts w i th France, Monaco, and the o ther Opera t ions Account coun t r ies of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f rancs, French francs, or the cu r rency of any o ther ins t i tu te of issue that main- ta ins an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the French Treasury. Se t t lemen ts w i th a ll o ther coun tr ies are usua l ly made in any of the cu r renc ies of those coun t r ies or in French f rancs th rough Foreign Accoun ts in Francs or Financial Accounts in Francs.4 : !The a u t h o r i ty de lega ted to the BCEAEC relates to (a) the con- trol over the ex te rnal position of the banks, and (b) the g ran t ing of excep t ional t ravel a l l o c a t i o ns in excess of the basic allowances. 4 There is an inopera t ive b i la te ral paymen ts arrangement with the Sudan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs, related to the official exchange marke t, and Financial Accounts in Francs, related to the financial franc mar- ket. BCEAEC banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAEC in Bangui by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks may freely be credited to Financial Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. The import from all countries of a few commodities also produced domestically is prohibited. The import of certain foods tuffs is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of certain goods, when not originating in a member country of the UDEAC, may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespec- tive of origin. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. All other imports from EEC coun- tries also are free from quantitative restrictions. Imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing within the framework of an annual import program of an indicative character. All import t ransac t ions re la t ing to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. The import license en t i t les importers to purchase the necessary exchange, prov ided that the sh ipp ing documents are subm i t ted to the au thor ized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted f ree ly; those to other coun- tries are subject to approva l. For many types of pay- ment the approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are perm i t ted free ly when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require au thor iza- tion. T ran s fe rs of income acc ru ing to non res iden ts in the form of prof i ts, dividends, and royalties are also permitted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists t rave l ing to coun t r ies other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing after return to the Cen tral A f r i c an Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed coun- tries; the allocation is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a tr ip, for business travel to any other foreign coun try; of this allocation, an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign bank- notes. The t rans fer of the en t ire net salary of a foreigner work ing in the Central Afr ican Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other fore ign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on en t ry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BCEAEC bankno tes into foreign cur- rency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area require licenses, which are issued freely. The Na t ional Marke t ing Office for Agr icu l tural Products has a monopoly over the export of agricultural products. Proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated w i th in one mon th from the due da te; the la t ter generally must fa ll w i th in 180 days of sh ipmen t. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account coun t ry must be surrendered. All export trans- actions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected w i th in a mon th of the due date and, if received in fore ign currency, surrendered w i th in a mon th of the da te of receipt. Res ident and non res ident travelers may b r ing in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Capital Cap i tal movemen ts between the Central A f r ican Repub l ic and France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account coun t r ies in the French Franc Area are f ree of exchange con t ro l; cap i tal t ran s fe rs to all other coun tr ies requ i re exchange control app roval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted free ly. All fore ign borrowing by the govern- ment or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all fore ign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budg- et within the M in is try of Finance. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts th at may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over bo r row ing and lend ing abroad, over inward and outward direct inve s tmen t, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or o f f e r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or in troduc t ion of fore ign securities in the Central A f r i c an Republic, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 5 require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resu l t ing f rom reinvestment of und is t r ibu ted p ro f i ts; the fu ll or p a r t i al l iqu ida t ion of such inves tmen ts also requires the prior approval of the M in is try of F inance unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a par t ic ipa t ion that had previously been approved as cons t i tu t ing the mak ing of a direct invest- ment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic 6 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during wh ich he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or par t ial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in the Cen- tral African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the mak ing of a direct investment in the Central A f r ican Republic. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whe ther Central African Republic investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in the Central A f r ican Republic, must be reported 6 Including those made through the in te rmed ia ry of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. 6 Including those made by companies in the Central A f r ican Repub- lic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of foreign companies. 94 to the Minister w i th in 20 days following each opera- tion. Direct inves tmen ts are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct investment, provided th at it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issu ing, adve r t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Cen tral A f r i c an Republic requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s ter of Finance. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, are opera t ions in connec t ion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gua ran tee f rom the Cen tral A f r ican Repub l ic Gove rnment and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issu ing, adve r t is ing, or offer ing for sale in the Cen tral A f r i c an Repub l ic has previously been au tho r ized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whe ther public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Central A f r ican Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central A f r ican Republic of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; ( 2) loans directly connected with the render ing of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between the Cen- tral A f r ican Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authori- zation, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central Afr ican Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign- Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution amended by O rd inance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, indu s t r ia l, tou r is t, ag r icu l tu ra l, and m in ing enterprises (bo th fore ign and domestic) established in the Cen tral A f r ican Repub l ic are gran ted, under cer- t a in cond i t ion s, reduced du t i es and taxes on the impo rt of specified equ ipmen t; in add i t ion, ce r ta in enterprises receive exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of prefer- ential t rea tmen t, in accordance w i th which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms inves t ing in new enterprises or in the expansion of ex is t ing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the territory of the Central A f r ican Republic; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the terr i tory of two or more states of the fo rmer Equa- torial Customs Un ion. Preferential treatment C, which contains the most favo rab le provisions, is reserved for enterprises of pr ime importance to the country's eco- nomic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for p re fe ren t ial trea tment must be submitted to the M in i s t er of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which con- siders the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are gran ted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferen t ial trea tment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Union upon the recom- mendation of the Council of Ministers. CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in the Cen tral A f r i c an Republic. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any o ther country requ ire a license, which is seldom gran ted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) impo r ts and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a minor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic le s ). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been off ic ia l ly appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes during 1972 April 27. Ordinance No. 72/035 created a National Diamond Office. May. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, a number of current transactions were shifted from the financial f ranc market to the official exchange market. The principal current pay- ments and receipts that continued to be channeled through the financial f ranc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remittances. June 24. Presidential Decree No. 72/186 provided that all draft legislation, decisions, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State required the prior approval of the Minister of Finance. June 29. Ministry of Finance Order No. 0149 dele- gated the approval authority provided for in Decree No. 727186 to the Director of the Budget. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Exchange System * No par value for the currency of Chad has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is off ic ia l ly maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC)2 and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange t ransac t ions re la t ing to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, take place in a dual exchange marke t, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris exchange rate for the fore ign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the finan- cial f ranc marke t. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other cu r rent transactions, as well as current paymen ts by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies (col- lectivites publiques). All other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transac t ions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the BCEAEC, take place through the f inanc ial f ranc ma rket at f ree ly f luc- tua t ing rates. The principal current paymen ts and receipts channeled through the financial f ranc market are those re la t ing to travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remittances. Exchange rates in the official ma rket are based on par values and central rates; the effec t ive pa r i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dollar in this ma rket is CFAF 255.785 = US$1. W i th the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Territories (except the French Terr i tory of the A f a rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun tr ies whose b a nk of issue is l inked w i th the F rench T reasu ry by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Cen t ral A f r i c an Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Ma lagasy Repub l ic, Ma l i, M a u r i t a n i a, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun t r ies may be made f ree ly. All o ther coun tr ies, except Chad i tse l f, are con- s ide red fo r e ign c o u n t r i e s, a nd in p r i n c i p le f i n a n c i al re la t ions o n ly w i th fo re ign coun tr ies a re subject to exchange con tro l. * Following the announcement on F e b r u a ry 12, 1973 t h at the U. S. dollar was b e ing d ev a lu ed, the exchange ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was ma in ta ined, and the e f fec t ive p a r i ty r e l a t ion sh ip for the U. S. dollar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. 1 The CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in Chad is issued by the B anque Cen t ra le des E t a ts de 1 'A f r ique E q u a t o r i a le et du C am e roun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Came roon, the C e n t r al A f r i c an R epub l i c, the People's R e p u b l ic of the Congo, and Gabon. 2 Ea r ly in 1973, the BCEAEC was replaced by the B anque des E ta ts de 1'Afrique Cen t ra le (B EAC ). 96 Administration of Control The Office of the Minister of Finance supervises borrowing and lend ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and ou tward direct inves tmen t; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is also adm in is tered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval au thor i ty in part to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try, except those for gold. Prescription of Currency Chad is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French T reasu ry; settle- ments with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French f rancs, or the currency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that m a in t a ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the U. S. S. R. are made th rough special accoun ts estab- lished in accordance with a paymen ts agreement. Settle- ments w i th all other countries are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f r an cs th rough Foreign or Financial Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAEC bank- notes may be credited f ree ly to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs ma in ta ined by the fo re ign co r responden ts of au thor ized banks, provided th at the notes are mailed direct to the BCEAEC agency in Chad by the corre- spondent banks concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom all sources of whea t, wheat flour, and sugar requ ire licenses. All other impo r ts f rom coun tr ies in the French Franc Area and f rom EEC coun tr ies o ther t h an F rance may be made f r e e l y. A ll impor ts f rom non-EEC coun t r ies ou ts ide the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance w i th an annu al impo rt program. This p rog ram and the amount of for- eign exchange required to imp lement it are determined by the M in i s t er of Commerce and Indu s t ry on the basis of proposa ls d rawn up by the Comm i t tee on Impor ts and discussed by a j o i nt French-Chad ian Comm i t tee. The import p rog ram con ta ins global quo tas for impor ts f rom non-EEC coun t r i es outside the French Franc Area and a special quo ta for impor ts of cot- ton tex t i les f r om coun t r ies w i th abno rmal competitive advantages. In add i t ion, the program contains global ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EEC countries. Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Specified imports from neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area ( the Libyan Arab Republic, N iger ia, and the Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation trans- actions. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle import- ers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documen ts are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports from foreign coun- tries is only pe rm i t ted for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted free ly; those to other coun- tries are subject to app rova l. For many types of pay- ment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are perm i t ted f ree ly when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also per- mitted freely when bona fide. For tourist travel, resi- dents trave l ing to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange rema in ing a f t er r e tu rn to Chad must be sur- rendered. For business travel to fore ign coun tr ies, there is a special allocation of the equ iv a l ent of up to CFAF 400,000 a person a t r ip; the Office of the Min- ister of Finance may issue excep t ional a l loca t ions in excess of CFAF 400,000. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC bankno tes. Travelers to other coun t r ies may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. A resident going abroad for less than 24 hours may not take out more than CFAF 5,000 in CFA bankno tes. Nonresident travelers may take out fore ign bank- notes and co ins up to the amount declared by them on en try, or, if no dec lara t ion has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; they may reconvert into fo re ign cu r rency BCEAEC bankno tes up to CFAF 25,000 that have been obtained f rom the sale of foreign means of paymen ts th at were dec lared upon entry. CHAD Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are proh ib- ited. All exports to non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to the L ibyan A rab Repub l ic, N iger ia, and the Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monoply of COTONTCHAD. Export t ransac t ions re la t ing to fore ign coun t r ies must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank when the ir value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies o ther t h an those of France or an Operations Account coun t ry must be surrendered. Export pro- ceeds no rma l ly must be received w i t h in 180 days a f ter the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a fo re ign cu r rency, w i t h in two mon ths of the due da te. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from fore ign assets must be collected, and if received in for- eign currency surrendered, w i th in two mon ths of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) and other for- eign means of paymen t. Capital Cap i tal movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and other Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies in the French Franc Area are f ree of exchange con tro l; capi- tal t rans fe rs to all other coun t r ies requ ire exchange control approval and are res tr ic ted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are perm i t ted free ly. All fore ign secur i t ies, foreign cu r rency, and t i t les embody ing c la ims on fo re ign coun tr ies or non res iden ts that are held in Chad by residents or non re s iden ts must be deposited w i th au tho r ized b anks in Chad. Special con tro ls ( add i t ion al to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be app l icab le or suspended inso- far as they wou ld be con t ra ry to the exchange control regu la t ion s) are ma in ta ined over bo r row ing and lend- ing ab road, over i nw a rd and o u tw a rd d i rect inve s tmen t, and over the issu ing, adve r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fore ign secur i t ies in Chad; these con t ro ls relate to the transactions themselves, not to p aym en ts or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or in t roduc- tion of f o r e i gn secu r i t ies in Chad, the con t rol measures do not app ly to re la t ions w i th France and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the A f a rs and the Issas), Monaco, and those 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD o ther coun t r ies whose b ank of issue is l ink ed w i th the French T reasu ry by an Ope ra t ions Accoun t. Direct inves tmen ts abroad 3 requ i re the prior ap- p roval of the M i n i s t er of F inance un less they take the fo rm of a capital increase resu l t ing f rom reinvestment of und i s t r ibu t ed p ro f i ts; the f u ll or p a r t i al l iqu ida t ion of such inve s tmen ts also requ i res the p r ior approval of the M i n i s t er of F inance, un l e ss the ope ra t ion involves the r e l inqu i sh ing of a pa r t ic ipa t ion that had prev ious ly been approved as cons t i tu t ing the mak ing of a direct inves tment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Chad 4 requ i re pr ior dec la ra t ion to the M in i s ter of Finance, unless they take the fo rm of a cap i tal increase result- ing from r e inv e s tm ent of und i s t r ibu t ed p ro f i ts; the M in i s t er has a period of two m o n t hs f rom receipt of the dec lara t ion d u r i ng wh i ch he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of d irect investments in Chad must also be dec lared to the M in is ter of Finance, unless the operation invo lves the r e l inqu i sh ing of a participa- tion th at had previously been approved as constituting the mak ing of a d irect inves tment in Chad. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or for- eign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Min- ister of Finance w i th in 20 days following each opera- tion. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of for- eign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Min- ister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Chad 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 4 Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under fore ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 98 and coun t r ies abroad or between fore ign countries, in w h i ch these persons or f irms take p a r t; (3) loans con- trac ted by registered b a n k s; and (4) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount out- s tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under ( 4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Min- ister of Finance w i th in 20 days of the opera t ion, unless the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by phys ical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of ju r id ical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this au tho r iza t ion: (1) loans g ran ted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of au tho r iza t ion, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the amount of the loan is less than CFAF 500,000, pro- vided, however, that the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Commercial banks must ma in ta in in Chad a specified m in imum proportion of their assets. This ratio is 7 per cent of rediscountable credit granted in 1971 plus 10 per cent of the nonrediscountable credit. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treat- ment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in speci- fied new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Commerce and Industry, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Invest- ment Commission. Af ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Coun- cil of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued five gold coins of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, and CFAF 20,000 which are legal tender. Ordinance No. 3 /PR /TP of February 10, 1968 concerning nonmone- tary gold (ratified by Law No. 23 of June 4, 1968), in conjunction with relevant exchange control regulations, governs the holding, sale, import, circulation, export, and processing of gold and diamonds. Residents who are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD not producers of gold may not hold unwo rk ed gold un less they have ob ta ined an au tho r iza t ion issued by the President ac t ing on the adv ice of the M in is ter of Mines. Imports and exports of gold, whe ther unworked or refined, requ i re p r ior au tho r iza t ion by the Office of the M in is ter of F inance and by the D irec tora te of M ines and Geology as we ll as the visa of the Foreign Trade Office in the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry. Exempt f rom th is requ i rement are (1) impo r ts and exports by or on beha lf of the mone tary au tho r i t i es and (2) impor ts and exports of m a n u f a c t u r ed a r t ic les con- ta in ing a m i n or q u a n t i ty of gold (such as go ld-f i l led or gold-plated articles). Expor ts of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as we ll as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of an approved Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAV IE ), which is a p r i v a te company. Unwo rked gold may be exported on ly to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub ject to customs dec lara t ion. Changes during 1972 D u r i ng the year f o l l ow i ng a s im i l ar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, a numb er of cu r r ent trans- actions were in effect sh i f t ed f rom the f inanc ial f ranc ma rket to the o f f i c i al exchange ma rke t. No exchange con trol r egu l a t ions to th is effect were issued, however. February 18. The Directorate-General of the Budget and the Pub l ic Accoun ts, in the M in i s t ry of Finance, was abolished. The exchange control powers prev ious ly delegated by the M in i s ter of Finance were t rans fe r red from the Directorate-General to the Office of the Min- ister of Finance. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange Rate System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (which was in troduced on J anu a ry 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par v a lue for the Chilean peso established w i th the Fund on October 5, 1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange marke ts: the off ic ial market (known as the b a n k i ng ma rke t) and the brokers' market. On ly the Cen t ral Bank, the Banco del Estado, au thor- ized commerc ial banks, and other persons or entities au tho r ized by the Central Bank may operate in these markets; brokers are not at present pe rm i t ted to operate in either market and only the Central Bank, the Banco del Estado, and cer ta in governmen t-owned commercial banks operate in the brokers' ma rke t. There are multi- p le exchange rates in bo th marke ts. Ou tward transfers th rough both ma rke ts are con tro l led. Through the b ank ing ma rket pass gove rnment transac t ions, proceeds f rom exports, receipts f rom a few invisibles, and pay- men ts for impo r ts and for some commercial invisibles. Most invisibles and some capital transactions pass th rough the brokers' ma rke t. In general, capital trans- actions are en t i t led to the same exchange market treat- ment on exit as on en t ry. However, the servicing and w i thd rawal of some cap i tal received through the brokers' m a rk et may be effected th rough the bank ing marke t. T ransac t ions in the b a n k i ng ma rket are for bo th spot and fo rwa rd de l ive ry at the same exchange rate; for impo r ts of most commod i t ies, fo rwa rd exchange purchases are manda tory. For both types of transaction, settlement in escudos is effected at the time the exchange contract is negotiated. Transactions in the brokers' m a r k et are for spot de l ive ry on ly. There is some re s t r ic t ion on the av a i l ab i l i ty of exchange in that the Cen t ral B ank sells exchange to the commerc ial banks on ly for f o rw a rd de l ive ry. On December 31, 1972 the basic buy ing rates in the b a n k i ng m a rk et were as fo l low s: E° 20.00 per US$1 for export proceeds f rom all m inera ls except iron. E° 25.00 per US$1 for exports of iron, agr icu l tural prod- ucts, and most other commod i t ies not sub ject to the o ther expo rt ra tes in the b a n k i ng m a rk e t; exchange accrua ls to the G o v e r nm e n t; and specified receipts f rom inv i s ib le s. E° 30.00 per US$1 for exports of books and magaz ines, m a n u f a c t u r ed goods of copper, iron alloy, and exp los ives. A v a r i a b le exchange rate, de te rm ined on a case-by-case basis, was app l icab le in this market to expo r ts of n o n t r a d i t i o n al i tems. In add i t ion, a buy ing ra te of E° 40.00 per US$1 was app l icab le to cer ta in cap i tal rece ip ts and ce r ta in o ther exchange proceeds. On the same da te the s e l l i ng ra tes in the b a n k i ng m a r k et ( i n c l u d i ng b a n k i ng comm i s s ion s) were as fol- lows: E° 20.08 per US$1 for p a ym e n ts for im p o r ts of f o o d s t u f fs and f u el o i ls and re la ted cu r r ent invisibles. 100 E° 25.00 per US$1 for government transactions. E° 25.10 per US$1 for paymen ts for imports of specified raw materials and in te rmed ia te goods and related invisi- bles, as well as for paymen ts for other specified invisi- bles. E° 40.16 for paymen ts for imports of capital equipment, spare parts, and related invisibles; for profit and dividend rem i t tances; for interest, amortization, and capital repatriation on nono f f ic ial loans and on invest- ments which had entered through the bank ing marke t; and for paymen ts for other specified invisibles. E° 80.32 per US$1 for payments for imports of luxury goods and related inv is ib les and paymen ts for cable, postal, and other in te rna t ional commun ica t ions services. The buying rate in the brokers' market on Decem- ber 31, 1972 was E° 46.00 per US$1 and the basic selling rates in the brokers' ma rket ( inc lud ing bank ing com- missions) were E ° 36.14, E° 46.18, and E° 85.34, per US$1; these selling rates were, however, subject to the payment of several exchange taxes, resu l t ing in a large number of effec t ive selling exchange rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, b e low ). In addition, sales of exchange for rem i t tances to students abroad took place at the rate of E° 36.19 per US$1 under a temporary regime. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Department of In te rna t ional Transactions of the Central Bank of Chile are in charge of the ope ra t ion of the exchange control system. Some func t ions of the Foreign Trade Depa r tment have been delegated to local commissions in impo r t ant cities, and the superv is ion of copper exports, all impor ts of the copper indu s t ry, and some imports of the n i t ra te and iod ine indu s t ry has been delegated to the Copper Corpora t ion (CODELCO), which is superv ised by the Cen t ral Bank and the Super- in tendency of Banks. Impor ts for the pub l ic sector are supervised by the in t e rm in i s t e r i al Import Comm i t tee for the Pub l ic Sector, on wh ich the Cen t ral Bank is also represented. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th A r g e n t i n a, Bolivia, Brazil, Colom- b ia, Mexico, P a r agu ay, Pe ru, U r u g u a y, and Venezuela must be made th rough accoun ts m a in t a in ed w i th each o ther by the C e n t r al Bank of Chile and the central b ank of the c o u n t ry conce rned, w i th in the f ramewo rk of the LAFTA mu l t i l a t e r al c lea r ing system. For imports, p a ym e nt in U . S. do l la rs is pe rm i t ted for goods of any or ig in and is m and a to ry for impo r ts f r om the United States and impor ts f r om Latin Ame r ican countries with which rec iprocal cred it ag reemen ts are in force; pay- m e nt in s t e r l ing is p e rm i t t ed for impo r ts f rom the Un i t ed K i n g d om, Commonw e a l th coun t r ie s, and social- ist coun t r i es ( i n c l u d i ng C u b a ); A u s t r i an schillings, Bel- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs may be used to pay for imports f rom the country issuing the currency con- cerned. Export proceeds may be received in U. S. dol- lars only when stemming f rom sales to the United States or to Latin American countries with which recip- rocal credit agreements are maintained. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, or Swiss francs. Certain payments and transfers to South Afr ica are prohibited. All settlements with Poland and certain settlements with Bulgaria are made through spe- cial accounts established under bilateral payments agree- ments. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports, except those of defense materials, must be registered with the Central Bank. Imports are divided into four categories (Lists A to D) according to which of the four basic se l l ing rates in the banking market applies. There is a List of Permitted Imports; commodi- ties not appear ing on it are prohibited unless imported ( for some of these goods) through a "free port" zone (see be low) or unless they are on Chile's National List negotiated w i th LAFTA, or are impor ted f rom Andean Pact countries. A wide range of commodities may be considered as e f f e c t iv e ly prohibited for private importa- tion since, a l though on the List of Permitted Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent unless they are imported by public sector agencies, o r ig ina te in Andean Pact countries, are imported und er a special regime, or are on the National List and o r ig ina te in a LAFTA coun t ry; the Executive Comm i t tee of the Cen t ral Bank, however, may grant specific exemptions. Goods may no rma l ly be imported in any amoun t. The Cen tral Bank, however, is empow- ered to reject impo rt app l ica t ions ( r eg i s t r a t ion s ), and du r ing 1972 th is au tho r i ty was used in lieu of an import licensing system. Impor ts on deferred credit terms (cobertura diferida) requ i re p r ior au thor iza t ion of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Impo r ts of goods not on the pe rm i t ted list that are impor ted in to "free port" zones, such as Ar ica, Maga l lanes, Aysen, and Chiloe, may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Ce r ta in commod i t ies ( i n c l u d i ng au tomob i les and most t ruck s) may on ly be imported in to a "free port" zone for use in that zone. Most private impor ters are requ ired to deposit w i th commerc ial banks w i th in ten days of the issuance of impo rt registration, an amount in escudos equ iva lent to 130 per cent of the c.i.f value CHILE of the goods ( the deposit is 100 per cent when made in fore ign cu r r en cy ). Upon receipt of documentation showing that the importer has complied with this requ iremen t, the Central Bank provides foreign ex- change to the commercial banks according to the fol- lowing schedule: (a) import letters of credit financed against external lines of credit or against external sup- pliers' credit: on the date payment is due abroad; (b) import letters of credit financed against the banks' own foreign exchange resources: 180 days from the date of shipment; (c) imports on a documentary collection basis and valued at up to US$1,000: upon the process- ing of the relevant documentation, with no fixed wait- ing per iod; (d) impor ts on a documentary collection basis and valued at over US$1,000: 122 days f rom the date of the bill of lading. Imports are subject to a registration tax of 3 per cent on the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control. Payment through the banking market is per- mitted for a few commercial invisibles; all other invisi- bles are settled th rough the brokers' marke t. Payments through the brokers' ma rket may be effected up to established limits for the fo l low ing purposes: for tourist travel (in addition to fares; all l im i ts are per person per jou rn ey, with a 30-day waiting period between trips, and subject to an annual l im it of US$300 for all travel exchange taken up by any one person; the alloca- tions for ch i ldren under seven are half the amounts listed below, and all allocations are subject to a tax at a rate of 53.15 per c e n t) the equ iva lent of US$30 for travel to destinations w i th in 500 k i lome ters of the Chilean border (de f ined to inc lude all of Argentina except the cities of Buenos A ires, Bahia Blanca, and Comodoro R iv ad av i a) sub ject to a m ax imum of US$5 a day; the equ iva lent of US$105 for t ravel to other parts of La t in Amer ica (de f ined as inc lud ing the Baha- mas, Curasao, Jama ica, and Puerto R i c o ), with a max imum of US$15 a day; the equ iva lent of US$200 for t ravel to Canada and the Un i ted States, w i th a maxi- mum of US$20 a day; the equ iva lent of US$300 for travel to countries outside the Western Hemisphere, w i th a m a x im um of US$20 a day; for f am i ly remit- tances US$100 a mon th for each bene f ic ia ry, w i th an annu al m ax imum of US$600 for each benef ic iary; for purchases of books and subscr ip t ions to periodicals US$100 a person a y e a r; and for s tudent registration fees US$50 a person a year. Banks may sell up to US$1 ,200 a person a year for p a ym e nt of insu rance p r em i ums contracted p r ior to Nov emb er 20, 1970 in fo re ign cu r rency w i th na t ional in su rance companies or fo re ign compan ies au tho r ized to opera te in Chile. T ran s fe rs of o th er i n s u r a n ce p r em i ums requ i re the app roval of the C en t r al B ank, which acts on the advice of the Sup e r in t end ent of In su rance. Paymen ts for medi- 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE c ine and p h a rm a c e u t i c al p rodu c ts may on ly be made p rov ided th at the p rodu ct in que s t ion is not available in Ch i l e. T r a n s f e rs in excess of these l im i t s, and those in respect of o t h er t ran sac t ion s, r e q u i re the pr ior au thor- i z a t ion of the C e n t r al B a nk and a re not no rm a l ly app roved. A ll pu rchases of exchange in the brokers' m a rk e t, except those for wh ich the Cen t ral Bank has approved a t r a n s f er app l ica t ion (solicitud de giro), are sub ject to a tax of 53 .15 per cen t; the on ly documen ta- tion requ i red for inv is ib les that are ne i ther covered by the app roval a u t h o r i ty de lega ted to au thor ized banks nor by a solicitud de giro is an app l i c a t ion fo rm (carta peticion) addressed to the C en t r al Bank th rough an au thor ized bank. Res iden ts of Chilean na t iona l i ty and residents of fo r e ign n a t i o n a l i ty who have spent more th an a year in Ch i l e, when t r av e l ing to coun tr ies out- side La t in Ame r ica, are requ i red to pay a t ravel tax of E° 1 , 3 5 0T a trip. Res ident trave lers may take out Ch i lean b ankno t es up to the e q u i v a l e nt of US$200 a person (US$500 for a f am i ly g r o u p ); any add i t ional amoun ts are sub ject to reg is t ra t ion of the ir exportation with the Cen t ral B a n k. The export of Ch i lean bank- notes by non res ident trave lers is prohibited. There are special regu la t ions, however, for the export of Chilean bankno tes by certain travelers to Argen t ina. Exports and Export Proceeds W i th m inor exceptions for human i ta r ian reasons, exports to Rhodesia are p roh ib i ted. Exports of arms and related equ ipm ent to South Afr ica also are pro- hibited. Add i t iona l ly, exports of some items are pro- hibited or are subject to quota irrespective of destina- tion. All exports mu st be registered with the Foreign Trade Depar tment of the Cen tral Bank and the sale proceeds of exports are subject to su r render requirements. Exporters, wh en subm i t t ing an export reg is tra t ion to the Central Bank, are requ ired to f u r n i sh at the same t ime a power of attorney entrusting the Central Bank or any authorized commercial bank with the collection of export proceeds. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require- men ts must be repa t r ia ted w i t h in 90 days f rom the date of shipment, and surrendered within 10 days thereaf ter, but for specified goods this period is extended to between 120 days and 480 days. Export proceeds sold on a spot basis must be transferred to the Central Bank. By v i r tue of Law No. 16528 of 1966, many minor exports receive r e funds of taxes and other charges included in the ir cost of production. Proceeds front Invisibles Receipts of exchange from news and communica- tions agencies' fees, f rom specified transactions by 1 Increased to E° 3,550 with effect from February 1, 1973. 102 n a t ion al i n s u r a n ce companies, f rom commissions, from r e im b u r s em e n ts of i n s u r a n ce c la ims, and f rom credit g r an t ed in fo re ign cu r r en cy by the commerc ial banks mu st be sold in the b a n k i ng m a rk e t. Exchange received in p a ym e nt for personal services rende red by residents mu st be su r r end e r ed at the brokers' ma rket rate; how- ever, fo re ign na t iona ls who have been resident in Chile less th an two years may re ta in 50 per cent of such rem i t tances in fo r e ign cu r r en cy accounts w i th the Banco del Estado. Exchange derived from other invisi- bles, i n c l u d i ng tou r i sm, may be sold in the brokers' m a r k et or r e t a in ed. The d e l iv e ry by banks to residents of fo r e ign exchange t r a n s f e r r ed f rom abroad is subject to p r ior Cen t ral Bank a u t h o r i z a t i o n. Travelers must dec la re a ll fo r e ign cu r rency he ld on en t ry. Tourists m u st change i n to local cu r r en cy a m i n im um of US$10 for each day of stay (US$5 for m ino rs ); tou r is ts f rom n e ighbo r ing coun t r i es mu st change in to local cu r rency at least US$8 a day (US$4 for m ino r s) if the ir stay exceeds seven days. Upon ex it on ly escudos in excess of the m i n im um d a i ly quo tas may be reconver ted in to fo re ign c u r r e n cy. The impo rt of Ch i lean bankno tes is subject to a 10,000 per cent pr ior import deposit requ i remen t. Capital Cap i tal may be b rought in to Ch i le th rough either exchange ma rke t; no cap i tal can f low out f ree ly th rough either ma rke t. No rma l ly, cap i tal is subject to the same exchange m a r k et t r e a tm ent on exit as on en try; th is policy applies also to rem i t tances of d iv idends and profits on the cap i ta l. Ch i le has ra t i f ied the Andean Group's Cartagena Agreement and in p r inc ip le l im i ts t ran s fe rs of profits, d iv idend s, and interest on foreign capital to 14 per cent per a n n um. Foreign cap i tal may en ter Ch i le under one of three d i f fe rent a r rangemen t s, depend ing on the purpose and the type of the inves tmen t. All new fore ign borrowing or ref inanc ing of ex is t ing credits by commercial banks requires p r ior approval by the Cen t ral Bank. ( 1) Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 (September 7, 1962) stipulates that capital brought into the country in the fo rm of fore ign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold free ly in the brokers' market through authorized banks when the investor ( ind iv idual or corporation, national or fo re ign) has registered w i th the Central Bank. Such capital may only be repatriated through the brokers' market with the prior approval of the Central Bank. The same is true for the t rans fer of interest and profits on such capital. All capital repatriation under Article 14 of the above Decree is subject to an exchange tax consisting of a basic tax of 18.15 per cent plus a variable tax equal to the per cent increase in the con- sumer price index since August 1970 to the day before the retransfer is effected. Repatriation is only allowed in accordance with the amortization schedule established upon registration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Principal Effective Exchange Rates (as at December 3 1, 1 9 7 2) (t'scudos per U. S. dollar} Buying Selling ' Banking market CHILE 20.00 Proceeds f r om expo r ts of a ll m i n e r a l s, ex c ept i ron (L i st E ). 25.00 Proceeds f rom expo r ts of iron, a g r i c u l t u r al prod- uc ts, most m a n u f a c t u r ed goods, and a ll o ther products not specified in L is ts E, G, or H (L ist F); all exchange acc rua ls to gove rnment and pub l ic entities, i n c l u d i ng o f f ic ial fo re ign loans; specified i n v i s i b le receipts. 30.00 Proceeds f rom expo r ts of books and magaz ines, m anu f a c tu r ed goods of copper and iron a l l o y, explo- sives, and o th er spec if ied expo r ts (List G ). Variable Proceeds f r om expo r ts of spec i f ied n o n t r a d i t i o n al produc ts (L ist H ). 40.00 Nono f f ic ial c ap i t al rece ip ts und er Decree No. 1272 and Decree-Law No. 258 if b a n k i ng ma rket is se- lec ted; comp en s a t ion for goods in su red abroad. Brokers9 market 46.00 Res idual i n v i s i b le and c a p i t al receipts. i n t e r e st and 20.08 Im p o rt p a ym e n ts f or f o o d s t u f fs a nd f u el o i ls (L i st A) a nd connec ted i n v i s i b l e s. 25.00 Gove rnment t ran sac t ion s, i n c l u d i ng am o r t i z a t i on of o f f i c i al fo r e ign loan s. 25.10 Import paymen ts for all impo r ts not on Lists A, C, or D (L ist B) and connec ted i n v i s i b l e s. 40.16 Impo rt p a ym e n ts for c ap i t al equ ipm ent and spare pa r ts (L ist C) and connected inv i s ib le s; p ro f it and d iv idend rem i t tance s; in te res t, amo r t i z a t ion, and capi- tal repa t r ia t ion on nono f f ic ial loans and inves tmen ts under Decree No. 1272 and Decree-Law No. 258 if en te red th rough the b a n k i ng m a r k e t; and specified inv i s ib le p a ym e n t s. 80.32 Import paymen ts for l u x u ry goods (L ist D) and connected invisibles. Paymen ts for cable, pos ta l, and o ther i n t e r n a t i o n al c omm u n i c a t i o ns serv ices. 28.15 (Temporary Rate):{ Fam i ly rem i t tances for s t u d e n ts ab road u n d er tem- porary reg ime. 36.19 4 S tudent reg i s t ra t ion fees; and rem i t tances for stu- den ts abroad on scho la r sh ip, when t empo r a ry reg ime lapses. 55.35 5 Purchase of medicines without commercial v a lu e; and f am i ly rem i t tances for students abroad not on scholarship, when tempo ra ry reg ime lapses. 36.19 plus indexed 18 per cent tax <! Other repa t r ia t ion of c ap i t al u n d er A r t i c le 14, Decree No. 1272. 70.72 7 Specified inv is ib le paymen t s, i n c l u d i ng insu rance premiums, contracts denominated in fore ign currency, royalties, f i lm ren ta ls, rem i t tances for c u l t u r al and sports events and for medical t rea tment abroad. 46.25 plus indexed 18 per cent tax 8 Repatriation of nono f f ic ial foreign cap i ta l, in terest payments, and prof it rem i t tances under Decree No. 1272 and Decree-Law No. 258 if en te red t h r o u gh the brokers' m a r k e t. 130.70 9 Specified inv i s ib le paymen ts, inc lud ing air and sea fares, tourist exp end i tu r e s, and f a m i ly rem i t tances for nons tuden ts. 2 The basic selling exchange rates of the Cen t ral Bank are E° 20.00, E° 25.00, E° 40.00, and E° 80.00, per US$1, in the banking marke t, and E ° 28.00, E ° 36.00, E ° 46.00, and E° 85.00, per US$1, in the brokers' market. This table shows the selling exchange rates applicable to final payments transactions, which, it is assumed, are subject to the max imum permissible bank ing commission of 0.4 per cent. In the brokers' market no final transac t ions take place at the selling rates of E° 46.00 or E° 85.00, per US$1, because of the app l icab i l i ty of exchange taxes to t ransac t ions in these categories. 3 Spot selling rate of commercial banks of E° 28.11 per US1 plus the basic exchange tax of 0.15 per cent. 4 Spot selling rate of commercial banks of E° 36.14 per US$1 plus the basic exchange tax of 0.15 per cent. *Spot selling rate of commercial banks of E° 36.14 per US$1 plus the basic exchange tax of 0.15 per cent and an add i t ional tax of 53 per cent. <5 Spot selling ra te of commercial banks of E° 36.14 per US$1 plus the basic exchange tax of 0.15 per cent, p lus an add i t ional var iab le exchange tax at a ra te of 18 per cent p lus the per cent increase in the consumer p r ice i n d ex f r om A u g u st 1970 to the day before pay- ment is e f fec ted. 7 Spot selling ra te of commerc ial banks of E° 46.18 per US$1 p lus the basic exchange tax of 0.15 per cent and an add i t ional tax of 53 per cent. 8 Spot selling ra te of commercial banks of E ° 46.18 per US$1 plus the basic exchange tax of 0.15 per cent, plus an add i t ional var iab le exchange tax at a rate of 18 per cent p lus the per cent increase in the consumer price index f rom Augu st 1970 to the day before pay- ment is effec ted. 9 Spot selling rate of commercial banks of E° 85.34 per US$1 plus the basic exchange tax of 0.15 per c ent and an a d d i t i o n al tax of 53 per cent. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (2) According to Article 16 of the above Decree, the investor may enter in to a loan agreement with a Chilean individual or corporation, or into an agreement with a na t ional enterprise with a view to capital par- ticipation. In these cases, the investor has an option between the bank ing market and the brokers' market; the Central Bank guarantees access to the exchange market chosen for the en t ry of the capital, both for the servicing of loans and the re-export of capital, and for the rem i t tance of interest and profits. The guarantee is given subject to certain conditions, one of which is a m in imum investment period of 3 years. As an appli- cation and extension of Article 16, the Executive Committee of the Central Bank on November 3, 1963 took a decision to create an add i t ional regime to fu r ther foreign investment in Chilean export industries. Under this regime, capital brought in for the promotion of exports of agricultural, industrial, and mining products may be sold in the brokers' market, while its repatria- tion may take place in the bank ing marke t, provided that the amount repatriated is financed f rom the increase in the volume of exports resulting from the investment. The regime is implemented through individual invest- ment agreements in accordance with Article 16. Repa- triation of the invested capital may start 2 years after entry and may amount to (cid:2)l/2 per cent annually of the invested capital. In addition, the remittance of inter- est or profits is permitted annua l ly up to 7 per cent of the invested capital. The repayment of capital, and the transfer of interest or prof i ts thereon, may be effected through the bank ing marke t, provided that the amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of exchange resulting from the volume increase in exports. If this criterion prevents the t rans fer of the fu ll amount of amortization, interest, and profits through the bank ing market, the transfers may be completed through the brokers' marke t. The above privileges are granted only to firms that will not purchase foreign exchange in the bank ing ma rket to acquire abroad any mach inery, equip- ment, or capital goods on a cash payment basis. In a fu r ther extension of the regime under Article 16, on June 2, 1966, the Central Bank announced that it would guaran tee the foreign exchange for repatriation of, and earn ings on, imported capital, provided that certain conditions were met. These were (a) the invest- ment must be deemed to be of importance to the Chilean economy; (b) it must amount to at least US$100,000 or the equivalent in other currencies; (c) the capital must rema in in the coun t ry for at least 3 years, and subsequent repa t r ia t ion must not be more than 20 per cent a year, on a noncumu la t ive basis; (d) the exchange must be sold in the bank ing ma rke t; and (e) the in terest rate on credit to Chilean firms must not be higher than that in the domestic market. (3) The most important law governing fore ign investment is Decree-Law No. 258 of 1960, which establishes a regime both for fore ign exchange t rans fe rs and long-term capital inves tmen t. A Foreign Investment 104 Committee studies the proposal and the Ministry of Economy approves by decree the particular investment; the Committee establishes both guarantees regarding w i thdrawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits and may also give special guaran tees regarding exemption from payment of certain import surcharges, customs duties, and taxes. Such privileges may be granted for a period of 10 years, w i th extension to 20 years in special cases. Remittances are effected in the same market (normally the bank ing ma rke t) through which the capital was brought in, and the investor has the right to use the exchange resulting from the export proceeds of his investment. Decision No. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement is con- sidered to override any contrary provisions of Decree- Law No. 258 and of Articles 14 and 16 of Decree No. 1272. Gold Chile has issued four gold coins, which are legal tender. Newly mined gold is purchased from the pro- ducers by Empresa Nacional de Mineria (ENAM I ), which, after refining, sells it to the Central Bank. The latter has this gold coined at the Mint. The Central Bank makes gold available to industrial users in the f o rm of Chilean gold coins at E° 786.64 a gram.10 The Central Bank has exclusive power to purchase, sell, negotiate, or t rans fer gold in any fo rm for any purpose, except in the fo rm of jewe lry. All import and export of gold contained in m inera ls is subject to special authori- zation by the Central Bank. Gold bars are imported and exported only by the Central Bank. The import of gold coins and of gold dust, gold leaf, and gold wire for industrial use is subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement; the import of gold coins is not normally permitted. Changes during 1972 January 3. Central Bank Circular No. 1632 estab- lished new regulations governing sales of passenger tickets and provision of a irfre ight services by airlines, effec t ive Janua ry 17. Henceforth, such sales could be made only in fore ign currency and not against payment orders or charge accounts, and the foreign currency could be used only for tourist class or charter flight tickets or for fre igh t. Chilean and foreign nationals resident in Chile could purchase the foreign exchange f rom authorized banks at the prevailing rate of exchange in the brokers' market, plus the applicable tax, no more than 15 days in advance of the date of travel. January 5. C ircu lar No. 1634 added Swedish kroner, Danish k rone r, Norwegian kroner, French francs, and Italian lire to the list of currencies in which import transactions must be agreed. These currencies could hence fo r th also be made available for paymen ts in respect of imports. 10 Changed to E° 2,015.73 with e f fect f rom May 3, 1973. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 6. Circular No. 1635 permitted authorized banks to sell foreign exchange forward, at the rate of E° 12.21 per US$1, for imports under Law No. 12008 into the "free port" zones of Chiloe, Aysen, and Magal- lanes, provided the goods either had entered customs or had been shipped prior to December 13, 1971. January 11. Circular No. 1637 gave implementing instructions for banks' exchange transactions in accord- ance with Circular No. 1616 of December 10, 1971. January 20. C ircu lar No. 1643 shifted payments in respect of in te rna t ional communications services to the basic b ank ing ma rket rate of E° 25.00 per US$1. January 24. Circular No. 1645 modified the exchange rates for the impor ta t ion of goods into the "free port" zones of Chiloe, Aysen, and Magallanes established by Circulars Nos. 1616 and 1635. Banks were permitted to sell exchange forward at E ° 12.21 per US$1 for imports whose registration had been approved under the 1971 impo rt budge t; however, for such imports regis- tered under the 1972 impo rt budget, goods were classi- fied into several categories to which exchange rates of E° 12.21, E° 15.80, and E° 19.00 per US$1 were applicable independen t ly of the categories established by Circular No. 1616. January 24. C ircu lar No. 1646 announced that tem- porarily all imports of the large copper m in ing compa- nies that had been approved by the Copper Corporation could be effected at E ° 19.00 per US$1, irrespective of the commodity classification in Circular No. 1616. January 29. Jeep-type vehicles were added to the List of Permitted Impor ts; they became subject to the 10,000 per cent advance deposit requ iremen t. February 17. C i rcu lar No. 1656 provided that settle- ments with Poland must be effected through clearing accounts established under the paymen ts agreement with that coun t ry. March 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Brazil came into operation. March 10. C i rcu lar No. 1661 modified the regula- tions established by C i rcu lar No. 1632. A i r l ines were perm i t ted to collect in domestic currency tour ist class or char ter flight fa res and a i r f r e ight charges, provided that travel or sh ipment took place w i th in 30 days. March 13. Circular No. 1664 added reinsurance pre- m iums to the i tems e l ig ib le for the basic se l l ing rate in the b a n k i ng m a rk et of E° 19.00 per US$1. March 13. C i rcu lar No. 1662 revoked Circular No. 1615 and prov ided that fo re ign sh ipp ing companies must settle a ll expend i tu res in Ch i le in fore ign currency. (This mea su re was amended on Ap r il 7 by C ircu lar No. 1670 and on May 8 by C i rcu lar No. 1679.) March 22. C i r cu l ar No. 1666 ins truc ted banks to charge 18 per cent in te rest for the ex tens ion by up to 60 days of fo rw a rd purchases of fo r e ign exchange f r om expor ters, as au thor ized by C i r cu l ar No. 1626 of December 23, 1971. (Th is mea su re was amended on Apr il 14 by C i rcu lar No. 1674.) CHILE March 29. Circular No. 1667 permitted the export by Chilean or foreign nationals resident in Chile, when traveling abroad, of domestic banknotes up to the equivalent calculated at the brokers' market rate of US$200 a person, subject to a limit of US$500 for a family group. (On May 24, Circular No. 1694 exempted cases covered by the Labor Agreement or the Social Security Agreement with Argen t ina .) April 7. Circular No. 1669 shifted freight earned by Chilean shipping companies to the buying rate of E° 19.00 per US$1 in the banking market. April 7. Circular No. 1671 shifted imports of vehi- cles equipped for the exclusive use of crippled persons to the basic selling rate in the bank ing market. April 13. Circular No. 1672 established a buying rate of E° 42.00 per US$1 for purchases of foreign cur- rency f rom delegates to the UNCTAD III Conference. (The application of this measure was widened on April 20 by Circular No. 1677.) April 14. Circular No. 1675 revoked the Central Bank Resolution of August 12, 1963 concerning imports under Law No. 12858 by the large copper mining com- panies. These imports hencefor th had to be authorized and registered by the Central Bank. April 20. Circular No. 1676 required the prior visa of the Directorate-General of Sports and Recreation for the registration of imports of sports equipment. April 28. Circular No. 1678 added Spanish pesetas and Aus tr ian schillings to the list of currencies in which export and import transactions could be agreed. May 8. C ircu lar No. 1680 added the Japanese yen to the list of currencies in which import and export transactions could be agreed. May 11. Circular No. 1683 amended the rules of Circular No. 1616 govern ing the exchange operations of authorized banks. The ma jor changes were ( 1) with effect f rom May 17 banks were pe rm i t ted to maintain for the ir own account overbought and oversold posi- tions in the b ank ing marke t, and overbought positions in the brokers' marke t, up to l im i ts established by the c i rcu lar for each bank (no position in gold was per- m i t t e d ); (2) banks were pe rm i t ted to charge commis- sions on sales of exchange up to 2 per m i l l; and ( 3) the m i n im um period for fo rwa rd purchases of exchange f r om exporters was set at 10 days, and the max imum at 90 days. The exchange rates established by Circular No. 1616 of December 10, 1971, and subsequent amendmen t s, we re ma in ta ined unchanged. May 17. C ircu lars Nos. 1687 and 1688 of May 16 changed f r om E ° 28.00 to E° 42.00 per US$1 the buy- ing and s e l l ing rates in the brokers' ma rket applicable to travel fa res, exchange a l lo c a t ions to residents for t ravel abroad, convers ions of fo re ign cu r rency by fo r- eign t rave le r s, and v a r ious other p aym en ts and receipts in respect of i n v i s i b l es ( i n c l u d i ng ou twa rd t r an s f e rs of pens ions, a l im o n y, and f am i ly rem i t tance s, and inward t rans fe rs of roya l t ies and copyr ight ea rn ing s ). 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE May 22. C i r c u l ar No. 1693 codified the classification and a dm i n i s t r a t i ve p rocedu res app l icab le to invisible fo re ign exchange ope ra t ions. It also specified the out- wa rd p aym en ts that requ i red a solicitud de giro and in t roduced a new f o rm for the solicitud. May 25. C i r cu l ar No. 1695 p roh ib i ted the large cop- per m i n i ng compan ies and the mixed m in ing companies f r om m a k i ng p a ym e n ts in fore ign cu r rency in f u l f i l l- ment of con t rac ts conc luded w i th Ch i lean residents or fo re ign j u r i d i c al persons au tho r ized to operate in Chile. Labor con t r a c ts d enom in a t ed in fore ign currency were exempt. May 26. C i rcu lar No. 1698 made imports of scien- t i f ic and techn ical books and textbooks, and subscrip- tions to sc ien t i f ic and techn ical j o u r n a ls eligible for the basic se l l ing ra te of E ° 19.00 per US$1, up to US$100 a person a year. June 7. C i rcu lar No. 1702 gave opera t ing instructions for se t t lemen ts under the new paymen ts agreement w i th Bu lgar ia. June 12. C i rcu lar No. 1 704 pe rm i t ted the use of sup- pliers' credit of up to two years for impo r ts of books. June 13. C i rcu lar No. 1705 added remittances in respect of au tho rs' copyr igh ts to the items eligible for the basic s e l l ing rate of E° 25.00 per US$1 in the bank- ing ma rke t. June 21. C i rcu la rs Nos. 1706 and 1707 modified the regu la t ions govern ing sales of fo re ign exchange estab- lished by C ircu lars Nos. 1546 and 1683, as follows: ( 1) the m a x im um period an impor ter was perm i t ted to wait before en ter ing in to a fo rwa rd exchange contract for impo rt paymen ts was for most imports extended f rom 60 days to 70 days f rom the date of shipping documents ( f r om 120, 210, 240, or 360 days to 120, 240, 360, or 720 days for specified impo r t s ); (2) imports financed with ex te rnal suppliers' credits, imports without fo re ign exchange cover, impor ts financed with importers' own fo re ign exchange resources, imports paid for w i th treasury fund s, and imports of spare parts up to US$1,500 were exempt f rom these maximum waiting periods; ( 3) wh i le the m i n im um waiting period between the date of sh ipp ing documents and the date an impor ter could enter in to a fo rwa rd exchange con- tract rema ined unchanged at 50 days for most imports, specified food s tu f fs were exempted f rom the m in imum waiting period requirement; (4) the Central Bank's delivery period for forward exchange was extended f rom 72 days to 105 days for most imports; (5) com- mercial banks were permitted to sell foreign exchange spot to pr iva te impor ters for imports on a documentary collection basis when valued at up to US$1,000; (6) for other imports on a documentary collection basis or against letters of credit with maturities of over 180 days, the Central Bank undertook to provide foreign exchange to the commercial banks 5 days before the due date of the payment abroad; and (7) banks were authorized to charge commissions of up to 4 per mill on sales of foreign exchange. 106 June 22. C i r cu l ar No. 1709 amended C ircu lar No. 1568 conce rn ing the sale of fo re ign exchange in the brokers' ma rket for t ravel expenses. Henceforth, the Cen t ral Bank could upon app l ica t ion, on a case-by-case basis, au tho r ize the sale of fore ign exchange in excess of quo tas for business t rave l, service commissions, medi- cal expenses, etc. July 4. C ircu lar No. 1712 extended the application of the rate of E° 42.00 per US$1 to additional trans- actions in the brokers' ma rke t. On the selling side were added rem i t tances of consu lar fees (except those in respect of expo r t s ), wh i le on the buy ing side the fol- low ing exchange receipts became e l ig ib le for th is rate: d ip loma t ic and consu lar represen ta t ion fees; office m a i n t e n a n ce expenses of d ip loma t ic missions in Chile; expenses of i n s t a l l a t i o n, m a in t en an c e, and operation of offices of i n t e r n a t i o n al organ iza t ions in Chile; purchases of e q u i pm e n t, bu i ld ings, and f u r n i t u re by diplomatic m iss ions and i n t e r n a t i o n al o rgan iza t ions; and salaries and other remune ra t ion of personnel of in te rna t ional organ iza t ions in Chile. August 1. C i rcu lar No. 1724 established new basic exchange rates in the brokers' ma rke t, with effect f rom Augu st 2, as fo l lows: E° 36.00 per US$1 for sales of exchange in connection w i th rem i t tances to students abroad, purchases of medicines, and certain specified capital and interest p aym en ts (A rea I); E° 85.00 per US$1 for sales of exchange in connection w i th travel expend i tures, fam i ly rem i t tances, and other specified inv is ib le paymen ts (A rea I I I ); and E° 46.00 per US$1 for all other sales of exchange in the brokers' market (Area II) and for all purchases of exchange in that ma rke t. However, the rate of E° 28.00 per US$1 was retained for sales of exchange in connection with speci- fied capital and interest paymen ts un t il September 15, 1972, and for exchange sales in connection with student rem i t tances un t il a f u r t h er decision by the Central Bank. (Prev ious ly, there had been two basic exchange rates in the brokers' ma rke t: E° 42.00 per US$1 for purchases and sales of exchange in connection with travel and the items covered by C ircu lar No. 1712, and E° 28.00 per US$1 for all other brokers' ma rket trans- actions .) D i f fe ren t ial exchange taxes con t inued to apply to sales of exchange for specified purposes, resulting in a large number of effec t ive exchange rates. August 4. C ircu lar No. 1727 introduced new basic exchange rates in the bank ing market, with effect from August 7. On the selling side, four basic exchange rates were established: E ° 20.00 per US$1 for import pay- ments for foodstuffs and fuel oils (List A) and con- nected invisibles; E° 40.00 for import payments for capital equipment and spare parts (List C) and con- nected invisibles, profit and dividend remittances, speci- fied capital and interest payments, and specified invisi- bles; E° 80.00 per US$1 for import payments for lux- ury goods (List D) and connected invisibles; and E° 25.00 per US$1 for import payments for all imports not listed on Lists A, C, or D (List B ), connected ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution invisibles, and p aym en ts made by the Gove rnmen t, inc lud ing in te rest and amo r t iza t ion of o f f ic ial fore ign loans. (P r e v i o u s l y, the exchange rates applicable to sales of exchange for impo r ts on Lists A, B, C, and D were E° 1 2 . 2 1, E ° 15.80, E ° 19.00, and E° 25.00 per US$1, re spec t ive ly, and gove rnment transac t ions were effected at E° 15.80 per US$1.) On the buy ing side, four basic exchange rates we re established in the bank- ing m a rk e t: E° 20.00 per US$1 for the purchase of export rece ip ts f r om a ll m ine ra ls except iron (List E ); E° 30.00 per US$1 for exports of books and maga- zines, m anu f a c tu r ed goods of copper and iron alloy, and explosives (L ist G ); a va r iab le exchange rate, to be de te rm ined on a case-by-case basis, for exports of certain non t r ad i t ion al items to be specified in List H; and E ° 25.00 per US$1 for exports of i ron, agricultural products, and all o ther produc ts not specified in Lists E, G, or H (List F ), all exchange accruals to govern- ment and pub l ic entities, and specified invisible receipts. (P rev ious ly, the two basic buy ing exchange rates in the bank ing ma rket were E° 15.80 and E° 19.00 per US$1.) In addition to the new basic exchange rates, a selling rate of E° 56.00 per US$1 resulted f rom the sale of 60 per cent of the exchange for the payment of cable, postal, and other in te rna t ional communications services at the ra te applicable to List C import payments and of the rema in ing 40 per cent at the rate applicable to List D import payments. Fur thermore, an additional buying exchange rate of E° 40.00 per US$1 resulted f rom the application of the List C rate for import pay- ments to the proceeds f rom specified capital transac- tions en ter ing through the bank ing market. August 7. The Cen tral Bank's selling price for gold coins was increased f rom E° 50 to E° 292.91 a gram. August 11. Circular No. 1731 canceled Circular No. 1646 and, w i th effect f rom August 7, 1972, shifted the imports of the large copper m in ing companies to the new selling rate of E° 25.00 per US$1. August 16. Circular No. 1733 modified the regula- tions established by Circular No. 1645 governing the exchange rates applicable to the importation of goods under Law No. 12008 into the "free port" zones of Chiloe, Aysen, and Magallanes. Goods imported prior to August 7, 1972 and whose processing had been com- pleted could, under certain conditions, be imported at rates of exchange preva i l ing pr ior to that date. Specified goods impor ted prior to August 7, 1972, but whose processing could not be completed prior to October 15, 1972, were subject to the exchange rate of E° 17.00 per US$1. Payments for all other goods could be effected at rates of E° 20.00, E° 25.00, E° 40.00, or E° 80.00 per US$1, depending on the categories to which they were assigned and independently of the classification established by Circular No. 1727. The new C ircu lar also established that sales of exchange for the importation of goods falling within List D of Cir- CHILE cu lar No. 1727 wou ld be effec ted at E ° 40.00 per US$1. (For pub l ic sector impo r ts, th is C i rcu lar was amended on December 15 by C i r cu l ar No. 1797.) August 22. C i rcu lar No. 1734 requ i red the p r ior visa of the C en t r al Bank for a ll contracts w i th fore ign sup- p l iers und er cred it ag reemen ts w i th a m a tu r i ty of over three years signed by the C en t r al Bank of the Corpora- cion de Fomento (CORFO) with fore ign banks or orga- n i z a t ion s. The requ i rement was applicable to both the pub l ic and the p r iv a te sectors. August 31. C i r cu l ar No. 1738 modified Circular No. 1727 by es tab l ish ing a requ i rement that the va lue of the raw copper component in exports of manu fac tu red goods and chemical products subject to the List G exchange rate of E° 30.00 per US$1 would hencefor th be subject to the ra te app l icab le to List E, i.e., E° 20.00 per US$ 1; this was not applicable to copper hand icraft articles. The exchange earn ings of Chilean shipping companies were removed f rom List E, and became subject to the buy ing rate applicable to List F, i.e., E° 25.00 per US$1. September 6. C ircu lar No. 1742 modified the import regulations established by C ircu lar No. 1706. Banks could no longer open documen ta ry credits for imports unless the impo r ter had deposited no later than seven days a f ter the issuance of an import registration an amount in escudos equ iva lent to 130 per cent of the c.i.f. value. If made in foreign currency, the required prior import deposit was 100 per cent. The deposits were applied against the import payment and were calculated at the exchange rate preva i l ing on the day of deposit. C ircu lar No. 1706 was canceled with effect f rom October 1. Banks could release shipping docu- ments to an importer only if the latter had paid in fu ll the escudo va lue of the import transaction. If the escudo were depreciated and the additional 30 per cent deposit were insuff ic ient to cover the escudo equivalent of the transaction on the date of payment, the importer would be required to deposit the additional escudos needed no later than 15 days af ter the receipt of ship- ping documents by the bank concerned. If there were no depreciation, or if the 30 per cent deposit were more than suff ic ient to cover the additional amount required in escudos, the d ifference would be refunded to the importer. Upon receipt of the escudo equivalent of the trans- actions, the Central Bank undertook to deliver exchange to the commercial banks according to the following schedule: ( 1) import letters of credit financed against external lines of cred i t: on the due date of payment abroad; ( 2) import letters of credit financed with the banks' own resources: 180 days f rom the date of ship- men t; ( 3) import letters of credit financed against sup- pliers' credits: on the due date of payment abroad; (4) imports on a documen tary collection basis of up to US$1,000: upon the processing of the relevant docu- mentation by the Central Bank; ( 5) imports on a docu- 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE men ta ry collection basis valued at over US$1,000: 180 days f rom the date of shipping documents (unless the supplier had provided longer terms, in which case the exchange would be delivered on the due date of pay- ment a b r o a d ). September 6. Circular No. 1741 provided revised export regulations. Inc luded were rules about exports of Chilean bankno tes, gold, and personal effects (and reduced travel a l loca t ions for persons exporting per- sonal effects in excess of US$500 or US$1,000). September 11. C i rcu lar No. 1745 modified Circular No. 1698. Impo r ts of sc ien t if ic and techn ical books and textbooks, and subscr ip t ions to scientific and technical jou rna l s, up to US$100 a person a year, could be made at the basic selling rate of E° 40.00 per US$1, subject to the pr ior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank could authorize h igher amoun ts for educational or nonprof it ins t i tu t ions. September 14. C i rcu lar No. 1748 made any change in the fo rm of payment for an import transaction, a f ter its registration, sub ject to Cen tral Bank approval. September 14. C i rcu lar No. 1749 revoked the provi- sions of C ircu lars Nos. 1683 and 1707 relating to for- ward purchases of exchange f rom exporters. Hence- fo r th, authorized banks were permitted to purchase export proceeds on a spot basis only. September 14. C i rcu lar No. 1750 modified Circular No. 1742. The period w i th in which importers were requ ired to make the 130 per cent pr ior import deposit was extended to 10 days f rom the date of issue of the import registration. The period for the delivery of exchange by the Cen tral Bank for imports on a docu- men ta ry collection basis va lued at more than US$1,000 was reduced f rom 180 days to 122 days, counting f rom the date of sh ipp ing documents. September 15. C i rcu lar No. 1752 in troduced m inor modifications in Lists C and D of C ircu lar No. 1727. September 29. C ircu lar No. 1758 changed the opera- t ive date of C i rcu lar No. 1742 (except in respect of the 130 per cent p r ior impo rt depos i t) to October 16. October 2. C ircu lar No. 1759 added ce r ta in p ickup t rucks to the List of Pe rm i t ted Impo r ts, subject to an advance deposit of 10,000 per cen t. October 2. C i rcu lar No. 1761 increased the Central Bank's de l ive ry period for fo rwa rd exchange f rom 105 days to 120 days f r om the date an impo r ter entered in to a fo rw a rd exchange con trac t. October 9. C ircu lar No. 1762 sh i f ted cer ta in insur- ance ind emn i t i es f r om the b a n k i ng m a rk et buy ing rate of E° 25.00 per US$1 (L i st F) to the buy ing rate of E° 40.00 per US$1 (L i st C). Ou twa rd paymen ts of certain in su rance p rem iums were added to List C of the bank ing marke t. October 11. C i rcu lar No. 1765 made exchange earn- ings of na t ional sh ipp ing compan ies e l ig ib le for List F of the b a n k i ng m a r k e t. October 13. C i rcu lar No. 1766 p rov ided that advance 108 deposit requ i remen ts were applicable also to goods f rom LAFTA countries and Andean Group countries. Imports f rom those countries of proh ib i ted imports would be permitted, subject to an advance deposit. October 16. C i rcu lar No. 1768 postponed the effec- tive date of app l ica t ion of Circular No. 1742 (except in respect of the 130 per cent impo rt depos i t) to Octo- ber 30. October 16. C ircu lar No. 1769 exempted f rom the 130 per cent import deposit all imports paid for with foreign exchange provided by the Treasury and all imports made by specified agencies and enterprises ( inc lud ing CODELCO, the large copper m in ing com- panies, CORFO, and the M i n t ). October 17. C ircu lar No. 1770 modified the travel allowances established by Circular No. 1568 of Sep- tember 1, 1971. A global allocation of US$300 a per- son a ca lendar year was established. For travel to all countries not specified below, the da i ly allocation was US$20 a person. For travel to des t ina t ions w i th in 500 k i lome ters of the Chilean border or anywhe re in Argen- t ina except the cities of Buenos Aires, Bahia Blanca, and Comodoro R ivadav ia, the a l lowance was US$5 a person a day, subject to a m ax imum of US$30 a trip. For travel to other parts of Latin America (defined so as to include the Bahamas, Curasao, Jamaica, and Puer to R i co ), US$15 a day up to US$105 a trip. For Canada and the Un i ted States, the m ax imum for a trip was US$200, and for t ravel to Europe and other coun- tries, US$300. However, persons receiving invitations to travel to Cuba were subject to a m ax imum per trip of US$30, and those rece iv ing inv i ta t ions f rom Bul- garia, ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- m a n y, H u n g a r y, Roman ia, and the U. S. S. R. were subject to a max imum of US$80. October 20. C ircu lar No. 1773 amended Circulars Nos. 1727 and 1742 and revoked C i rcu lar No. 1707. The sale of exchange in connection w i th all payments for invisibles in the b ank ing ma rket became subject to t he fo l low ing ru le s: ( 1) t he commerc ial banks were hence fo r th requ i red to rem it to the Central Bank the escudo equ iva lent of the t ransac t ion on the day of receipt of the f u n ds f rom an app l ican t; and (2) the Cen t ral Bank unde r took to p rov ide the equivalent in fo re ign exchange 122 days f rom the date of deposit of local currency by an app l icant w i th the commercial b a n k. As regards procedures gove rn ing payment for impo r ts of goods, the commercial banks were author- ized to f u r n i sh an impo r ter w i th a copy of the import registration enab l ing him to clear the goods through customs, provided the impo r ter had met the 130 per cent deposit requ i remen t. Commerc ial banks were au thor ized to sell exchange on a spot basis for their own account for the f o l l ow i n g: (1) consu lar fees pay- ab le in fo re ign exchange and related to exports, up to US$2,000; (2) f r e ight charges on exports, up to US$2,000; (3) f re ight payab le to national shipping ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution companies; (4) expenses in connection with letters of credit opened but subsequently canceled; and (5) pay- ments for imports or invisibles expressly authorized by the Central Bank. October 25. Circular No. 1774 added certain items, including f resh f ru i t s, to the exports eligible for the buying rate of E° 30.00 per US$1 (List G ). November 3. Circular No. 1778 added certain items, including newsprint and cellulose, to the list of exports eligible for the buy ing rate of E° 30.00 per US$1 (List G ). November 17. Circular No. 1782 revoked the provi- sions of Circular No. 1738 relating to the raw copper component in exports of manu fac tu red goods and chemical products. Two items were added to the list of exports eligible for the buy ing rate of E° 30.00 per US$1 ( L i s t G ). November 20. Circular No. 1783 shifted certain sports goods to the exchange rate of List C in Circular No. 1727 and made them subject to an advance deposit of 10,000 per cent. November 22. C ircu lar No. 1784 established that persons t rave l ing abroad for whose fa re no charge was made would be entitled to only 40 per cent of the nor- CHILE mal travel allocations. November 23. Circular No. 1785 added eight minor items to the list of exports eligible for the buying rate of E° 30.00 per US$1 (List G ). December 1. Circular No. 1788 made some minor shifts of commodities between the lists of Circular No. 1727. December 4. The Central Bank's selling price for gold coins was increased f rom E° 292.91 to E° 786.64 a gram. December 13. Circular No. 1793 shifted payments for postal and other communications services from the mixing rate provided for in Circular No. 1727 (60 per cent List C and 40 per cent List D) to the List D rate. December 13. Circular No. 1794 amended Circulars Nos. 1670 and 1679 concerning payments made in Chile by fo re ign shipping companies. December 15. Circular No. 1795 added various types of sawn lumber to the list of exports eligible for the buy ing rate of E° 30.00 per US$1 (List G ). December 22. Circular No. 1799 with effect from Janua ry 1, 1973 sh if ted certain remittances to students to the Area I brokers' market rate. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.0204628 gram of fine gold per New Taiwan Dollar, corresponding to NT$43.4286 = SDR 1 or NT$40.00 = US$1, and China avails itself of w ider ma rg ins. The official b u y i ng and selling rates for the U. S. dollar are NT$40.00 and NT$40.10, respectively. Buy ing and selling rates for ce r ta in other currencies are also o f f ic ia l ly posted, with daily quo ta- tions based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar in m a rk e ts abroad.1 Currencies for which rates are not o f f ic ia l ly posted may be accepted by appointed bank s, and the rates are calculated in accord- ance w i th the foreign ma rket quotations.2 With cer- ta in exceptions, earners of fore ign exchange must sell it to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. There is no exchange market. The appointed banks clear their exchange transac t ions at the end of each day with the Central Bank. Forward cover fac i l i t ies are limited to import and export transactions. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies con- cerning foreign exchange and trade controls. Foreign exchange and trade ma t ters are entrusted to the Minis- tries of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs and the Central Bank of Ch ina. The M in is t ry of Finance has general jurisdiction over foreign exchange laws and regulations, and is in charge of government remittances. The For- eign Exchange Department of the Central Bank of China is responsible for the overall management of for- eign exchange, for the determination of the official buy- ing and selling rates of exchange, and for the supervi- sion of the authorized banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most impor tan t. The Central Bank also licenses private remittances and capital movements. The Board of Foreign Trade of the M in is try of Economic A f fa i rs coordinates indus t r ial and trade policies, includ- ing those relating to the import regime and export pro- motion, and is in charge of the issuance of import licenses. By delegation, the Application Receipt and Dis- patch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade screens applications for import licenses and issues the licenses; for some goods, however, import applications and licenses are screened and issued by 15 appointed banks and their branches. Export applications are screened, and export permits issued, by 24 appointed banks. Most * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, China on February 16 (local t ime) established a cen t ral rate of SDR 0.0218144 = NT$1, corresponding to NT$1 = 0.0193858 gram of fine gold, or NT$45.8413 = SDR 1, or NT$38 = US$1. China con t inued to avail itself of wider margins. New buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were set at NT$37.90 and NT$38.10 per US$1. respectively. 1 Australian dollars, deutsche ma rk, Hong Kong dollars, Malaysian dollars, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 A conversion rate Y 8.5 = NT$1 exists for Japanese banknotes. no foreign exchange transactions are conducted appointed banks, i.e., authorized banks. through Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Australian dol- lars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Malaysian dol- lars, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U. S. dollars.3 Currencies not off ic ia l ly posted may be accepted by au thor ized banks but must be converted into posted currencies in exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank supplies fo re ign exchange in the form of any of the posted currencies for mak ing paymen ts to residents of foreign countries. Nonresident Accounts China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresi- dents. As a consequence, persons who would be con- sidered non res ident under many other exchange control systems are not granted trea tment essentially different from that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of for- eign countries. Residents may ma in ta in accounts in U. S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Hong Kong dollars, as follows: Holders of foreign banknotes or travelers checks may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of remittances f rom abroad or of money orders or other negotiable ins trumen ts d rawn on for- eign banks may have the proceeds credited to Foreign Exchange Accounts. Balances in Foreign Currency Accounts may be w i thd rawn in the original currency or in new Taiwan dollars, af ter conversion at the official buying rate. Balances in Foreign Exchange Accounts may be withdrawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad freely, w i th the exception that for- eign exchange that originated in the United States may not be remitted to Hong Kong. Foreign Exchange Accounts and Foreign Currency Accounts are subdi- vided into interest-bearing time deposits and passbook accounts (which do not bear interest). Imports and Import Payments4 Most imports require individual licenses. For virtually 3 However, cer ta in exports to Viet-Nam are settled under tied letters of credit in U. S. dollars which may be used only to finance imports f rom the Un i ted States other than ag r icu l tu ral surplus commodities. 4 Special regulations apply to imports into the Kaohsiung export processing zone. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution all commodities subject to license, license applications are screened, and import licenses are issued, by the Application Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade. Designated appointed banks have a u t h o r i ty to screen impo rt app l ica t ions for certain da i ly necessities, to issue impo rt licenses on beha lf of the Cen tral B ank, and to make the necessary foreign exchange ava i lab le; these goods are au toma t ica l ly approved for an impo rt license. Impor ters of goods on the permissible list (see be low) may con t ract on docu- ments against p aym ent ( D / P ), documents against acceptance ( D / A ), or usance letter of credit terms. The holder of an impo rt license is en t i t led to obtain the necessary fore ign exchange f rom an au thor ized bank. Exchange se t t lement correspond ing to 20 per cent of the f.o.b., c. & f., or c.i.f. va lue of imports ( raw cot- ton f inanced under the U.S. P.L. 480 program is exemp t) must be made w i th in 28 days of approval of the license for all impo r ts not tak ing place on a deferred payment, consignment, D /P, or D/A basis, i.e., for all imports und er sight letter of credit; the requirement is 10 per cent for usance imports, and 15 per cent for imports of m a ch in e ry and equ ipment payab le in install- ments that do not requ ire a bank guarantee.5 This advance settlement requirement, the so-called per- formance deposit, is a condition for the issuance of a letter of credit. Imports f rom communist countries are prohibited in principle, although certain imports from Eastern European countries are now being licensed. The Chinese au thor i t ies license and check imports f rom Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain certain imports direct f rom the coun try of production and to control effectively imports from mainland China; for similar reasons, certain commodi- ties are not permitted to be imported f rom Hong Kong and Macao. Certain commodities financed with U. S. aid funds ( inc lud ing P.L. 480 fund s) can be imported only f rom the United States. Imports are divided into three groups: ( 1) pro- hibited, (2) controlled, and ( 3) permissible. The pro- hibited imports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods excluded by most countries f rom importa- tion but also a wide range of Pharmaceuticals and 6 a number of luxu ry goods and less essential items, such as certain Chinese luxu ry foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquor, jewelry, certain medicines, tea, sugar (and its sub- stitutes), and molasses. The controlled list contains three types of goods: some consumer luxury items,7 REPUBLIC OF CHINA cer ta in goods that are also produced loca l ly of good qu a l i ty and in su f f ic ient qu an t i ty to meet domestic demand and whose ex-factory prices are not more than 5 per cent h igher than the landed, du ty -pa id prices of comparab le impo r ted goods; and goods sub ject to regu la t ion and a l loca t ion. The first two types are licensed r e s t r i c t i v e l y ;s goods of the th i rd type are o f ten impor ted by gove rnment agencies, wh ich o f fer them for sale either by allocation or by auc t ion. Liquor and cigarettes are impor ted by a government monopo ly organization, wh ich is also responsible for domestic d is t r ibu t ion of these commodities. Impo r ts on the per- missible list are licenced l ibera l ly and can be made by bo th end-users and traders. The impo r ta t ion of items on the con tro l led list is pe rm i t ted on ly to factories and end-users. On December 31, 1971, of 11,584 classified import items, 14 were proh ib i ted, 2 ,122 were controlled, and 9,448 were perm iss ib le. On December 31, 1972, the corresponding figures were 14 p roh ib i ted, 2,013 controlled, and 9,557 permissible.9 A general (cove r ing) l icens ing procedure has been introduced in respect of a few items on the controlled list. Under this procedure, m a n u f a c t u r e rs and other direct end-users are granted au thor iza t ion sem iannua l ly for the impor ta t ion of listed items specified by value and by quan t i ty. Exchange for such impor ts is obtain- able au toma t ica l ly each time the importer presents the general approved license at an authorized bank. An automatic approval system is applied to certain items on the permissible list. Under this system, importers may obtain foreign exchange at any authorized bank by subm i t t ing import licenses which are automatically approved. Application of the au toma t ic approval sys- tem was limited to a few items in i t ia l ly but was later expanded. On December 31, 1971, the system applied to 2,444 items, and on December 31, 1972 to 3,955 items. Special regu la t ions apply to 4 commodities normally imported in bu lk shipments.10 They are subject to annual quotas and priority must be given to Chinese flag vessels for their importation. According to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of the three main groups of importers: government trading agencies, qualified private traders, and end-users and manufac turers. The import of crude oil is confined to the Chinese Petroleum Corporation. The Central Trust of China is the main government trading agency. It handles imports for government and military organizations, public enterprises, and other 5 On Apr il 1, 1973 the advance settlement requirements became the following: 25 per cent of the le t ter of credit amount for sight letters of credit; 15 per cent for usance letters of credit; 15 per cent for letters of cred it financed by self-provided exchange; 20 per cent for letters of c red it on an ins ta l lment payment basis; and 10 per cent for letters of credit covering bulk imports specially approved by the Ministry of Eccnomic A f f a i r s. 6 Until Janua ry 1, 1973, when they were shifted to the controlled list. 7 These include such durables. items as made-up clothing and consumer 8 Licenses for goods on the controlled list are l ibera l ly g ran ted when the goods concerned are for equipping new facilities, e.g., hotels for the tour ist t rade. 9 On Janua ry 1, 1973 the tenth ed i t ion of the classification of import and export commodities came into effec t, covering 15,261 rather than 11,584 import items. On this basis, 14 items were pro- h ib i ted, 2,864 con tro l led, and 12,383 permissible. On Ma rch 16, 1973 many controlled items were sh i f ted to the permissible list and the breakdown became 13 items prohibited, 461 controlled, and 14,787 permissible. 10 Soybeans, whea t, barley, and corn. ill ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA customers. Another government trading agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Government, some local industries, and certain other customers. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("regis- tered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") f rom the Board of Foreign Trade; the firms must be operating in accordance with certain laws and have a m in imum capital of NT$500,000 and an "export record" equivalent to more than US$100,000 for the last year. Traders licensed to operate on a commission basis may act only as agents for foreign suppliers. They also must be registered by the Board of Foreign Trade. End-users and manufacturers are permitted to import raw materials, machinery, and replacement equipment needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into account such criteria as production capacity and equip- ment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point of view of the economic needs of the country. When the capital goods concerned are available from domestic sources, import licenses usually are not issued. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are licensed up to requirements (e.g., raw cotton, wool, and wood for the production of plywood). In certain manufac tur- ing industries, a stipulated m in imum ratio of the value of the manufac tured product must be met by use of domestic resources.11 According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of official exchange reserves, and (2) imports which are made without recourse to official exchange reserves and which comprise (a) those made under the U. S. P.L. 480 program and (b) those paid for w i th self-provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign investors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained w i th self-provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own fore ign exchange obtained by them prior to the ir coming to the Republic of China or or ig ina t ing f rom exchange receipts exempt f rom the surrender requirement.12 Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles require approval from the Central Bank of Ch ina. Paymen ts for invisibles directly related to trade are perm i t ted f ree ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The t rans fer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized foreign inves tmen ts in the Republic of China may be made 11 These r equ i r em en ts we re w i t h d r awn on Ma rch 16, 1973. 12 On J a n u a ry 24, 1973 it was announ c ed t h at the C en t r al Bank wou ld ex t end US$400 m i l l i on in fo r e ign ex ch ange loans to local m a n u f a c t u r e rs and impo r te rs in order to encou rage impo r ts. 112 without restriction. Residents may at any time (but not more often than four times a year) make outward trans- fers up to the equivalent of US$100 for any purpose other than import payments; applications for such per- sonal remittances are approved automatically. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allocated only up to established limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 70 per cent of their monthly salary. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their dependents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a mon th. Mem- bership fees of foreign institutions and certain payments for news services, books, and magazines (personal sub- scriptions for reference purposes) are also approved. Receipts from local subscriptions to, and sales of, imported newspapers and periodicals are remittable. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rental and of foreign entertainers' earnings may be transferred abroad; the rema inder is to be used for local expenses. The full amount of tuition and living expenses during the first academic year of students studying abroad may be remitted, and up to US$2,400 a year in the second to fifth academic years. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$600 a trip (US$300 for each accompanying dependent under the age of 12) for any approved type of travel; visas for tourist travel, however, are not normally granted to Chinese na t iona ls. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$ 1,000 a mon th for up to three months is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Applications for exchange to pay for certain o ther types of invisibles are approved on the ir merits. Residents leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more th an NT$ 1,000 in domestic bank- notes and coins and the equivalent of US$400 in foreign currencies. Nonres ident travelers who have stayed in the Repub l ic less than six mon ths may take w i th them any unspent portion of the fore ign currency which they registered upon entry, and may in add i t ion convert local currency into fore ign currency upon submission of the foreign exchange memo randum evidencing their acquisi- tion of local currency by sale of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds 13 All exports require licenses, ma in ly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to n o n c omm u n i st countries. The re-exportation of impor ted goods is perm i t ted af ter they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are hand led by government t rad ing agencies. Quota l im i ta t ions are ma in ta ined on the export of canned mushrooms and asparagus. The export of a few 13 Special r e g u l a t i o ns app ly to expo r ts and Kaoh s iung expo rt process ing zone. re-exports f rom the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other foods tuffs also is restricted. There are ceilings on the export of textiles to Canada, the United States, and the member countries of the EEC.14 Manufac turers who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, after export of the processed goods, re funded various charges imposed on such raw materials. These charges include import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers subm it satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not gran ted, however. With minor exceptions, exporters are required to surrender exchange earnings accruing from exports immediately af ter their collection. Most exports to any permitted destination may be made on a consignment or collection basis, provided that payment is not deferred for more than 180 days from shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide g i f ts and commodity samples up to the value of US$100 15 may be sent abroad. When leav- ing the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$10015 without providing evidence that they have surrendered foreign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to pro- ceeds from invisibles are generally similar to those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors out- side the country, and originally approved by the Central Bank of China, must be surrendered to the banks, but earnings from private investments abroad that have not been financed by ou tward remittances may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for deposit on a fore ign exchange account, from which they may be transferred freely. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$ 1,000 for each t rave le r; a license f rom the Ministry of Finance is required for impor t ing a larger amount. Capital Investments by nonresidents ( inc lud ing overseas Chinese) may be made in cap i tal equ ipment or raw materials, or through the t rans fer of fore ign currency to the Repub l ic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, as amended in 1959, and the 1971 S ta tu te for Encouragement of Investment, new foreign investments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) unrestricted transfer of 14 On J a n u a ry 23, 1973, expo r ts of wheat flour we re suspended for one year and expo r ts of steel i n d e f i n i t e l y. "Increased to US$200 on Ma rch 7, 1973. REPUBLIC OF CHINA net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, 2 years a f ter com- pletion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the invested fund s; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original fo rm; (4) favorable treat- ment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricul- tural land for industrial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immun i ty from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addition, foreign investments are granted trea tment at least as favorable as that accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of foreign investments provide for addi- tional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, invest- ments by nonresidents must be made in enterprises conducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as mining, communications, and manufac tur ing for domestic needs. Preference is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) who intend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under the foreign investment laws, as described above, must obtain approval from the M in is try of Economic Affairs. Pur- chases and sales of stocks and bonds by nonresidents must be made through the intermediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Department of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made outside the Republic of China in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, locally manufac tured equipment, and remittances of foreign exchange. Port- folio investment abroad by residents who are private persons is not normally permitted. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and foreign persons who have settled in the Republic of China and wish to re tu rn to their native countries, are not accorded any transfer facilities in respect of proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of their assets in the Republic. Persons outside the Republic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, and so fo r th, are not no rma l ly granted the right of t rans fe r r ing them from the Republic. Gold Producers of gold must sell their ou tput to ornamen- tal gold processors (registered goldsmiths, silversmiths, and jewe le r s ), th rough open tenders conducted by the Central Trust of Ch ina; gold de l ive red to the Central Trust for refining must have a fineness of 0.945, any 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA necessary reduc t ion b e ing und e r t ak en by the Taiwan Metal M i n i ng Co rpo ra t ion. Any newly produced gold that remains unsold at auction must be kept in the cus tody of i n s t i t u t i o ns specifically des igna ted by the Gove rnmen t; at present, only the Central Trust is so designated. O rnamen tal gold processors are not per- mitted to sell gold of a fineness in excess of 0.945. Other res iden ts may hold gold in any fo rm and of any fineness, but its use as collateral for loans is p roh ib i ted. Travelers may b r ing in any am o u nt of gold, which must be declared upon e n t ry if its we ight exceeds 5 shih l iang, i.e., 156.25 g r am s; other impo r ts of gold are not pe rm i t ted. Res iden ts may f ree ly take out gold in the form of jewelry, provided that its weight does not exceed 2 sh ih liang, i.e., 62.5 grams. Changes during 1972 January L Qu an t i t a t ive restrictions on impo r ts of passenger au tomob i les and taxis were l i f ted. January 5. The m i n im um advance se t t lemen ts in fo r- eign exchange for open ing sight letters of credit, usance letters of credit, and downpaymen ts for imports of machinery and equ ipment on an installment basis were reduced f rom 30 per cent to 20 per cent, f rom 15 per cent to 10 per cent, and f rom 20 per cent to 15 per cent, respectively. January 6. A new procedure came in to force for the screening by the Board of Foreign Trade of import applications by government enterprises. Import appli- cations could not be submitted where the price of similar locally produced goods, of good qua l i ty and produced in suff ic ient qu an t i ty to cover domestic demand, exceeded the import cost (c . i . f. price p lus taxes and dues) by less than 10 per cent. January 15. New regulations came into force con- cerning the export of products processed f rom imported raw materials and the import of raw materials by manu- facturers engaged in the export of processed industrial products. Factories could be registered as export processing factories on ly if the required raw materials were either not available locally or sold at prices 10 per cent or more in excess of their c.i.f. import prices. March 5. It was announced that restrictions on impor ts f rom Eastern Eu ropean countries were being relaxed and that the Gove rnment was cons ider ing per- m i t t i ng exports to those countries. April 3. The Cen t ral Bank of Ch ina in troduced for- ward cover fac i l i t ies in respect of impor ts and exports. Such cover cou ld be ob ta ined f rom authorized banks for periods f rom 30 to 180 days, at forward rates set daily by the Cen t ral Bank. For each fo rwa rd contract, 5 per cent of its amount had to be deposited in new Taiwan do l lars, for the du ra t ion of the contract, as a margin deposit. App l ica t ions for cover in excess of US$100,000 had to be subm i t ted to the Central Bank for prior approval. May 8 (Wash ing ton t im e ). The par value was changed from 0 .0222168 gram to 0.0204628 gram of fine gold. China also availed itself of wider margins. The basic exchange rate for the U. S. do l lar remained unchanged at NT$40.00 = US$1. May 11. New regu la t ions came in to force governing imports by "productive enterprises." June. Certain measures were taken to facilitate inward direct investment. Permission to import capital equ ipment could be given even where the equipment was also available locally, and permission could be given to import a six months' supply of raw materials inc luded on the con tro l led list. August 26. Importers of goods on the permissible list hence fo r th could con tract on documents against paymen t, documen ts against acceptance, or usance letter of credit terms. Previously, impor ts no rma l ly had to be made on a sight letter of credit basis. September 8. Contracts for imports f rom Japan were restricted to US$20,000 each, and importers and pro- ducers were advised to shift to other sources of supply. Subsequently, these directives were eased. October 31. The capital and "export record" require- ments that must be met to be accepted as a "registered" importer were raised. 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par v a lue for the Colom- bian Peso was established by Colombia w i th the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par va lue. All exchange transac- tions are effected th rough the Bank of the Republic ( the cen t ral b a n k) or the au tho r ized banks in the official market —the exchange certificate market, in which the ra te f l u c t u a t e s. On December 31, 1972 the average selling rate in the certificate market was Col$22.83 per US$1. The peso equ iv a l ent of the Gov- ernment's exchange receipts f rom the export tax on coffee is cred i ted to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at the central bank's accounting rate of Col$22.00 per US$1; the Gove rnment purchases exchange for all public debt paymen ts and other expen- ditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. There are also certain other effec t ive exchange rates. The d ifferent exchange rates and the types of t r a n s a c t i on to w h i ch t h ey app ly are set out in the Table of Exchange Rates, below. On December 31, 1972, the f lu c tu a t ing buy ing ra te for proceeds f rom coffee exports (after tak ing in to account a 20 per cent exchange t a x) was Col$18.22 per US$1, and that for most other exports about Col$26.16 per US$1. All imports are paid for at the certificate ma rket rate. In principle, all paymen ts and receipts in respect of cur- rent invisibles and capital also take place at that rate but d ifferent effective rates arise from the application of advance deposit requ i remen ts on exchange purchased for foreign travel and of advance payments deposits for purchases of exchange for many other purposes. A fixed rate of Col$20.00 per US$1 applies to certain petro- leum transactions. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate ru l ing on the date of issue, exchange warran ts (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio or titulos de divisas). These wa r ran ts which are expressed in U. S. dollars, are negotiable, and may also be exchanged, provided that the holder presents an exchange licence, for exchange certificates ( for the same amount of foreign currency and free of cha rge ); such exchange must take place between 45 and 180 days a f ter the date of issue. Within the period men- tioned, warrants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certificate market buying rate ruling on the date of repurchase and subject to a commission of 1 per mill. Warran ts bear interest at 7 per cent per annum. Warrants held for more than 180 days but less than two years may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate ruling 180 days after issue. They become null and void two years af ter issue. Foreign payments made with certificate exchange that has been acquired against warrants are exempt from the 95 per cent advance paymen ts deposit that must otherwise be lodged for many types of ou twa rd t ran s fe r s. Between 45 and 180 days a f ter issue, warran ts may also be used to pu rchase exchange for travel purposes, sub ject to the normal requ irement of a local cu r rency gua ran tee deposit. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Ins t i tu te of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). Exchange for paymen ts must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, paymen ts for current transactions, when made through credit institutions, do not require prior exchange licenses. The Monetary Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budget. It also establishes priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, a f ter setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the Na t ional Federation of Coffee Grow- ers. Overall import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Council. The Institute of Foreign Trade, through its Import Board, controls imports that are sub ject to prior licensing. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concern- ing direct inves tment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department, which evaluates new projects. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of fo re ign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trademarks, patents, etc. The Superinten- dency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting direct to the Presidency of the Repub- lic, enforces control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for violation of the exchange regulations currently in force. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international trans- actions are normally effected in U. S. dollars. Settle- ments with Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Spain, and Yugoslavia for commer- cial transactions must be made through clearing accounts in accordance with the provisions of the relevant bilat- eral payments agreement. Payments between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained within the framework of the LAFTA multi- lateral clearing system, and settlements with the Domin- ican Republic are also made through special accounts. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are authorized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia, and these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresi- dents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments Imports are classified as follows: goods whose import is prohibited; goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by the Institute of Foreign Trade; and goods that may be imported freely without license but subject to registration. In this last category, there is a global free list applicable to all countries and a Na t ional Free List applicable to LAFTA countries on ly; the latter contains all commodities that are on the global free list as well as some additional ones. These liberalized imports corre- sponded to about 30 per cent of 1972 reimbursable im- ports; l they comprise mainly certain raw materials and some types of machinery. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by the Institute of Foreign Trade to de term ine whether local substitutes are available. The prohibited list comprises mainly such items as arms and habit-forming drugs, certain food- stuffs, such as corn and m i lk, certain textiles and garments, jewelry, and a number of other consumer goods; imports of certain goods on this list may be licensed f rom t ime to time. Prior registration of the import transaction at the Institute of Foreign Trade is required for all imports other than those with an f.o.b. value of less than US$20 (or US$40 for books and pharmaceuticals). The charge for import registration is Col$ 100.00 (in some cases Col$5.00) plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent. Advance import deposits in Colombian currency must be made with the Bank of the Republic before import registration is pe rm i t ted; the deposit is norma l ly re- turned 85 days af ter the goods have cleared customs, but at the t ime of customs clearance if it is used to pay for imports concerned. The advance import deposit is payable at one of m a ny rates, depend ing on the type of goods; those impo r tant in practice are the rates of 1, 5, 10, 30, 50, 70, and 100 per cent.- The following impor ts are exempt f rom prior depos- its: nonre imbursab le imports; l imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements 1 The term reimbursable imports generally covers imports f inanced f rom Colombia's own foreign exchange reserves or financed w i th fo r- eign credit; they include imports under bilateral paymen ts agreemen ts. Nonre imbursab le imports consist ma in ly of aid imports under gran ts, commodities constituting part of a direct investment, and goods financed by certain types of long-term loans. - Mon e t a ry Board Reso lu t ion No. 19 of F e b r u a ry 28, 1973 reduced to 10 per cent all advance deposit ra tes in excess of 10 per cen t. 116 (Vallejo Plan); nearly all goods included in the Colom- bian National List and the special lists granting con- cessions to LAFTA countries; all imports made under preferential arrangements from Andean Group coun- tries; goods financed with credits having a ma tur i ty of at least 40 y e a r s ;3 noncommercial capital goods and components imported by the Government, departments, municipalities, official undertakings, semiofficial bodies, and public service agencies, and noncommercial goods when intended for mineral exploration or exploitation; goods imported by the National Federation of Coffee Growers for its own use; goods exempt by virtue of an international agreement; capital goods, components, and raw materials imported by firms sponsored and sup- ported by the Government, and firms holding foreign commitments backed by the Government; machinery and equipment coming under the tariff headings for the basic industries; goods of prime necessity imported by the Institute of Agricultural Marketing (IDEMA); most imports by universities and other nonprofit-making educational institutions; scientific and literary books, newspapers, and reviews that contribute to the culture of the Colombian people, together with capital goods for the production of such items; and sacramental wine. The advance import deposit is calculated on the f.o.b. value of the goods, at the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as deter- mined by the M in is t ry of F inance (the "Ministry of Finance exchange ra te" ). A prior exchange license is required for all payments for imports, except when they are made through credit institutions or are financed by letters of credit opened by bank ing ins t i tu t ions in countries with which bilateral paymen ts arrangemen ts or reciprocal credit agreements are in force ( inc lud ing the Dominican R epub l i c ). Licenses are granted by the Exchange Office, provided that it is satisfied that the goods have been cleared through customs and that payment is due. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for an exchange license, the importer must provide an advance payments deposit in pesos equivalent to 95 per cent of the exchange requested, calculated at the M in is try of Finance exchange rate (see above ). Exempt are import paymen ts by the government departments, mun ic ipa l i t ies, and official agencies, and payments for imports financed w i th fore ign credits extended to the Bank of the Repub l ic, goods for general consumption imported by the I n s t i t u te of Ag r icu l tu ral Marketing, payment for the c rude oil acquired by the national pe t ro leum comp any (Empresa Colombiana de Petro- leos —ECOPETROL) for re f in ing in Colombia, imports •financed by U. S. AID credits, imports for which pay- ment is made w i th in 30 days of shipment, and pay- ments, whe ther made by letters of credit or not, for impo r ts f r om countries w i th which b i la teral payments ! Goods so financed that are in c lud ed in the impo rt free list require an advance deposit of 10 per cent of the deposit payable on the same commodities when not imported under such credits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution arrangements or reciprocal credit arrangements are in force ( inc lud ing the Dominican Repub l ic). Import duties are calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 3 per cent of the c .i .f. value. Of the amounts collected, 50 per cent goes to the Export Promotion Fund, while the remaining 50 per cent goes to the Na t ional Coffee Fund. Exempt from this tax are imports by public entities, goods of LAFTA origin, and imports under the Vallejo Plan. Importers of goods financed by the U. S. AID are required to ship at least 50 per cent of the total vo lume of shipments on Colombian flag ships. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. In principle, all payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses, which are granted according to officially established priorities determined by the Monetary Board; however, the Bank of the Republic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit institutions without prior exchange license, and commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel and may also transfer without prior approval the mon th ly allowances of students studying abroad with government support. No advance payment deposit is required for invisibles, except for travel allowances, for which a 50 per cent prior deposit in local currency is requ ired .4 Paymen ts for travel abroad are limited to US$30 a person a day, not to exceed US$1,050 a person a year; this l im it may be raised to US$70 a day and US$6,300 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the coun t ry; t rans fe rs to professionals and technicians unde r tak ing courses abroad are generally restricted to US$504 a month for up to 12 months, wh i le for other s tuden ts the ceilings vary f rom US$200 to US$300 a mon th, depend ing on the cost of l iv ing in the coun try concerned. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their board ing pass. Colombian na t iona ls and resident fore igners are required to pay a travel tax of Col$500 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds There is a list of exports that are either prohibited or are subject to special requ i remen ts. Prior application for registration is requ ired for all exports except c rude oil, samples, and Colombian products in noncommer- 4 The depos i t, wh ich is ca lcu la ted on the basis of the M in is t ry of Finance exchange rate, must be made when app l ica t ion is made for the fore ign exchange and it is released upon the t rave le r 's re tu rn to Colombia, prov ided that he has stayed abroad the number of days for wh ich he was gran ted exchange. COLOMBIA cial quantities. If the application meets all legal require- ments, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, the exporter must provide either a per- sonal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any fund s) corresponding to the f u ll export value or a bank guarantee (usua l ly for 30 per cent of the same va lue ), to ensure that the proceeds will be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. The periods for surrendering export proceeds are as follows: ( 1) for coffee exports, within 20 days f rom the date of registration of the export; (2) for banana exports, 50 per cent of the value must be surrendered within 30 days following the registration of the export, and the remaining 50 per cent within 60 days after the registration; and ( 3) for other exports, generally w i th in 90 days from the same date. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds sur- rendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for impor ts under the Vallejo Plan incurred by the exporter concerned. All exchange proceeds from exports, except those f rom the export of crude oil not produced by ECOPETROL, must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum products, and cattle hides receive tax credit certificates (CATs) in an amount of 15 per cent of the total earnings surrendered, converted at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices six months a f ter issuance for the payment of income tax, add i t ional taxes, customs duties, and sales taxes ( three mon ths af ter issuance where exports of manu fac tu red goods are invo lved ). At the end of 1972 certificates ju st issued were quoted at a discount of about 8.5 per cent for six-month certificates and 4.4 per cent for th ree -mon th certificates; hence the effective exchange rate was Col$26.01 per US$1 for m anu f a c tu r ed exports and Col$25.87 per US$1 for other non trad i t ional exports. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is carried out by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are negotiable in the bankers' market. The certificates have a validity of 5 to 10 days, af ter which they must be surrendered to the central bank at 90 per cent of the lowest certificate rate quoted by the Bank in the preceding week. The su r render price for exports other than coffee varies with fluctuations in prices in the world market. Coffee exports are subject to the fo l low ing additional regu la t ions: ( 1) A m in imum surrender price (rein- tegro) is fixed af ter deduc t ion for f re ight and insur- ance, at US$91.20 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 20 per cent 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA ad valorem. Of this tax, 4 percentage points are paid to the Na t ional Coffee Fund wh i le the rema inder pro- vides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account, of which the net product fo rms a contribu- tion to the n a t ion al budget. The Special Exchange Account is credited at the Bank of the Repub l ic's accoun t ing rate of Col$22.00 per US$1. ( 3) Exporters must e i ther su r render in the fo rm of un t rea ted coffee to the Na t ional Federa t ion of Coffee Growers and without payment the equivalent of 30 per cent of the vo lume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention) or pay the Federation the peso equ iva len t. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an add i t ional tax of 6 per cent ad valorem (pasilla t a x ); the tax must be pa id, either in kind or in pesos, to the Federation. (5) A committee composed of the M in is te rs of Finance and Ag r icu l tu re and the Manag ing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buy ing price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per arroba of 12.5 kilograms. (6) Whenever the domestic support price, net of taxes and freight, exceeds a level corre- sponding to a spot New York price of US$0.57 a pound, the excess (net of taxes and levies) is shared among producer, Coffee Fund, and local producers' committees at a ra t io of 35 :30 :35; in that event, the retention is to be increased and the proceeds of the increase are paid to the Coffee Fund and the pro- ducers' committees. Anticipated export proceeds f rom coffee may be provisionally surrendered in advance of actual sur- render (when pref inanced by fore ign buye rs) provided that the latter takes place w i th in 60 days of the pro- visional surrender, at a provisional exchange rate of Col$19.00 per US$1.5 The peso payment to the coffee exporter at the time of actual surrender is based on the certificate market rate on the day of advance sur- render. Advance surrender of anticipated export pro- ceeds f rom products other than coffee may be made at the average rate of exchange certificates for the previous mon th, as determined by the M in is try of Finance, provided that the actual surrender takes place within 6 months of the provisional surrender, or within 12 months if the export value exceeds US$500,000. For these other exports, the peso payment to the exporter at the time of actual surrender is based on the certificate market rate on the day tt when the actual surrender takes place. (For exports of emeralds only 10 days are allowed between advance and actual surrender.) Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered; they are converted at the certificate market buying rate. 5 This te rm may be ex tended by ano ther 60 days. 0 Monetary Board Resolution No. 2 of January 17, 1973 established that for expor ts of commodities other than coffee the ac tual su r render would be based on the certificate market rate on the date of advance surrender. 118 Capital All inward and ou tward capital t ran s fe rs are effected at the cer t if ica te ma rket rate. AH fore ign inv e s tm ent in Colombia, a ll new foreign loans, direct l ines of fo re ign credit obtained by non- bank residents ,7 and the movement of capital previ- ous ly imported (except loans p rev iou s ly registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered w i th the Exchange Off ice of the Bank of the Repub l ic .* Cap i tal impo r ts also requ i re prior approval by the N a t ion al P l a n n i ng Department in accordance w i th d irec t ives issued by the National Council for Econom ic and Social Policy; capital for the pe t ro leum i n d u s t ry or for other m ine ral explora- t ion in add i t ion requ i res approval by the M in is try of M ines and Pe t ro leum. Cap i tal reg is tra t ion entitles the inves tor to export p ro f i ts and to repa tr ia te cap i tal at the certificate ma rket ra te on ce r ta in conditions speci- fied in R e so lu t ion No. 17 of J u ly 19, 1972 by the Na t ional Council for Economic and Social Policy. The t r a n s f er of profits is l im i t ed to 14 per cent of the net cap i tal v a lue in any one year (b eg inn ing with profits earned in 1 9 6 8 ), except for prof i ts re su l t ing from inve s tmen ts of o u t s t a n d i ng impo r tance or involving special risks in view of the c ircums tances prevailing in the i n t e r n a t i o n al money marke t. If in any year the ea rn ings rem i t ted are less th an 14 per cent, the balance may be rem i t ted in subsequent years, provided that the add i t ional rem i t tances do not exceed 3 per cent a year. New inves tmen ts may be granted exemptions from import d u ty and from advance deposit and import license requ i remen ts. Capital invested in the petroleum indus t ry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. Foreign loans contracted by pr iva te Colombian indi- v idua ls or firms are generally subject to a m in imum maturity of four years and to a maximum interest rate of 81/2 per cent per annum. Such loans are per- mitted on ly when needed as wo rk ing capital for manu- f a c tu r ing enterprises or for direct inves tment in indus- trial or agricultural activity. Con t rac ts i n v o l v i ng roya l t ies, commissions, trade- m a rks or pa ten t s, and s im i l ar a r rangemen ts must be registered w i th the Exchange Office to enable the bene- ficiary to make t r a n s f e rs abroad. They requ i re approval by the Roya l t ies Comm i t tee before they can be regis- tered. Co lomb ian na t iona ls who have invested abroad must su r render to the Bank of the Republic not only the in teres t, p ro f i ts, comm iss ions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or l i q u i d a t i on of the principal 7 Suppliers' cred i ts of a once-for-all na tu re do not requ i re registra- tion; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transac t ion. Such repaymen t, however, is subject to the 95 per cent advance paymen ts deposit. In add i t ion, such credits are sub ject to max imum interest ra tes of 8l/2 per cent. 8 At the end of 1972, the registration of certain foreign investments and of old contracts involving payment of roya l t ies, commissions, etc., had not yet been completed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution inv e s tm ent at the p r e v a i l i ng c e r t i f i c a te m a rk et ra te. Exports of c a p i t al by re s iden ts are re s t r ic ted and such exports by p r i v a te i n d i v i d u a ls are not no rma l ly per- m i t ted. A peso advance deposit co r r e spond ing to 95 per cent of the exchange reques ted is r equ i r ed for r e p a ym e n ts of p r i n c i p al on p r i v a te supp l i e r s' credits. Gold Physical and j u r i d i c al persons may t rade in Colombia in gold coins for co l lec t ion purposes on ly. With th is excep t ion, on ly the B ank of the R epub l ic is en t i t led to purchase, se l l, ho ld, impo r t, or expo rt gold. The Bank of the R epub l ic purchases the gold produced in the country at US$38 an ounce and is empowered to pay up to 50 per cent in fo re ign currency on presentation by fore ign cap i tal m i n i ng compan ies of exchange licenses en t i t l ing them to make paymen ts abroad for services, d iv idend s, c ap i t al repaymen ts, taxes, etc. The rema in ing 50 per cent and all paymen ts to the small producers are paid in pesos at the cer t if ica te ma rket exchange rate. On se l l ing the ir gold to the Bank of the Republic, the p roduce rs receive tax credit certificates equivalent to 15 per cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by the small producers are bought by the Bank of the Repub l ic in Colombian pesos at their market value. When the Bank sells newly mined gold abroad at market prices in excess of US$38 an ounce, it reimburses the producer for the d i f fe rence. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1972) COLOMBIA The B a nk of the R e p u b l ic makes domes t ic sales of gold for i n d u s t r i al use e i th er d i rect or th rough the Colombian M in ing Association at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the free external gold marke ts du r ing the previous mon th; this price is trans- lated into pesos at the preva i l ing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The Bank's exports of gold are made at world market prices and the excess over its purchase price of US$38 is paid out to the producers who have supplied the gold. Imports of gold also are a monopo ly of the Bank of the Republic; imports of nonmone tary gold are not norma l ly under taken. The assay and r e f i n i ng houses and the m i n i ng com- pan ies p roduc ing gold are u n d er the supervision of the Supe r in tendency of Exchange Control. In add i t ion, the m in ing companies must obtain a license from the Super- in tendency in order to ca r ry on the ir operations. The Bank of the Repub l ic f rom t ime to t ime strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Resi- den ts and nonres iden ts may f ree ly buy such co ins, but export licenses are not no rma l ly g ran ted. Changes during 1972 During the year, the selling rate in the certificate exchange market was gradually depreciated f rom Col$20.94 per U.S. dollar to Col$22.83 per U.S. dollar. There was no ma jor liberalization of the import system. Measures were taken to bring private sector borrowing Buying Selling (pesos per U. S. dollar} 18.22 (Certificate Market Rate less 20% Exchange Tax, Fluctuating Rate) Coffee exports.9 22.00 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Conversion of Government's receipts from exchange tax on coffee exports. 22.78 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Net proceeds from exports of crude oil and petro- leum derivatives,10 exports of cattle hides. Exports from free ports. All receipts from invisibles and capi- tal transfers. 26.16 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Cer- tificates for 15% of Export Value Converted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate} All other exports,'• " • 12'13 20.00 (Fixed Rate} Purchases of crude oil from foreign-owned compa- nies in Colombia for domestic re f in ing .14 22.00 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic} Government's purchases of exchange for servicing of public debt, diplomatic expenses, official travel, etc. 22.83 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) All impor ts. All other transac t ions. 15 9 Advance su r render of export proceeds may resu lt in d i f fe rent effec- tive rates; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above. 10 Receipts f rom exports of c rude oil by foreign-owned companies need not be surrended. 11 Tax credit certificates traded immediately a f ter issue were quo ted at a discount of 4.4 per cent for three-mon th ce r t i f ica tes and 8.5 per cent for six-month certificates. If these discounts are taken into account, the effective rate for exports of manu fac tu red goods was Col$26.01, and that for other nontraditional exports Col$25.87 per US$1. The average rate in the cer t if ica te market in the previous month (Novem- ber 1972) as determined by the Ministry of Finance was Col$22.55 per US$1. "The central bank purchases gold f rom domestic producers at a price corresponding to the world ma rket price of gold, c a l cu l a t ed at the same e f fec t ive rate as for exports of commodities eligible for that buy ing rate (i.e., at Col$26.16 per US$1 at the end of 1972). 13 With effect f r om January 1, 1973, the amount of tax credit certifi- cates gran ted on exports of emeralds was reduced f rom 15 per cent to 12 per cent of the export va lue. 14 This rate is also used as a computation rate to de term ine the price in pesos which ECOPETROL and foreign-owned companies receive for domestic sales of crude petroleum. 15 D i f fe rent effective rates arise f rom the application of advance deposit requirements to sales of exchange for travel purposes and the 95 per cent advance payments deposit requ i red for purchases of exchange for many other purposes. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA abroad under the control of the monetary authorities and to increase the vo lume of import payments effected before the end of 1972. (Import liberalization was increased sharply in February and May 1973.) January 2. The reciprocal credit agreement with Paraguay came into operation. January 3. A circular of the Bank of the Republic established that all trade with the Federal Republic of Germany could be settled in deutsche mark. January 7. The Ministry of Finance exchange rate (used for the calculation of import duties, advance import deposits, advance paymen ts deposits, and the 3 per cent tax on the c . i . f. value of impor ts) was set at Col$20.83 per US$1 for transac t ions effected between Janua ry 5 and February 4. January 27. All importation of oil-bearing seeds, grease, and an imal and vegetable oils was reserved for IDEM A (Instituto de Mercadeo Ag ropecua r io ). (M in- istry of Agriculture Resolution No. 025.) February 4. The M in is t ry of Finance exchange rate was set at Col$21.01 per US$1 for transactions effected between February 5 and March 4. February 15. By Decree No. 2382 /71 the redemp- tion date of tax credit certificates was reduced from nine to three months for manufactured products and f rom nine to six months for all other eligible exports. Council of Foreign Trade Reso lu t ion No. 02 listed all goods not considered as manu fac tu red goods. February 23. The m i n im um ma tu r i ty permitted for private loans raised abroad was set at 12 mon ths. The max imum interest rate for loans with a m a tu r i ty of up to two years was lowered to 8 per cent and that on loans with a m a tu r i ty exceeding two years was lowered to 8l/2 per cent. (Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 13.) February 23. The max imum ma tu r i ty for credits granted by travel companies operating in Colombia for the purchase of tickets for travel abroad or expenses to be incurred abroad was set at 12 mon th s. (Mone ta ry Board Reso lu t ion No. 16 .) February 26. As the first step in an overall tariff reform, the rates of import d u ty for some 800 items were altered; ta r i f fs were raised by 5 or 10 percentage points on most items wh i le the rates on m any others were reduced. (Decree No. 305.) February 23 and March 1. The advance import deposit rates for a wide range of goods ( inc lud ing organic chemicals, metal products, mach ine ry, and laboratory appa ra tu s) were reduced f rom 70 per cent, 100 per cent, and 130 per cent to 50 per cent and 30 per cent. The deposit rates for 22 i tems were reduced f rom 30 per cent to 10 per cent. (M o n e t a ry Board Reso lu t ions Nos. 14 and 17.) March 7. The M in is try of Finance exchange rate was set at Col$21.18 per US$1 for t ran sac t ions effected between Ma rch 5 and April 4. 120 March 8. The m in imum surrender price per 70-kilo- gram bag of coffee was raised from US$72.00 to US$73.50 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 20 ). March 8. Additional reductions in advance import deposit requirements took place. (Monetary Board Resolution No. 21 .) March 22. The m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was raised to US$74.50. (Monetary Board Resolution No. 25.) April 5. The Ministry of Finance exchange rate was set at Col$21.35 per US$1 for transactions effected between April 5 and May 4. April 12. Many rates of import duty that had been lowered by Decree No. 305 on February 26, 1972, were restored to their fo rmer level. (Decree No. 570.) April 26. Additional reductions in advance import deposit requirements took place. (Monetary Board Resolution No. 30.) May 3. The official price for sales of newly mined gold to the central bank was raised f rom US$35 to US$38 per troy ounce of fine gold. (Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 33.) May 5. The Ministry of Finance exchange rate was set at Col$21.52 per US$1 for transactions effected between May 5 and June 4. May 24. Mone tary Board Resolution No. 37 amended and codified the regulations pertaining to private external debt. ( 1) As regards private external loans, the m in imum ma tur i ty for private (nonbank) loans raised abroad was increased from one to two years. Limits were set on the rate of amortization. Max imum interest rates were to be set periodically by the Mone tary Board on the basis of the interbank rate in the in te rna t ional market. The requirement that a deposit in local cu r rency corresponding to 95 per cent of loans taken up be placed w i th the Exchange Office was abolished. Debt service had to be effected in the currency in which the loan was obtained. (2) Direct lines of credit for import financing were made subject to a max imum ma tu r i ty of four months, although a longer ma tu r i ty was permitted for capital goods. The max imum interest rate, inc lud ing fees and commissions, had to con fo rm w i th Mone tary Board regulations. (3) As regards export p r e f in an c ing, the max imum term between advance su r render and actual surrender was reduced from 24 to 18 months for exports valued at more than US$500,000. (4) As regards external oper- ations, the reserve requ i rement on commercial banks' short-term fore ign liabilities was raised from 18 per cent to 25 per cent, effective Ju ly 3, and for investment banks the reserve requ i rement was set at 30 per cent. Foreign liabilities of branches of foreign banks and of Colombian banks w i th branches abroad were exempt from the reserve requirement but had to conform to the regu la t ions on ma tu r i ty and interest rate that were applicable to private external loans. A marginal reserve ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution requirement of 25 per cent, applicable to both com- mercial and investment banks, was set on increases in export f inanc ing liabilities af ter May 30, 1972 (invest- ment banks previously were subject to a marginal reserve requ irement of 30 per cent, but commercial banks were exemp t ). Provisions were also included regarding foreign exchange guarantees. An absolute l im it of 100 per cent of paid-in capital and legal reserves was set for foreign exchange guarantees extended by commercial and investment banks. The mon th ly increase in such guar- antees could not be more than 1 per cent over the level on May 31, 1972. The l im i ta t ion applied only when total ou ts tand ing guaran tees in fore ign exchange exceeded US$1 m i l l ion. (Some f lex ib i l i ty was available in that a cumu la t ive l im it of a 6 per cent increase in six mon ths, beg inn ing Ju ly 1, was substituted for the mon th ly l im it of 1 per cen t .) The fo l low ing guarantees in fore ign exchange were exempt f r om the foregoing l im i ta t ion: (a) those ensur ing f u l f i l lm e nt of loan con- tracts or payment for impor ts; (b) those connected with export financing by the Export P romo t ion Fund; (c) those granted in f avor of in te rna t ional organiza- tions or off ic ial export credit ins t i tu t ions; (d) those granted for ob l iga t ions of authorized in s t i tu t ions of higher l e a rn ing; (e) those gran ted for ob l iga t ions for the financing of mu l t in a t ion al projects in which the Colombian pub l ic sector takes par t, and for credit operations of basic indu s t r ies of an official character, subject to ind iv idual approval of app l ica t ions by the Monetary Board. May 24. The m a x im um interest rate on direct lines of credit for impo rt financing was set at 6.5 per cent a year, w i th effect f rom June 1. (Mone ta ry Board Reso- lu t ion No. 38 .) May 25. Add i t ional customs du t ies that had been reduced on Feb rua ry 26 were restored to the ir fo rmer level. (Decree No. 875.) May 31. The m i n im um su r render price for coffee exports was raised to US$76.20. (Mone ta ry Board Reso lu t ion No. 39.) May 31. The Mone ta ry Board con f i rmed that, as p rev ious ly, fore ign m i n i ng compan ies se l l ing gold to the cen tral bank would receive 50 per cent of the price in fo re ign exchange, and the rest in Co lomb ian cur- rency at the ce r t i f ica te m a rk et rate. Locally owned pro- ducers wou ld receive the en t i re proceeds in local currency. The new price of gold (see May 3, above) also was conf irmed. (Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 40.) June 6. The M in i s t ry of F inance exchange ra te was set at Col$21 .69 per US$1 for t r an s a c t ions effected between June 5 and Ju ly 4. June 6. Additional import du t ies that had been reduced on February 26 were restored to the ir fo rmer level. (Decree No. 946.) COLOMBIA June 21. The advance surrender of proceeds from exports of emeralds had to be converted into actual surrender within ten days. (Mone tary Board Resolu- t ion No. 46.) June 24. Additional customs duties that had been reduced on February 26 were restored to their former levels. (Decree No. 1100.) June 28. The increase f rom 18 per cent to 25 per cent in the reserve requirement applied to commercial banks' short-term fore ign l iab i l i t ies (Mone tary Board Resolution No. 37, May 24, 1972) was phased so that the 25 per cent requ irement did not become applicable un t il Ju ly 17. (Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 48.) July 5. Import duties on a number of products needed as inputs in domestic industries were reduced. (Decrees Nos. 1145, 1146, 1147, and 1148.) July 5. It was clarified that Monetary Board Resolu- tion No. 37 of May 24 implied that direct lines of credit could only be used for payments for imports of goods. In the fu ture, the pref inanc ing of exports other than coffee could only be effected through du ly authorized domestic credit institutions or through the Export Pro- motion Fund. Furthermore, domestic credit institutions could apply for transfers of interest payments only when they were cosignatories or otherwise were perma- nen t ly involved w i th the loan (Exchange Office General Circular No. 25 ). July 5. The coffee retention quota was set at a quan- tity of un trea ted coffee equivalent to 23 per cent of the coffee to be exported. (Decree No. 1144.) July 5. The advance payments deposit requirement was suspended un t il August 15 for purchases of foreign exchange for import payments. (Monetary Board Reso- lution No. 49 .) July 5. The M in is try of Finance exchange rate was set at Col$21.84 per US$1 for transactions effected between Ju ly 5 and August 4. July 12. The m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was raised to US$80.40. (Monetary Board Resolution No. 50.) July 18. Decree No. 1234 provided that all technical service contracts as well as trademarks, patents, and licensing and royalty agreements w i th foreign firms required both the prior approval of the Exchange Office and authorization by the Royalty Commission. It also set out the criteria for acceptance or rejection of appli- cations for approval. July 19. Monetary Board Resolution No. 52 elimi- nated the 85-day waiting period af ter customs clear- ance for the re turn of advance import deposits when the funds were used for the payment of current imports. The resolution also perm i t ted advance repayment of foreign loans of which the foreign currency proceeds had been surrendered before December 31, 1971. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA July 19. Re so lu t ion No. 17 of the Na t ional Council for Economic and Social Policy provided that all for- eign inves tmen ts in Colombia needed pr ior app roval by the National P l a n n i ng Department, w i th the exception of fore ign inve s tment in the pe t ro leum sector and of reinvestments not exceeding 5 per cent of the com- pany's net va lue. The reso lu t ion spelled out the criteria to be used by the P l a n n i ng D e p a r tm e nt in i ts consider- ation of applications. July 21. The coffee re ten t ion quo ta was ra ised to 25 p e r c e n t. (Decree No. 1274 .) July 26. The foreign exchange guaran tees g r an t ed by commercial and inves tment banks to support ex ternal credits utilized to f inance or r e f in an ce impo r ts made by off ic ial en t i t ies in order to m a i n t a in a no rmal supp ly of primary goods were exempted f rom the l im i ts on the ir increase that had been set by Mone tary Board Reso lu- tion No. 37. (Mone ta ry Board Reso lu t ion No. 53.) July 31. The coffee r e t en t ion quo ta was raised to a quantity of un trea ted coffee equ iv a l ent to 27 k i log r ams per 70-kilogram bag exported, i.e., to 39 per cent. (Decree No. 1322 .) August 4. The M in i s t ry of F inance exchange rate was set at Col$21.98 per US$1 for transac t ions effected between August 5 and September 4. August 22. The time l im it for the su r render of pro- ceeds f rom exports of books and magazines was increased f rom 12 to 18 mon th s. ( I n s t i t u te of Foreign Trade Resolution No. 547.) August 30. The t ime l im it for the convers ion of advance export surrender deposits in to ac tual su r render of export proceeds was reduced for products other than coffee and emera lds f rom 12 to 6 mon ths for exports valued up to US$500,000, and f rom 18 to 12 months for exports valued at over US$500,000. Substitution of the product for which the advance export surrender had been made wou ld not be pe rm i t ted. (Mone tary Board Resolution No. 59.) September 5. The Ministry of Finance exchange rate was set at Col$22.10 per US$1 for transactions effected between September 5 and October 4. September 6. The Exchange Office was au thor ized to register special direct lines of credit in U. S. dollars, subject to prior recommendation in each case by the Monetary Board. Such lines of credit would be for the f inanc ing of imports of capital goods or of intermediate goods needed for the m anu f a c tu re of durab le consumer goods. They could also be used for export financing. Registration of import credits was subject to the fo l- lowing conditions: ( 1) The amortization period for each drawing under the credit line must not be less than 24 months. (2) The effective interest rate for operations with a maturity of two years must not exceed 8 per cent, and for operations with a maturity in excess of two years it must not exceed 8.5 per cent. ( 3) Drawings under each credit line had to be at least 122 US$1 m i l l ion a year. Direct credits granted by foreign corporations to subsidiaries in Colombia to finance imports of raw materials had to con fo rm to the m in i- mum term of two years. The cond i t ions for the registration of export credits were: (1) The amo r t iza t ion period for each draw ing under the credit l ine mu st be less than 18 months. (2) The e f fec t ive in te rest ra te must not exceed 8 per cent. (3) Draw ings und er each credit l ine must be at least US$1 m i l l ion a year. Credit opera t ions connected with export p r e f in an c ing by commercial banks and invest- ment b anks were l im i t ed to the average level of these operations f rom J u ne to Augu st 1972, or to the bal- ance on A u g u st 31, 1972. (Mone ta ry Board Resolu- t ion No. 61 .) September 6. The m i n im um su r render price for coffee exports was raised to US$91.20. (Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 63.) September 8. The coffee retention quo ta was reduced to the equ iva lent of 22.5 k i log rams per 70-kilogram bag of coffee to be exported (i .e ., to 32 per c e n t ). (Decree No. 1639 Bis.) September 30. With effect f rom January 1, 1973, Decree No. 1841 lowered the tax credit certificate rate for expor ts of emeralds f rom 15 per cent to 12 per cent. October 3. It was provided that w i th effect f rom Janua ry 15, 1973, all rem i t tances abroad related to film distribution contracts wou ld requ ire the prior approval of the Roya l ty Comm iss ion. (Re so lu t ion No. 1 of the Roya l ty Comm iss ion .) October 5. The M in i s t ry of Finance exchange rate was set at Col$22.27 per US$1 for transactions effected between October 5 and November 4. October 6. The fun c t ions of the National Council on Customs Policy were specified. (Decree No. 1868.) October 16. A tr ipar t i te agreement was concluded concerning the sharing among coffee producers, Coffee Fund, and local producers' committees of any excess of the domestic suppo rt p r ice for coffee over a specified New York spot price. October 20. The coffee retention quota was reduced to the equivalent of 30 per cent of coffee exports. (Decree No. 1939.) October 30. It was announced that persons who had effected impo r ts p r ior to J u ne 30, 1971 and whose exter- nal credits were to expire before December 31, 1972, would be permitted to obtain foreign currency under the ordinary exchange budget at the t ime of expiration. As f rom Janua ry 1, 1973 no foreign exchange would be made available for such payments. (Monetary Board Resolution No. 70.) November 1. Physical and jur id ical persons in Colom- bia were prohibited from taking up loans abroad dur- ing November and December. The conversion into ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Co lomb ian cu r r en cy of fo re ign c u r r e n cy de r ived f r om p r iv a te ex t e rn al loans was suspended u n t il December 31, 1972. C red it i n s t i t u t i o ns were f o r b i d d en to a r r ange re f inanc ing or ex ten s ion of ob l ig a t ions in f o r e i gn cu r- rency un l e ss t h is was p a rt of the o r ig inal con t r a c t. Pri- vate e x t e r n al lo ans c o n v e r t ed a f t er J a n u a ry 1, 1973 would have to con fo rm to the f o l l ow i ng cond i t ion s: ( 1) The am o r t i z a t i on period m u st not be less t h an 48 months. (2) The in t e r e st ra te mu st not exceed that set by the M o n e t a ry Boa rd. ( 3) Such lo ans w o u ld be per- m i t t ed on ly if it was shown to the sa t i s fac t ion of the Exchange Office t h at they were needed as wo rk ing cap i tal for m a n u f a c t u r i ng en te rp r i ses or for direct inve s tmen ts in i n d u s t r i al or a g r i c u l t u r al a c t i v i t i es t h at were in c o n f o rm i ty w i th the legal purpose of the bor- rowing en te rp r i se. The ex t en s ion or r e f i n a n c i ng of older loans had to c o n f o rm to the regulations c o v e r i ng new loans. (M o n e t a ry Board Re so lu t ion No. 69 .) November 7. The M i n i s t ry of F inance exchange ra te was set at Col$22 .42 per US$1 for t ran sac t ions effected between Nov emb er 5 and December 4. November 8. F u r t h er reduc t ions in the adv an ce import deposit r e q u i r em e n ts took place. (Mon e t a ry Board Reso lu t ion No. 72 .) November 22. Mon e t a ry Board Reso lu t ion No. 75 extended the r egu l a t ions g iven in M o n e t a ry Board Res- o lu t ion No. 70 of October 30 conce rn ing p aym en ts for impo r ts. However, as of J a n u a ry 1, 1973, the exchange application for p aym en ts for impo r ts effected before June 30, 1971 wou ld have to be accompanied by a deposit co r respond ing to 150 per cent of the exchange value. Two th i rds could be used as payment for the foreign exchange, wh i le the rema inder wou ld be repa id af ter 90 days. As f rom Feb rua ry 1, 1973 the deposit requirement wou ld increase to 200 per cent, of which one half could be used to pay for the exchange, and the other half would be repaid a f t er 90 days. The exchange app l ica t ions in question would be exempt from the p rov i s ional 95 per cent deposit requirement. November 22. The max imum maturity for import credits granted by credit in s t i tu t ions was increased to six months for consumer goods and raw ma ter ia ls, and to one year for cap i tal goods. In special cases the maturity for capital goods could be up to three years. The prohibition in Monetary Board Resolution No. 69 against the extension or re f inanc ing of obligations in foreign currencies was revoked. (Mone ta ry Board Res- olution No. 76.) November 29. The range of permissible remittances to students studying abroad was increased from COLOMBIA US$120-200 to US$200-300 a month, depending on the cost of l iv ing in the coun try concerned (ICETEX Reso lu t ion No. 1505 and Exchange Office Circular No. 46, September 30 ). November 29. Fu r ther reduc t ions in advance impo rt deposit requ i remen ts took place. (Mon e t a ry Board Res- o l u t i on No. 77.) December 1. Decree No. 2248 provided for certain measures for the pro tec t ion of domes t ic m a n u f a c t u r i ng industries. Pub l ic sector pu rchases were to be directed p r im a r i ly to domestic indu s t r ial produc ts. December 5. The M in i s t ry of F inance exchange rate was set at Col$22.55 per US$1 for transactions effected between December 5, 1972 and J a n u a ry 4, 1973. December 7. It was c la r i f ied that the deposits of 150 per cent and 200 per cent prescribed by Mone tary Board Reso lu t ion No. 75 were required also for paymen ts to coun tr ies with which paymen ts agreemen ts were in force. (Exchange Office General Circular No. 45.) December 13. The exchange rate for the actual sur- render of proceeds f rom coffee exports, a f t er advance su r render had taken place, was changed f rom the cer- tificate market rate on the day of ac tual surrender to the certificate ma rket ra te on the day of advance sur- rende r. The advance surrender con t inued to be effected at Co l$19 per US$1. The actual surrender had to take place w i th in 60 days of the advance surrender, but with the approval of the Na t ional Coffee Growers' Association and the central bank that period could be extended by ano ther 60 days. Coffee exporters were given 60 days f rom the date of advance surrender to pay the coffee tax —impues to cafetero—(Monetary Board Resolution No. 7 9 ). December 14. An export tax on coffee of Col$0.25 per bag of 70 k i lograms, which had been in existence since 1937, was eliminated. (Law No. 11 of 1972.) December 20. The interest rate paid on exchange warrants was raised f rom 5 per cent to 7 per cent per annum (Monetary Board Resolution No. 83.) December 20. The accounting rate of the central bank was raised from Col$20.15 per US$1 to Col$22.00 per US$ 1, to be applicable for the first time to the bal- ance sheet for December 1972. (Mone tary Board Reso- lution No. 84.) December 30. Import duties on 569 tariff items were increased by an average of 3 to 4 percentage points, in order to adapt the Colombian customs tariff to the Mini- mum External Tariff and the Common External Tariff of the Andean Group. (Decree No. 2523.) 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Exchange Rate System * No par va lue for the currency of the People's Repub- lic of the Congo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC )2 and commerc ial b a n ks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions re la t ing to foreign countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, take place in a dual exchange market, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial f ranc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other current trans- actions, as well as all cu r rent payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign pub l ic authorities and public bodies. All other se t t lemen ts with fore ign countries as well as transactions in bankno tes of foreign countries and bankno tes issued by the BCEAEC, take place through the financial f ranc market at free ly fluctuating rates. The principal payments and receipts channeled through the financial f ranc market are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remit- tances. Exchange rates in the offiical market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 = US$1. Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are un res t r ic ted: ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Repub- lic, Chad, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Mala- gasy Repub l ic, Ma l i, Mau r i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Se t t lemen ts and inves tment trans- actions w i th all fo re ign coun tr ies, however, are sub- ject to con tro l. Foreign countries are de f ined as all coun tr ies outside the People's Republic of the Congo. Payments to France, Monaco, and the Operations * Fo l low ing the announ c em ent on F e b r u a ry 12, 1973 th at the U. S. d o l l ar was be ing deva lued, the exchange ra te of CFAF 1 — F 0.02 was ma in ta ined, and the e f fec t ive p a r i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dol- lar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. 1 The CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in the People's R e p u b l ic of the Congo is issued by the B anque C en t r a le des E t a ts de 1 'A f r i q ue E q u a t o r i a le et du C am e r o un (BC EA EC) and is legal t e n d er also in C am e roon, the C e n t r al A f r i c an R e p u b l i c, Chad, and Gabon. - E a r ly in 1973, the BCEAEC was replaced by the B anque des E ta ts de 1 'A f r i q ue C en t r a le (BEAC ). 124 Account countries (as well as the purchase of their banknotes and travelers checks) are subject to a com- mission of 1 per cent, subject to a m in imum of CFAF 100; exempt are paymen ts of the State, the sal- aries of Congolese d ip loma ts abroad, the expenditures of o f f ic ial missions abroad, and the scholarships of per- sons s tudy ing or t ra in ing abroad.3 Payments to other foreign coun t r i es and c red i ts to Foreign Accoun ts in Francs are subject to a commission of 0.60 per cent or, for imports of petroleum and petroleum products, 0.10 per cent; this commission also is subject to a m in imum of CFAF 100. Administration of Control The Office of Ex ternal Financial Relations in the M i n i s t ry of F in an ce and the Budget superv ises borrow- ing and l e n d i ng a b r o a d, the i s su ing, adve r t is ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of f o r e i gn secu r i t ies in Congo, and i nw a rd and o u tw a rd d i r e ct i n v e s tm e n t. Exchange con- t rol is a dm i n i s t e r ed by the M i n i s t er of F inance and the Budg e t, who has de lega ted h is app rov al au tho r i ty to the Office of Ex t e rn al F inanc ial Relations and the authorized banks. All exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Admin- is tra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the Fo re ign Trade Off ice in the M i n i s t ry of Economic A f f a i r s, except those for go ld, w h i ch a re gran ted by the Office of Ex t e rn al F inanc ial Re la t ions. Prescription of Currency The People's R e p u b l ic of the Congo is an Operations Account c o u n t ry of the F rench Franc Area, since the BCEAEC m a i n t a i ns an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the F r en ch T r e a s u r y; s e t t l em e n ts w i th France, Monaco, and the o ther Op e r a t ions A c c o u nt coun t r ies of the F r e n ch F ranc Area are made in CFA f r an c s, French f r a n c s, or the c u r r e n cy of any other in s t i tu te of issue t h at m a i n t a i ns an O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt w i th t he French T rea su ry. S e t t l em en ts w i th m a i n l a nd Ch ina a re made t h r o u gh spec ial accoun ts e s t a b l i s h ed u n d er a b i la teral paymen ts agreemen t .4 Settlements with all other coun- t r i es a re u s u a l ly made in any of the cu r r en c i es of those coun t r ies or in French f rancs th rough Foreign or Finan- c ial Accoun ts in Francs. Ail paymen ts to Portugal r equ i re the p r ior app roval of the M in is try of Finance and the Budg e t. A ll se t t lemen ts be tween Congo and Rhode s ia a re p roh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The r e g u l a t i o ns p e r t a i n i ng to non r e s id ent accounts :! A n um b er of add i t ional e x em p t i o ns were g ran ted on Feb rua ry 28, 1973. They i n c l u d ed e x em p t i o ns for a ll t r a n s f e rs of the Postal Ad- m i n i s t r a t i on and the C en t r al Bank. 1 The re a re i n o p e r a t i ve p a ym e n ts a g r e em e n ts w i th B u l g a r i a, North K o r e a, and Mali. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BCEAEC banknotes to Financial Accounts in Francs is perm i t ted when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAEC in Brazzav i l le by fo re ign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of v i r t u a l ly a ll commod i t ies f rom countries in the French Franc Area and f rom EEC coun tr ies o ther t h an France may be made free ly. A ll impo r ts of Portuguese or Rhode s ian o r ig in are p roh ib i ted. Impor ts from a ll non-EEC coun t r ies ou ts ide the French Franc Area are subject to l icen s ing in accordance w i th an annual impo rt p rog r am; the p rog ram also inc ludes ind i c a t ive quo tas for a few commod i t ies f rom EEC coun t r ies o ther t h an France. This p rog ram is de ter- m ined by a j o i nt French-Congolese Comm i t tee. The impo rt program does not i n c l u de pe t ro leum impo r t s, for wh i ch a jo int q u o ta is set for the coun t r ies of the Cen t ral A f r i c an Cus toms and Economic Union (UDEAC). Also ou t s ide the p rog ram are impo r ts for the G o v e r nm e nt u n d er fo re ign a id and b i l a t e r al pay- men ts ag reemen ts and im p o r ts made by OFNACOM (Off ice N a t i o n al du Comm e r c e) or BCCO (Bu reau pour la C rea t ion, le Con t ro le et 1 'O r ien ta t ion des En tre- prises et E x p l o i t a t i o ns d 'E t a t ). The q u o t as for non-EEC coun tr ies may be used to im p o rt goods o r i g i n a t i ng in any coun t ry ou t s ide the F rench F ranc A rea. L icenses for l ibe ra l ized c omm o d i t i es o r i g i n a t i ng in EEC c o u n t r i es other th an France are issued au toma t ica l ly. Impo r ts f r om non -UDEAC coun t r ies of c e r t a in goods a re not p e rm i t t ed un l e ss the impo r t er also buys a c e r t a in q u a n t i ty of the local p rodu ct (jumelage). OFNACOM has a monopoly over certain imports, inc lud ing hardware, rice, and salted fish f rom all sources, cer ta in cotton piece goods f rom Japan, and certain o ther textiles f rom m a in l and China. All import t ransac t ions re la t ing to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Licenses for imports f rom coun t r i es other than France, Monaco and the Operations Account countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and that of the Office of Ex ternal F inanc ial Relations. The approved import license en t i t les importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documen ts are subm i t ted to the au tho r ized b a n k. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Opera t ions Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted f r e e ly provided they have been declared and are made th rough an authorized in termed iary; those to other fo re ign coun tr ies are sub- ject to approval. For many types of payment the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO permitted f ree ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to foreign countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under t e n) for any numb er of trips a year; any foreign exchange rema in ing af ter return to Congo in excess of CFAF 5,000 must be surrendered. For busi- ness travel to such fore ign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Additional amounts of foreign exchange for business travel may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than za ire bankno te s. The t r a n s f er of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Congo is per- mitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three mon ths of the pay period. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, or an Operations Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 in BCEAEC banknotes or French banknotes .5 Resident and nonresident trav- elers going to foreign countries other than France, Monaco, or the Operations Account countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAEC bankno tes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury.6'7 Nonres ident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en t ry or, if no declaration was made, up to the equ iv a l ent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any foreign means of payment obtained f rom an authorized bank to the debit of a Financial Account in Francs or a Foreign Cu r rency Accoun t; they may reconvert up to CFAF 175,000 in BCEAEC banknotes into foreign currency.8 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodes ia are p roh ib i ted. Most exports to coun t r ies in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the excep t ions are commodities exported by the 3 On Ma rch 8, 1973, F rench bankno tes were exc luded f r om the ceil- ing of C FAF 25,000. The r egu l a t ions issued on that da te w i th respect to the im p o rt and e x p o rt of dom e s t ic and f o r e i gn means of p a ym e nt w e re not a p p l i c a b le to t r a v el b e tw e en Congo and Z a i r e. (i On Ma rch 8, 1973 the am o u nt of CFA bankno tes or f o r e i gn bank- no tes t h at re s ident t r a v e l e rs cou ld take out to coun t r ies other t h an F rance, Monaco, and the O p e r a t i o ns A c count coun t r i es was r edu c ed to C FAF 10,000 for t r ips of less t h an 24 hou r s. 7 The am o u nt of CFA bankno tes t h at non r e s id en ts may f ree ly take out was on March 8, 1973 reduced to CFAF 10,000. s The r e g u l a t i o ns we re revised on Ma rch 8, 1973. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO N a t i o n al M a r k e t i ng O f f ice f or A g r i c u l t u r al P roduc ts (Office N a t i o n al de Comm e r c i a l i s a t ion des P rodu i ts Ag r i co l e s, or ONCPA) or o ther state en terpr ises hav ing an expo rt m o n o p o l y. A ll o ther expo r ts r e q u i re ind i- v i d u al l icenses. Proceeds f r om expor ts to fo re ign c o u n t r i es must be collected and r ep a t r i a t ed, gene ra l ly w i t h in 180 days of a r r iv al of the commod i t ies at the ir d e s t in a t ion. Export proceeds mu st be su r r end e r ed w i th in a m o n th of the due date. A ll export t r a n s a c t i o ns r e l a t ing to countries o ther than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies must be domiciled w i th an author- ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll amoun ts due f rom res iden ts of fo re ign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun tr ies f rom fo re ign assets must be collected when due and surrendered w i th in a mon th of the due date. Re s ident and non re s ident t rave le rs may b r ing in any am o u nt of b ankno t es and co ins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any o ther b ank of issue ma in- t a i n i ng an Ope ra t ions Account with the French Treas- u ry, as well as any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and co ins (except gold c o i n s ). Capital All capital movemen ts be tween Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Movemen ts of f u n ds between Congo and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free, although sub ject to d e c l a r a t i o n; most i n v e s tm e nt op e r a t ions and borrow ing and lend ing between Congo and these coun- tries are subject to au tho r iza t ion. Capital t rans fe rs to all other coun t r ies requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such coun- tries generally are permitted free ly. All foreign secu- rities, fore ign currency, and titles embody ing claims on foreign countries or nonres iden ts that are held in Congo by residents or nonres iden ts must be deposited with authorized banks in Congo. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad 9 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo 10 require the prior approval 9 Including those made through the in te rmed ia ry of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Congo. 10 Including those involving the cession between nonresidents of a participation in the capital of a Congolese company. 126 by the M in i s ter of F inance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed economy enterprise. The fu ll or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in Congo must be declared to the M in is ter. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, whether these are Congolese inve s tmen ts abroad or fo re ign investments in Congo, mu st be reported to the Minister within 20 days fo l low ing each ope ra t ion. Direct investments are de f ined as i n v e s tm e n ts imp ly ing control of a company or en terpr ise. The i s su ing, adve r t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo re ign securities in Congo requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) bor- rowing backed by a gua ran tee f rom the Congolese Government and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, adver t is ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale in Congo has p rev ious ly been authorized. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires p r ior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Finance and the Budge t. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this a u t h o r i z a t i o n: ( 1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct invest- ment in Congo for which prior approval has been obtained as ind ica ted above; (2) loans contracted by registered b ank s; and ( 3) loans other than those men- t ioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower. The con t rac t ing of loans that are free of au tho r iza t ion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Ex ternal Financial Rela- tions w i th in 20 days of the operation. L end ing by re s iden ts to non res iden ts is subject to exchange con t ro l. In add i t ion, lend ing to nonresi- den ts requ i res pr ior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of F inance and the Budget. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f r om th is au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans granted by registered bank s; (2) other loans when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion for any one lender; and ( 3) loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 per cent a year and whose ma tu r i ty is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of au thor iza t ion, and each repay- ment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Exter- nal Financial Re la t ions within 20 days of the operation. Under the I n v e s tm e nt Code of J u ne 1961, as amended on December 29, 1962, any en te rp r i se established in Congo, whe ther domes t ic or fo re ign, is g ran ted, under c e r t a in c o n d i t i o n s, reduced d u t i es and taxes on specified impo r ts as w e ll as exemp t ion f rom d i rect taxes on speci- fied income. The Code also provides for three categories of pref- e r en t i al t r e a tm en t, in accordance w i th wh i ch fiscal and o ther privileges may be accorded to firms inves t ing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Congo; it is g ran ted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatments applies to enterprises ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution whose a c t i v i ty and m a r k et i n c l u de the t e r r i to ry of two or mo re s ta tes of the f o rm er E q u a t o r i al Cu s toms U n i on (the C en t r al A f r i c an R epub l i c, Chad, Congo, and G a b o n ). Preferential treatment C is reserved for enter- pr ises of p r ime im p o r t a n ce to the c o u n t r y 's econom ic d e v e l o pm e n t; it p r o v i d es for s t a b i l i z a t i on of t h e ir f iscal cha rges for up to 20 y e a r s. The g r a n t i ng of any one of t he t h r ee k i n ds of p r e f e r e n t i al t r e a tm e nt a u t om a t i c a l ly i n c l u d es t he a p p l i c a t i on of spec i f ied e x em p t i o ns f r om d i r e ct taxes w h i ch a re g r a n t ed to a ll i n v e s tm e n ts in Congo. Reques ts f or a p p r o v al f or p r e f e r e n t i al t r e a tm e nt mu st be s u bm i t t ed to the M i n i s t er of F in an ce and the Budge t, who, a f t er e x am i n i ng the d o c um e n t s, t r a n sm i ts them to the I n v e s tm e nt C omm i s s i o n. A f t er an o p i n i on has been given by t h at C omm i s s i o n, the p ro ject is subm i t t ed to the C o u n c il of M i n i s t e r s. P r e f e r e n t i al t r e a tm e nt A is g r an t ed by decree issued by the Coun c il of M in i s te r s. P r e f e r e n t i al t r e a tm e nt B is g r an t ed by an act of the E x e c u t i ve Comm i t t ee of the Cen t ral A f r i c an Cu s toms and E conom ic U n i on u p on the r e c omm e n d a t i on of the C o u n c il of M i n i s t e r s. P r e f e r e n t i al t r e a tm e nt C requ i res l e g i s l a t i o n. Gold By v i r t ue of Decree No. 66 /236 of Ju ly 29, 1966, as am end ed by Decree No. 66 /265, of Augu st 29, 1966, residents are f ree to hold in Congo gold in the form of coins, a rt ob jec ts, or j ew e l r y, but they r e q u i re the pr ior a u t h o r i z a t i on of the M i n i s t er of F i n a n ce and the Budget to ho ld gold in any o ther f o rm or to im p o rt or expo rt gold in any f o rm f r om or to any o ther c o u n t r y. Exempt f rom the l a t t er r e q u i r em e nt a re (1) impo r ts and exports by or on b eh a lf of the T reasu ry or the BCEAEC and (2) impo r ts and expo r ts of m a n u f a c t u r ed articles con- t a i n i ng a m i n or q u a n t i ty of gold (such as go ld-f i l led or gold-plated a r t ic le s ). Bo th l icensed and exempt impo r ts of gold are sub ject to cus toms d e c l a r a t ion. The agency SOGAREM has a monopo ly over the export of new ly m ined gold. Changes during 1972 January 1. Commissions payable to the Treasury were levied on t ran s fe rs to fo re ign countries and on credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs. They ranged from 0.10 per cent to 0.60 per cent, subject to a m in imum of CFAF 100. June 14. The import monopoly of OFNACOM for a few basic products was extended indefinitely by Order No. 2619. In addition, salt, dried fish, milk, and enamelware were added to the import monopoly. August 7. Order No. 3656 increased the exchange allowance for tourist travel to fore ign countries f rom the equivalent of CFAF 150,000 a person a trip, for any numb er of trips a year, to CFAF 175,000 a person a tr ip (CFAF 87,500 for children under t e n ), and the amount of foreign banknotes which nonresi- PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO dents could take out f r e e ly f rom CFAF 25,000 to CFAF 175,000. The t ravel allocations hence fo r th could be t ak en up also in the fo rm of travelers checks d enom in a t ed in French f rancs. August 7. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, C ircu lar No. 052 shifted a number of c u r r e nt transac t ions f rom the financial f ranc ma rket to the o f f ic ial exchange m a r k e t. The pr inc ipal cu r r ent paymen ts and receipts that continued to be channeled through the financial f ranc market were travel expenses, capital earn ings, and workers' remit- tances. Transactions in French and foreign banknotes also took place in the financial f r anc market. August 30. Econom ic coopera t ion w i th Za ire was resumed. September 22. It was announced that outward trans- fers of prof i ts would be more strictly supervised. September 22. Congo announced its withdrawal from the Common Organ iza t ion of African, Malagasy and Mau r i t ian States. November 18. Decree No. 72 /374 revoked certain provisions of Decree No. 67 /150 of June 30, 1967 and extended exchange control to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (which previously were not def ined as fo re ign coun t r ies ). Financial relations w i th other countries continued to be governed by the provisions of Decree No. 69 /35 of Janua ry 30, 1969. The new Decree defined foreign countries as all coun- tries outside the People's Republic of the Congo. Defi- n i t ions of residents, nonresidents, and investments also were prov ided. Exchange transactions, capital move- ments, and settlements of all types between Congo on one hand and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries on the other became subject to declaration and could be effected only through the in termed iary of authorized banks or the Postal Admin- istration. The export by travelers of BCEAEC bank- notes would be limited to a ceiling to be fixed by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. (Previously, their export to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries was unrestricted.) Provided they were declared, t rans fe rs of f u n ds to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries would remain unre- stricted, but they would be subject to a commission, the rate of which would be fixed by the Minister. All transactions giving rise to a claim on France, Monaco, or an Operations Account country also had to be declared. Residents were obliged to repatriate all claims on foreign countries, including export proceeds and investment income. All Congolese investments in foreign countries, as well as the ir f u ll or partial liquidation, required prior authorization by the Minister, and each act of invest- ment or disinvestment had to be reported to the Minis- ter within 20 days of the date on which it took place. Investments in Congo by nonresidents required prior 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO authorization by the Minister, unless the investment involved the creation of a mixed economy enterprise, in which case only a report ex post was needed. The fu ll or partial liquidation of foreign investments in Congo became subject to declaration to the Minister, and each act of investment or disinvestment in Congo to a report ex post. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents required prior authorization by the Minister, with the following exceptions: ( 1) loans constituting an investment in Congo for which approval had been obtained; (2) bor- rowing by banks registered in accordance with Law No. 24 /63; and ( 3) any other borrowings contracted by physical or ju r id ical persons, provided that the outstanding amount of such loans did not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower. Loans exempt f rom authorization, as well as all repayments the reo f, had to be declared within 20 days of the act. Lending by residents to nonresidents also required the prior approval of the Minister, with the following exceptions: ( 1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount of such loans did not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion' for any one lender. Loans exempt from authorization, as well as all repayments thereof, had to be declared within 20 days of the act. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of fo re ign securities in Congo required the prior authori- zation of the Minister, unless they involved borrowing guaranteed by the Congolese Government or related to securities whose issuing, etc. had previously been authorized. The collection of data for the compilation of the balance of payments was entrusted to the Office of External Financial Relations, acting in collaboration with the BCEAEC. November 28. Order No. 5452 provided that all transfers of funds received f rom or made to France, Monaco, or Operations Account countries had to be declared to the Office of External Financial Relations. Residents traveling to any of these countries could take out any amount in checks, travelers checks, and letters of credit, but not more than CFAF 25,000 in BCEAEC banknotes or French bankno tes (CFAF 12,500 a child und er t e n ). A commission of 1 per cent, for the benefit of the Office of External Financial Relations, was levied on all t rans fe rs to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, t rans fe rs being defined so as to include the purchase of banknotes, checks, travelers checks, and letters of credit; exempt from this commis- sion were the salaries of Congolese diplomats serving abroad, the scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, the expenditures of missions abroad, and all fore ign payments of the State. Residents engaging in transactions giving rise to a claim on France, Monaco, or an Operations Account country had to declare the claim to the Office of Exter- nal F inanc ial Relations. Claims on all foreign countries had to be repatriated w i th in one month of collection. Borrowing abroad became exempt from prior author- ization provided that the interest date did not exceed 5 per cent a year and the maturity was two years or less. December 4. Circular No. 090 established that the 1 per cent transfer commission had to be collected by the authorized banks and the Postal Administration whenever they made a foreign payment for their own account or for the account of their customers. The m in imum amount to be levied was CFAF 100. (A number of additional exemptions from this commission were granted by Order No. 0866 of February 28, 1973. They included exemptions for all transfers of the Postal Administration and the Central Bank.) The commission on transfers to foreign countries other than France, Monaco,, and the Operations Account countries remained unchanged a 0.60 per cent (0.10 per cent for payments in respect of im- ports of hydrocarbons.) 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System* The par va lue is 0.134139 gram of fine gold per Costa Rican Colon. No transactions take place at the par value.1 There is a dual exchange market. The Central Bank buys and sells exchange in the official market at fixed rates of 0 6.62 and 0 6.65, respectively, per US$1. The off ic ial ma rket rates apply to most export proceeds, listed imports classified as essential, receipts f rom and paymen ts for specified invisibles, capital receipts and debt service payments of the pub- lic sector, and registered pr iva te capital inflows and their service payments. Official transactions with CACM countries, when settled th rough the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana (a clearinghouse estab- lished by the cen tral banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries) are effected at a un i fo rm buy ing and selling rate of 06 .625 per US$1. Two mixing rates of 07 .5975 and 07.5950 per US$1 apply to nontradi- tional indu s t r ial exports to the CACM and to the rest of the wor ld, respectively; 50 per cent of such exports is sold in the o f f ic ial ma rket and 50 per cent in the free marke t. All other sales and purchases may be made f r e e ly in a free market in which the exchange rates <also are fixed; the buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. do l lar were 0 8.57 and 0 8.60, respectively, on December 31, 1972. Further m ix ing rates may arise f rom the fact that transfers at the official rate of interest and dividends on registered capital may be l im i ted to a certain per- centage of the registered am o u n t, while amoun ts in excess of that percen tage can be t ran s fe r red through the f ree marke t. Costa Rica fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom Feb rua ry 1, 1965. Administration of Control The exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica. Purchases and sales of official ma rket exchange are made th rough the Cen t ral Bank or th rough commercial banks ac t ing as its agents. The free exchange m a rk et is conduc ted by commer- cial banks, ac t ing as agen ts of the Cen t ral Bank, and licensed exchange houses. Comme rc ial banks deal in this m a r k et o n ly as agents of the C en t r al Bank, for its account and at its r isk. O ther res iden ts do not * Fo l low ing the a n n o u n c em e nt on F e b r u a ry 12, 1973 t h at the U. S. do l lar was b e i ng d e v a l u e d, Costa R ica on F e b r u a ry 16 dec ided to m a i n t a in the e x i s t i ng b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U. S. do l lar u n c h a n g ed in bo th e x c h a n ge m a r k e t s. W i th e f f e ct f r om M a r ch 2 0, 1973, the o f f i c i al b u y i ng ra tes we re changed f rom 0 8.57 to J? 8.54 per US$1 and f r om 0 6.65 to £ 6.68 per US$1. 1 On May 8, 1972, Costa R i ca a n n o u n c ed a new par v a l ue of 0.123549 g r am of f ine go ld. Th is par v a l ue was not ag reed w i th the I n t e r n a t i o n al M o n e t a ry F u n d. require a license from the Central Bank to effect transactions in the free market. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U. S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made through special U. S. dollar accounts established under a payments agreement with that country. Payments to El Salvador, Guatemala, Hon- duras, and N icaragua in respect of trade and trade- related invisibles, if eligible for the official rate, may be made in Costa Rica colones through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana; the documents must be expressed in colones and require approval by the Central Bank. The central banks of these four countries may also convert Costa Rican notes and coins, up to the equ iva lent of US$10,000 a month for Nicaragua and up to the equivalent of US$5,000 a mon th for each of the other countries. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade and invisibles may also be made in Costa Rican colones through the clearing- house, in accordance with the Agreement on Clearing and Reciprocal Credits between the Bank of Mexico and the member banks of the clearinghouse; the docu- men ts mu st be expressed in colones and require the pr ior approval of the Central Bank. There are no spe- cial arrangements w i th Mexico for the conversion of Costa R ican notes and coins. Imports and Import Payments There is no impo rt licensing and all import pay- ments may be made f ree ly. However, certain imports f rom CACM coun tr ies require prior authorization, and impo r ts made on a bar ter basis requ ire a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Indus- try and Commerce. Impor ts f rom South Africa are prohibited. Exchange at the off ic ial rate is granted for the c . i . f. value of specified essential imports, regardless of origin; for all impo r ts registered at the Central Bank for the purchase of official exchange before Octo- ber 23, 1972 ( in c lud ing goods of Central American o r i g i n ); for goods impor ted pr ior to June 19, 1971; for comm i tmen ts unde r taken prior to June 19, 1971 w i th bona f ide f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns abroad; and for paymen ts of letters of credit issued prior to June 19, 1971 for goods not sh ipped by th at date. All other impo r ts pass th rough the free marke t. To be e l ig ib le for fo re ign exchange f rom the official ma rke t, im p o r ts mu st be registered w i th the Central B ank w i t h in 60 days of arr ival at a na t ional port. This registration serves as an app l ica t ion for official exchange. In p r inc ip le, the Cen t ral Bank gran ts au thor- iza t ion to purchase foreign exchange at the time of 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA in registration; delays may occur, however, except respect of impor ts from CACM countries. In addition to any applicable customs du ty, there are levied on imports ( 1) a stamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs du ty on commodities not covered by the common ex ternal ta r i ff of the Central American Common Market; (2) a sales tax of 5 per cent ad valorem, f rom which cer ta in essential items are exempt; and (3) a selective consump t ion tax w i th a range of 10-50 per cent ad valorem on imports from outside the CACM and at lower rates on CACM imports. There also exists a small consu lar tax on cer- tain imports. Fu r the rmo re, most imports or ig ina t ing outside the Central Amer ican Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made free ly through the free marke t. Exchange at the o f f ic ial rate is only granted for fre ight and insu rance on imports effected at the official rate; for d iv idends and interest on regis- tered fore ign capital; indispensable paymen ts of the Central Gove rnmen t; no rm al expenses in fore ign currency on export transactions settled through the official marke t; student remittances; royalties; and insur- ance and reinsurance premiums, provided a commit- ment is given that any receipts f rom indemn i t ies will be sold in the official market. Allocations of exchange at the official rate for interest and dividends are in prin- ciple made on the basis of 10 per cent of the registered capital, while the balance may be settled through the free market; in practice, allocations are granted on the merits of the case. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a travel tax of 5 per cent of the value of the tickets plus 0 20 a tr ip; government officials, diplomats, minors, and stu- dents are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered in the official exchange market. Only in the case of certain non- traditional industrial exports may exporters surrender 50 per cent of the proceeds by sale in the free market.2 Licenses f rom the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In addition to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as armaments, mun i t ions, scrap iron, and scraps of non- ferrous base metals ( f rom the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce); sugar ( f rom the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, so that shipments under the sugar quotas may be con tro l led); lumber and root of ipecacuanha 2 With effect f rom Apr il 17, 1973 this facility was extended to non- traditional exports of agricultural, livestock, and fishing products. 130 ( f r om the Ins t i tu te for Lands and Colonization); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and pure- bred and other cattle ( f r om the Na t ional Council of P roduc t ion ); airplanes ( f rom the Civil Aviation B o a r d ); Ind ian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay ( f r om the Na t ional M u s e um ); tobacco ( f rom the Tobacco Defense B o a r d ); certain livestock and animals and p lan ts of forest origin ( f rom the Ministry of Agri- cu l ture and L ives tock ); and coffee, which requires a sales contract approved by the Coffee Office, in order to control exports under the coffee quotas; in addi- tion, when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Cen tral Bank gran ts an export license. Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered within 60 days of exportation or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have con- tracts w i th the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, which are calculated by deduc t ing f rom their gross export proceeds ( 1) p ro f i ts ob ta ined dur ing the year f rom their transactions in Costa Rica; (2) the allowance for depreciation on their investment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U. S. In ternal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in for- eign currency; and (4) the cost of impor ts made dur- ing the year that were necessary for the ir no rmal busi- ness in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on bananas, sugar, and coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered at the official rate w i th in 60 days of accrual, with the exception of the fo l low ing, wh ich may be retained or sold in the f ree m a rk e t: diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses; tourist expenditures; fam i ly remit- tances and other personal rem i t tances; settlements on insurance claims, provided that the p rem ium was paid through the free market; and commissions received by agents of foreign firms. Capital Inward and ou twa rd t rans fe rs of capital may be made freely through the free ma rket by residents and nonresi- dents. The Charter of the Central Bank provides that foreign capital en te r ing through the official market may be registered w i th the Central Bank in order to be ensured access to that market for the t rans fer of inter- est, profits, and amortization. Private capital outflows may be effected through the official market only if so registered. Incom ing capital may be sold freely in the free ma rket if it is fore ign capital th at did not elect registration and surrender at the official rate or if it is na t ional capital re turn ing from abroad. The only out- ward t rans fe rs of capital permitted to be made at the official rate are repayments on certain private and public ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution debts and ce r ta in amo r t iza t ion on registered fo re ign cap i ta l. Gold * Only the Central Bank is permitted to purchase or sell gold. Any physical or j u r i d i c al person who has or acquires gold coins or gold bars must sell these to the Central Bank w i t h in 60 days f rom the da te on wh ich they became his p rope r ty; small amoun ts in coin col- lections, jewe lry, or f am i ly keepsakes are exempt. Impor ts and exports of gold are made on ly by the Cen- tral Bank. The Cen t ral Bank does not supp ly gold to ar t is t ic or profess ional users. Changes during 1972 February 1. The 15 per cent and 30 per cent ex- change surcharges in the official market were elimi- nated; they had been applied to paymen ts for two groups of semiessential imports (Lists B and C) and had resulted in effec t ive selling rates of 0 7.65 and 0 8.65 per US$1. Foreign exchange at the official rate con- tinued to be provided for imports covered by the CACM's General Treaty of Economic Integration or by the t r ipa r t i te Free Trade Agreement between Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Panama, but imports f rom the rest of the world hencefor th had to be financed at the free market rate (08 .60 per US$1) unless the com- modities were included in a new List of Essential Im- port Goods. Capital goods, however, could be imported at the official rate if financing was obtained f rom previously approved fore ign financial institutions, and provided the amount outstanding af ter a downpayment of 20 per cent or less was made would be repaid in five equal installments over at least five years. March 10. Taxes of 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, were introduced on remittances abroad of dividends and interest; certain borrowing abroad (e.g., from government banks) was exempt. March 12. A selective consumption tax of 10 per cent to 50 per cent (10, 15, 20, 30, 40, or 50 per cen t) ad valorem on the c . i .f. va lue was levied on the value of goods imported from outside the CACM (and Pan- am a ). The same tax was applied at reduced rates to goods manu fac tu red within the CACM (or in Pan- ama ). The sales tax was unified at a rate of 5 per cent. May 6. Quotas were imposed on imports of tex- tiles f rom Guatemala and El Salvador. They were removed on October 23. 3 With effect from May 24, 1973, the Charter of the Central Bank was amended by the modification of Articles 93, 96, and 102, and the elimination of Article 94. The new Article 102 provided that private physical or juridical persons could sell domestically produced gold (except national archaeological treasures) at home or abroad, pro- vided there was no infraction of international agreements. Sales abroad would be subject to such conditions as the Cen tral Bank might establish. (Law No. 5199 of May 17, 1973.) COSTA RICA May 8. It was announced that the par va lue of the colon had been changed f rom 0.134139 to 0.123549 gram of fine gold. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. d o l l ar were m a i n t a i n ed unchanged in both ex- change ma rke ts. The new par va lue had not been agreed w i th the In te rna t ional Mone ta ry Fund. May 8. Ce r ta in expenses for the p romo t ion of n o n- t rad i t ional expor ts to the CACM coun tr ies and Pan- ama became e l ig ib le for fo re ign exchange at the o f f ic ial rate. June 16. The period expired du r ing wh ich it had been agreed that Costa Rica would make paymen ts au toma t ica l ly th rough the c lear ing mechanism of the Camara de Compensacion Cen troamer icana. The Cen- tral Bank of Costa Rica on October 23 again authorized payments for imports f rom the rest of Cen tral Ame r ica to be made in this manne r. June 27. Decree No. 2377-T-H increased the stamp tax on t icke ts for air t ravel abroad f rom 0 5 to 0 20. August 18. The Central Bank announced that ex- change at the official rate would be granted, in chrono- logical order, for goods included in the List of Essential Import Goods of February 1, when or ig ina t ing outside the CACM and Panama and a lready paid for through the free market. September 1. Imports f rom CACM countries ceased to be eligible for foreign exchange at the official rate unless they were included in the List of Essential Im- port Goods of February 1 to imports f rom the rest of the world. With respect to goods of Panamanian origin, it was announced that those covered by the Free Trade Agreement between Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Pan- ama were eligible for the official marke t; the Central Bank of Costa Rica could refuse access to the official market for Panamanian goods classified as subject to the free market rate when there was no local produc- tion of these or similar goods. October 23. The List of Essential Import Goods was expanded to include raw materials for the production of insecticides, fungicides, and disinfectants; pharma- ceuticals; chemical fertilizers; seeds; agricultural tools; and spare parts for buses, trucks, agricultural, indus- trial, and construction machinery. A restricted list of imports was introduced, applica- ble to all countries, for which payments would be made at the official market rate of 0 6.65 per US$1. Exports to CACM countries of these goods, and of goods manu- factured from raw materials eligible for the official ex- change rate, would be settled at 06 .625 per US$1. Payments for goods not included in the restricted list, irrespective of origin, were henceforth made at 0 8.60 per US$1. October 23. All payments for imports f rom the CACM and Panama registered prior to October 23, 1972 could be discharged at the official rate. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA October 23. Fifty per cent of the proceeds from nontraditional industrial exports could be converted at the free market rate (08.57 per US$1). The remain- ing 50 per cent had to be surrendered at the official rate (06.625 per US$1 for exports to the CACM and 06.62 per US$1 for exports outside the CACM). The resulting mixing rates were 0 7.5975 and 0 7.595 per US$1, respectively. Export proceeds from products included in the List of Essential Import Goods as well as from goods pro- duced with raw materials contained in that list had to be surrendered at the official rate. Exporters affected by this stipulation were entitled to obtain foreign ex- change at the official rate for all of their imports, 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Exchange Rate System * The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound, which corresponds to £C 0.416667 = SDR 1 or <£C 0.383772 = US$1. The Central Bank quotes daily buying and selling rates for pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. The rate for the U. S. dollar on December 30, 1972 was US$2.6100 buying, and US$2.6070 selling, per <£C 1, and that for sterling was «£ stg. 1.1120 buy ing, and <£ stg. 1.1090 selling, per <£C 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank of Cyprus and trade controls by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank has been delegated to the authorized banks. Au thor i ty to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Ma rke t ing Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Prescription of Currency Cyprus has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements with clearing countries x must be made through the appropriate clearing account denominated in pounds sterling. Paymen ts to countries other than the clearing countries (except Rhodesia) may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an Exter- nal Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in Cyprus pounds f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus other than Rhodesia may ma in ta in with authorized banks non- resident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated Exter- nal Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments f rom residents of Cyprus, with transfers f rom * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Cyp rus decided to maintain the par value of its currency in terms of gold. The effective par i ty relationship for the U. S. dollar became £C 0.345395 = US$1. New buying and sell- ing rates for the U. S. dollar of US$2.8360 and US$2.8390, respec- tively, per £C 1 were announced by the Central Bank on Febru- ary 16, 1973. 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Romania, and U. S. S. R. other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales by nonresidents of any foreign currency 2 other than Rhodesian currency. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for pur- chases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rho- desia and are subject to separate rules. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital na ture which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked f u n ds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or credited to an Exter- nal Account w i thout prior reference to the Central Bank, but cannot be credited to the Blocked Account. Funds can be released f rom Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances: On application by the author- ized bank concerned acting on behalf of the nonresident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked funds for ( 1) reasonable educational expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children; (2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and ( 3) donations to char- itable institutions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), amounts up to a level deter- mined f rom time to time may become eligible for release. At present, the Central Bank is prepared to perm it the release to each nonresident holder of blocked funds of up to <£C 1,000, as well as a fur ther amount of up to «£C 5,000 in any calendar year, provided that the amount applied for in respect of the latter release represents the proceeds of redemption or sale of securi- ties that were held for account of the nonresident bene- ficiary for a continuous period of at least four years.3 Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of v i r tua l ly all commodities may be made freely f rom any other coun try except Albania, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, No r th Korea, Poland, Romania, Tibet, the U. S. S. R., and No r th Viet-Nam. For pro- tective reasons, certain goods (such as some agricul- tu ral and textile products, foo twear, metal manufac tures, and industrial mach inery) may not be imported freely; for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than Cyp rus pounds. 3 For any amounts blocked before December 1, 1969, the period f rom the date the f u n ds were blocked up to November 30, 1969 will count against the fou r -year period, provided that the f u n ds involved were invested in such securities before December 31, 1970. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, Poland, Romania, and the U. S. S. R. are licensed in accordance with the terms of bilateral trade and pay- ments agreements. With respect to Albania, mainland China, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Tibet, and North Viet- Nam, no formal trad ing arrangements exist but certain barter transactions take place f rom time to time. Ind iv idual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited g i f ts up to <£C 10 in va lue (not to be so ld ), for returned goods, or for certain special import transactions. Payments for all perm i t ted impor ts may be made free ly, but the au thor ized dealers' au tho r i ty to effect payment w i thout reference to the Central Bank is for advance payments in respect of impor ts limited to the equivalent of <£C 100. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest f rom approved foreign invest- ments may be t rans fe r red abroad, a f ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurance companies are remittable a f ter deduc- tion of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Maintenance remittances are allowed on applica- tion accompanied by documen tary evidence of hard- ship. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed, only for the purpose of preventing illicit capi- tal outflow. For study abroad, the lower limit is £C 700 a year, and the upper limit is <£C 2,200 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of living in the country concerned —e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East (defined as Egypt, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, and T u r k e y ), <£C 700; in the United States and Canada, <£C 2,200; in other countries, <£C 1,400. Higher amoun ts for student allowances may be granted on presentation of documentary evidence. For tourist travel, the limit is £C 350 a person annua l ly; for business travel <£C 20 to <£C 40 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Resi- dent travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to <£C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of <£C 50. Nonresident travelers may take out <£C 10 in Cyprus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley to control by the Cyprus Grain Commis- sion. All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds <£C 75 to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Export proceeds in all currencies must be surrendered within one month of receipt. 134 Proceeds from invisibles Receipts f r om invisibles in all currencies must be sold to an au thor ized bank w i th in one mon th of receipt. Persons en te r ing Cyp rus may b r ing in any amount in fore ign cu r rency notes and Cyp rus cu r rency notes. Capital Exchange con trol is exercised over all capital receipts or paymen ts. Capital receipts must be offered for sale to an au thor ized b ank; paymen ts of a capital na tu re to any des t ina t ion requ ire prior approval. Foreign inves tmen ts in Cyprus by nonresidents require the pr ior app roval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies. In considering applications, due regard is given to the purpose of the inves tmen t, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of per- sons to be employed, the extent of the fore ign exchange liability which might arise f rom the investment, and possible competition w i th existing industries. Foreign investment involving participation in domestic indus- tries not exceeding 49 per cent of the share capital is normally approved; participation above this limit may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of approved fore ign investments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside Cyprus, and Cypriots who emigrate, may trans- fer abroad up to £C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With th is exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1972 June 23. Cyprus ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 23. Authorized banks were instructed to sus- pend all exchange transactions involving capital trans- fers. Such transactions were resumed on July 7 (subject to new exchange control regulations, see below). June 29. The par value in terms of gold was main- tained and the Cyprus pound was unpegged from ster- ling, with which it had been at par. As a result, the currency began to appreciate in terms of sterling. June 30. The House of Representatives enacted an amendment to the Exchange Control Act empowering ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS the Council of Ministers to make transactions with Sterling Area countries subject to exchange control ap- proval and to treat sterling as a fore ign cu r rency. By decision of the Council, these powers were invoked on Ju ly 6, when the Exchange Control (Amendmen t) Law, 1972 and the Exchange Control ( t he Repub l ic) Order, 1972 were pub l ished in the Off ic ial Gazette. July 5. The Central Bank began quo t ing da i ly buy ing and selling rates for sterling and resumed quotations for the U. S. dollar. July 14. Exchange control was extended to cover t ransac t ions w i th Sterling Area countries. The Cyprus pound accounts of residents of the Sterling Area not resident in Cyprus were designated External Accounts. Regulations for remittances of fore ign exchange to the Sterling Area countries were made identical to those already applicable to all other foreign countries. Ex- ports to Sterling Area countries were made subject to the fore ign exchange proceeds subject licensing and to su r rende r. August 11. Imports of wood and articles of wood, paper and paperboard, carpets, tubes, and pipe f i t t ings were made subject to licensing, September 26. The exchange allocations for study abroad were increased f rom <£C 500-1,700 a year to <£C 700-2,200 a year. November 1. The max imum exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from < £C 2 50 to <£C 350 a person a year, and the m in imum allocation for busi- ness travel f rom <£C 10 to £C 20 a day. December 19. An agreement of association was signed w i th the EEC. Association would take place in two stages. The agreement did not come into effect du r ing 1972. December 31. The Commonwealth ta r i ff preferences granted to the United Kingdom expired. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Exchange System * No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official ex- change market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other current payments, as well as all current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. All other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and bank- notes issued by the BCEAO, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. The principal current payments and receipts channeled through the financial franc market are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remit- tances. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 - US$1. With the exception of those relating to gold, Dahomey's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Cen tral A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Dahomey itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle finan- cial relations only w i th foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For purposes of certain capital con- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was ma in ta ined and the e f f e c t ive pa r i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dollar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. The ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was also maintained on March 19, 1973 when new exchange rate arrangements between the French f r a nc and certain other currencies came into effec t. *The CFA f r anc is issued by the Banque Cen tra le des E ta ts de 1'Afr ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 136 trols, however, the countries specified in this paragraph are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate- General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Economy and Planning, which also supervises borrow- ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey, inward direct invest- ment, all investment in foreign countries, and the solici- tation of funds in Dahomey for placement in foreign countries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Eco- nomic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Economy and Plan- ning, except those for gold, which are granted by the Minister of Economy and P lann ing personally. Exports of diamonds require the prior approval of the Director- ate of Mines. There are three special offices for the import and export of precious metals and precious mineral materials. Import certificates for liberalized commodities originating in OECD countries other than Japan are made out by the importer himself and approved by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency Dahomey is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments w i th France ( inc lud ing its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made through cor- respondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or Financial Accounts in Francs.2 All settlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bankno tes, French bank- notes, or bankno tes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the 2 There are inopera t ive payments agreements with Eastern Ger- many, Egyp t, and Hungary. The agreement with Eastern Germany has never been ratified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents for credit to the accounts opened for the latter by authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. Certain im- ports, such as narcotics, are prohibited f rom all sources. The Societe de Commercialisation et de Credit Agricole du Dahomey (SOCAD) has a monopoly over the im- portation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, and con- densed milk. Imports of all other goods originating in countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely without an import license. Imports of all other goods originating in EEC countries other than France may also be made free ly; these goods require a license, which is issued automatically. Certain imports are liberalized when originating in OECD countries other than Japan and only require an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities originating in OECD countries, all imports originating in Japan, and all imports originating in non-OECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import pro- gram, which is determined each year in a French- Dahomean Committee, in which both countries have equal status, as provided for by the Economic Co- operation Agreement w i th France. Under this program, a global quota is established for imports from all coun- tries outside the French Franc Area except EEC coun- tries. Certain French textiles processed in foreign coun- tries are licensed separately. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documentary credit is opened or one month before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted free ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Economic A f fa i rs, but for many types of invisibles the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. Au thor ized banks and the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion have been empowered to make t rans fe rs abroad free ly on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not re- DAHOMEY quire authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after re- turn to Dahomey must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Dahomey is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a mem- ber of the West African Monetary Union they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresident travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by Operations Account countries; the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (travelers checks, etc.) established abroad in their names. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports to all foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more. Exports to all countries are free of license, except those of gold and diamonds, but require an export application visaed by the Directorate- General of Economic A f fa i rs. Exports of gold require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance person- ally, and those of diamonds must be authorized by the Directorate of Mines. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or another Opera- tions Account country must no rma l ly be collected w i th in 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination and surrendered by sale on the official exchange market within two months of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY the French Franc Area may be re ta ined. All amounts due f rom residents of other coun t r ies in respect of services, and all income earned in those coun tr ies f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resi- dent and nonres ident travelers may b r ing in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fore ign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of countries ou ts ide the French Franc Area; resident travelers must w i th in eight days surren- der any fore ign bankno tes and fore ign currency travel- ers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 they br ing in. Capital Transfers of capital between Dahomey and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Capital movements between Dahomey and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct invest- ment and all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscrib- ing to real estate bu i ld ing operations abroad; these spe- cial controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Dahomey require prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Planning.3 Foreign direct investments in Dahomey 4 must be declared to the Minister of Econ- omy and Planning before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the decla- ration during which he may request the postponement 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Dahomey and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Dahomey. 4 Including those made by companies in Dahomey that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Dahomey of foreign companies. 138 of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Dahomean investments abroad or foreign investments in Dahomey, must be reported to the M in is ter of Economy and P lann ing w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct invest- ments are def ined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, adver t is ing, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Dahomey requ ires prior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Economy and P lann ing. Exempt f rom au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connec- tion w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Dahomean Governmen t, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Dahomey has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Economy and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, wh ich are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by in terna t ional merchant- ing firms (approved by the Minister of Economy and Planning) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports or exports; ( 3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain condi- tions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not con- stituting a direct investment requires the special authori- zation of the M in is ter if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Planning. The lending of CFA francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years, however, is freely permitted, subject to ex post reporting to the Directorate-General of Economic A f fa i rs and to the BCEAO. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of Jan- uary 8, 1972) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in indus- try, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, dur ing a period of up to 5 years, from import duties and taxes on materials nec- essary for the production of the proposed product, and from certain other taxation. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maximum period of 8 years and pro- vides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other tax privileges. Plan C is in tended for large enter- prises and is gran ted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the benef i ts of P lan B, P lan C guaran tees stability of tax s ta tus, free choice of suppliers, and cer- tain other advantages. Plan D provides cer ta in benefits for Dahomean en t rep reneu rs. The method of app l ica t ion of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of January 17, 1972. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any f o rm in Dahomey. Impo r ts and expor ts of gold f rom or to any o ther coun t ry requ i re pr ior authori- zation by the M in i s ter of Economy and P lann ing, which is seldom gran ted. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) impor ts and exports of manu fac tu red articles con t a in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic le s ); and (3) imports and exports by trave lers of gold articles up to a max imum weight to be de term ined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1972 January 8. Ordinance No. 72-1, containing a new Investment Code, came into force. The new Code replaced that of December 31, 1961 (Law No. 61-53), which was revoked. Law No. 60-18 of July 13, 1960 also was revoked. January 17. Decree No. 72-7 was issued, which established the method of application of the new Investment Code. January 18. Circular No. 5 revoked Circular No. 86 of December 8, 1971, which had provided that, with certain exceptions, Foreign Accounts in Francs and Financial Accounts in Francs could only be debited for payments in francs to residents and no longer for pur- chases of foreign exchange. January 18. The limits imposed on August 19, 1971 by Letter No. 1330 of the Minister of Economy and Planning on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign coun- tries were revoked by the Minister's Letter No. 4. June 6. Dahomey advised the GATT that it had ceased to invoke the provisions of Article XXXV of the GATT with respect to Japan. June 21. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, Order No. 28 shifted a number of current transactions from the financial franc market DAHOMEY to the official exchange ma rke t. The pr inc ipal current paymen ts and receipts that continued to be channeled th rough the financial f r anc market were travel expenses, cap i tal earnings, and workers' remittances. June 21. Order No. 27 increased the exchange allo- cation for tou r ist travel to fore ign countries f rom the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a person a tr ip, for two trips a year, to CFAF 175,000 a person a tr ip, for any number of trips a year; for children under ten, this allocation was increased from CFAF 37,500 to CFAF 87,500 a t r ip. The m ax imum allocation for busi- ness travel was increased f rom CFAF 200,000 to CFAF 400,000 a trip. The tourist allocation hence fo r th could also be taken up in the fo rm of travelers checks denominated in French francs. Nonresident travelers were allowed to take out freely ( 1) the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bankno tes issued by Operations Account countries; (2) the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes; and (3) any amount in other foreign means of payment established abroad in their names (travelers checks, etc .). June 21. Circular No. 66 increased the amount below which exports to foreign countries were exempt from domiciliation from CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 500,000. June 21. Circular No. 67 increased the amount up to which imports f rom foreign countries were exempt from domiciliation from CFAF 20,000 to CFAF 500,000. The moment at which foreign exchange could be purchased for goods already imported was advanced from eight days to one month before the due date of the payment. A similar relaxation was applied to advance payments for imports. June 21. Circular No. 68 informed the authorized banks and the Postal Administration that transfers on behalf of residents to foreign countries up to the equiv- alent of CFAF 50,000 a transfer could be effected freely. June 21. Circular No. 69 provided that domestic and foreign securities accruing in Dahomey to a nonresi- dent by donation could henceforth be placed in a for- eign securities dossier. October 23. Ordinance No. 72-38 introduced a state monopoly for the importation of basic consumer goods. October 23. Decree No. 72-276 gave to SOCAD the monopoly of the importation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, and condensed milk. (Further details were given in Order No. 1046 of November 20.) December 29. A commercial and financial agree- ment was signed with mainland China. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System * Administration of Control DENMARK 1 The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Danish Krone. The central rate is DKr 6.98 = US$1, corresponding to DKr 7.57829 = SDR 1, and Denmark avails itself of wider margins. However, Denmark par- ticipates in the EEC arrangements for the narrowing of exchange rate margins and ma in ta ins margins of approxi- mately 21A per cent either side of the cross-parity for the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian l ira, the Luxembourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, and the Norwegian krone.2 The official limits for the U. S. dollar are approximately 21A per cent either side of the central rate, i.e., DKr 6.823 buying, and DKr 7.137 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to intervene; the rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates are quoted daily for the 16 currencies that are used most often.3 Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward for up to 12 mon ths w i th one another and with their foreign correspondents in all currencies, including Danish kroner (other than Danish kroner on East German accoun ts). Forward premiums and discounts are generally left to the interplay of market forces, but the central bank has f rom t ime to time sold U. S. dol- lars forward to authorized banks. Forward transactions with residents must cover contractual payments for goods and services or paymen ts on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years f rom the date of the forward contract. Pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (1968 ), restrictions for secur i ty reasons are applied to virtually all paymen ts and t rans fe rs to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia, and to certain receipts from Rhodesia. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Ar t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denma rk, G reen land, and the Faroe Islands; the latter has its own currency, however. * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, Denma rk ma in ta ined the va lue of the krone in terms of SDKs and changed its cen tral rate to DKr 6.28205 = US$1. With e f fect f rom F eb ru a ry 15, new upper and lower in te rven t ion ra tes for the U. S. do l lar were set at DKr 6.4230 and DKr 61410, respectively. With e f fect f rom March 19, 1973, the o f f ic ial l im i ts for the U. S. do l lar were suspended. 1 Jn view of ce r ta in changes that took place on J a n u a ry 1, 1973 (see note at the end of this s u r v e y ), this su rvey p resen ts the position on th at da te. 2 With e f fect f rom February 13, 1973, these a r r ang em en ts were sus- pended for the I t a l i an l i ra, but on March 19, 1973 they were ex- tended to inc lude the Swedish k rona. 3 A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian ( L u x em b o u r g) f r an c s, C a n a d i an do l la rs, deutsche m a r k, Finnish m a rkk a a, French f r an c s, Ice land ic k r o n u r, I ta l ian l i re, N e th e r l ands gu i lde rs, No rweg ian k rone r, Po r tuguese escu- dos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U. S. dollars. 140 Exchange control is administered by the Na t ional Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange con- trol authority. However, adm in is tra t ive powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Permission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. The only exceptions to this rule are that payments to Eastern Germany must be settled through inconvertible krone accounts and that virtually all payments in favor of residents of Rhodesia must be credited to a special account. Payments f rom Eastern Germany are normally settled through inconvertible krone accounts, but may also be settled otherwise. Nonresident Accounts 4 Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts, which play an insignificant part in foreign settlements, and East German accounts. Krone accounts may be opened by authorized banks for fore ign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies. They may also be opened for other nonresi- dents, inc lud ing persons who are or have been of Danish na t iona l i ty, provided that the credit balance in any one account does not exceed DKr 75,000 unless the amount concerned was held as of September 30, 1972 or stems from the subsequent liquidation of the account holder's capital investments in Denmark. Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by author- ized exchange dealers for holding capital, income from capital, pensions, and other f u n ds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person at the t ime of em ig ra t ion. Certain pay- men ts to residents may be made free ly from these accounts and the balances are in any case made con- ver t ib le one year af ter emigration. Capital accounts are also kept for residents of Rhodesia; balances in these accoun ts are inconvertible. Foreign Accounts are nonresident accounts with sav- ings banks and small cooperative banks. These accounts are kept ma in ly by private persons and for private purposes. The rules gove rn ing such accoun ts follow 4 The des igna t ions of the var ious types of nonresident account were changed in March 1973. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution broadly the same principles as those established for convertible krone accounts, except that transfers abroad may be made only through an authorized exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities are liberalized and free of licens- ing from all sources. The import licensing system is based on three negative commodity lists and three country lists.5 Commodities listed in Annex 1A to Execu- tive Order No. 489 issued by the Minister of Commerce on December 15, 1970 (as amended) require a license irrespective of country of purchase or origin. All com- modities require a license when purchased f rom or originating in countries or territories listed in Annex 2 III (mainland China, the Republic of China, Eastern Germany, North Korea, Mongolia, Rhodesia, and North Viet-Nam). Goods listed in Annex 1C require a license when purchased f rom or originating in countries of Annex 2 II (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U. S. S. R .6) or Annex 2 III (see above). Goods specified in Annex IB require a license when purchased from or or ig ina t ing in countries of Annex 2 I (Japan and the Republic of Korea) or Annexes 2 II and 2 III (see above). With these exceptions, imports are free of license, provided that for the countries of Annexes 2 I and 2 II the country of origin and the country of purchase are identical. Imports or ig ina t ing or purchased in Rhodesia are not being licensed. Some of the goods in the three commodity lists are subject to global or b i la teral quotas, but most are being licensed automatically when origi- nating or purchased in countries of Annex 2 II. Only cut flowers are imported under licenses which apply to a specific country. Imports of bread grain, feed- grain, and certain grain products are subject to equal- ization charges representing the d ifference between specified m in imum import prices and the lowest prices payable for grain c.i.f. Danish ports. The t rans fer of f u n ds to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia is prohibited. With this exception, payments for imports and the related sh ipp ing expenses 7 may be made freely w i th in two years f rom the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through cus- toms, or w i th in five years for imports of ships, a i rc ra f t, large machines, and ma jor plants, provided that pay- ments of debts are not made more than 14 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the la test cu s tom a ry da te in the t r a d e ). However, com- mercial credits w i th the latest day of payment within 90 days f rom inward clearance can be paid at any time within that period if any savings are achieved as a result. The authorized exchange dealer may make pay- 5 With effect f rom Feb rua ry 1, 1973, the import licensing system was liberalized subs tan t ia l ly. 6 A lban ia was t r an s f e r r ed f rom Annex 2 III in 1972. 7 The ru les gove rn ing such paymen ts were eased with e f fect March 19, 1973. f rom DENMARK ment before clearance of the goods, provided that the probable date of clearance lies within two weeks from the date of payment. For ships, aircraft, heavy machin- ery, and major installations, advance payments cannot be made more than 14 days before the date stipulated as the latest permissible date in the contract, and not more th an one year before the expected inwa rd clearance of the goods (or the recording in a Danish ship regis- t e r ). Documentary credits for imports may be estab- lished up to 90 days (180 days for specified Far Eastern countries) before the expected date of inward clearance. All other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the National Bank; they are approved when the payment is genuine and in accordance with the traditions of the trade. Many commodities are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 4 per cent; the principal exemptions are for raw materials and foods tuffs .8 Payments for Invisibles 9 The National Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the authority to permit payments by residents, including foreign nationals temporarily work- ing in Denmark, for most invisibles to be made freely, provided that payments of debts are not made more than 14 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the t r a d e ); only in a few cases is approval from the Bank required. Authorized banks are empowered to allow the t rans fer up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Den- ma rk, prov ided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the t rans fer is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Transfers of up to DKr 2,000 for any permitted pur- pose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any coun try, but not earlier than two weeks before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 2,000. Foreign exchange in banknotes and coins may be purchased from agencies or individuals other than the authorized exchange deal- ers, provided that the amount does not exceed DKr 2,000 for each transaction. Payments of any kind to Rhodesia, except paymen ts for pensions, for strictly hum an i t a r i an, medical, or educational purposes, or for the purchase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely DKr 2,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in fore ign bank- notes or other means of payment. The DKr 2,000 limit may be exceeded by nonresidents, who may export any amount of Danish bankno tes and coins derived f rom sales of fore ign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. s The su rcha rge was abolished on Apr il 1, 1973. 9 W i th e f fect f rom March 19, 1973, the ru les gove rn ing paymen ts for inv is ib les were eased and the amount f r ee f r om control was increased f r om DKr 2,000 to DKr 3,000. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted, w i th the excep- tion of products intended for s tr ic t ly medical purposes, educational material or other equ ipment for schools and the like, publications, and news material. Expor ts to any c o u n t ry of m a jor ag r i cu l tu r al and fishery products require export licenses issued by the M in is try of Ag r icu l tu re or the M in is t ry of Fisheries.10 Exports of poultry, bacon, and cheese to the United Kingdom are licensed up to annual quotas and exports of pigs and pork to other EEC countries are subject to export levies.11 Exports of other agricultural products are permitted f ree ly to all countries except Rhodesia. Exports of all products to CMEA countries and speci- fied Far Eastern countries and exports of a few indus- trial products to all other countries require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the pr imary purposes of the regulations being to safeguard the fu l f i l lment of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to import- ing countries, and to serve strategic purposes. Export proceeds must be t rans fe r red to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise.12 However, this obligation does not apply to amoun ts which are to be used w i th in a short period to settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the Na t ional Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer w i thout undue delay, except that an individual resident may hold foreign banknotes and coins not exceeding DKr 2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank per- mits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above).12 Travelers may br ing in any amount of Danish bank- notes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital13 Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lending between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to exchange control and may be restricted. Licensing practice vis-a-vis residents of mem- ber countries of the EEC is based on the rules of the 10 With e f fect from February 1, 1973, the export licensing system was changed substantially. 11 The arrangemen ts agreed with the United K ingdom lapsed with effect f rom February 1, 1973 and the levies on pigs and pork exported to other EEC countries were terminated w i th effect f rom the same date. 12 The rules governing the repatriation of export proceeds and pro- ceeds f rom invisibles were eased with effect f rom March 19, 1973, and the limit of DKr 2,000 was increased to DKr 3,000. 13 With e f fect f rom March 19, 1973, the rules govern ing capital were amended; the scope of transactions permitted under open general licenses was widened. 142 EEC's directives on capital movements, subject to cer- tain trans i t ional arrangements, and licensing practice in respect of residents of the rest of the wo r ld (except Rhodesia) is based on Denmark's obligations as a mem- ber of the OECD. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized f rom the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by resi- dents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon ma tu r i ty, or to repurchase any Danish securities denominated exclusively in Danish kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denom ina t ion (provided these bonds are quo ted on an au thor ized stock exchange abroad), to lend amoun ts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subs id iary companies, branches, and so fo r th, or to a member of the resident's f am i ly, and to buy foreign securities that do not represent direct invest- ments in fore ign commercial or indu s t r ial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned or provided that the resident fu rn ishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount w i th in the last 12 mon ths f rom the sale of fore ign securities to a nonresident. The Na t ional Bank has granted a general permission to authorized exchange dealers to make transfers abroad, w i th in certain limits, for account of the ir resident customers in connection w i th direct investments or w i th the private acquisition of real estate abroad. The au tho r i ty is limited to DKr 40,000 14 a year for each foreign enterprise for direct inves tmen ts and to DKr 60,000 a person for private acquisition of real estate. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital na ture by residents. Direct invest- ments abroad by residents are normally approved in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EEC and the OECD, but po r t fo l io investment abroad is generally not allowed. The pr iva te acquisition of real estate in excess of DKr 60,000 norma l ly is approved only when the property is situated in a mem- ber country of the EEC. Loans and credits involving nonresidents and made in connection w i th commercial transactions are norma l ly perm i t ted, subject to certain limitations. The net "commercial" foreign position of authorized foreign exchange dealers is subject to limita- tion. For any ind iv idual bank, this position must not be negative, except in accordance with the following. For all banks collectively, a quota has been set (DKr 250 million for 1973) up to which they may incur a negative net "commercial" foreign position, inso far as this results from the tak ing up of foreign currency loans and credits for purposes of on-lending in foreign currency to cus- tomers in order to finance Danish foreign trade. The largest exchange dealers have been allocated subquotas, and for the others there is a residual subquota of DKr 50 m i l l ion. A positive net "commercial" foreign position is allowed as long as it does not exceed the 14 Increased to DKr 100,000 with effect f rom March 19, 1973. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution higher of the fo l low ing amounts: DKr 2 million or 15 per cent of the c ap i t al and reserves of the ind iv idu al bank concerned. Danish em ig ran ts are gran ted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person at the t ime of emigration. Funds exceeding these amoun ts must be credited to a Capital Account in the name of the owner and may in any case be t rans fe r red abroad one year af ter emigration. Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made w i thout any special license if the transac t ion concerns indu s t ry, commerce, hand ic ra f t s, the hotel busi- ness, or t ranspo r ta t ion, and if the inves tment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more t h an DKr 40,000 l f) in each ca lendar year. Other direct investment by nonres iden ts requ ires permission f rom the M in is t ry of Commerce, wh ich is granted l ibera l ly in accordance w i th Denmark's obliga- tions as a member of the EEC and the Organ iza t ion for Economic Cooperation and Development. The purchase by a non re s ident of real property in Denmark usua l ly requires a special license f rom the Ministry of Justice. Nonresidents may pu rchase or subscribe to bonds that are quo ted da i ly and are expressed solely in Danish kroner, when the f u n ds have been obtained f rom the liquidation of inves tmen ts in Denmark .16 Moreover, the sale to nonresidents ( inc lud ing persons who are or have been Danish na t iona ls) of Danish bonds expressed solely in Danish kroner and listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange is f ree ly permitted w i th in a periodically estab- lished quota, provided that sales are effected for the account of the Na t ional Bank of Denma rk; the quota for the first half of 1973 is DKr 125 million (cost price). Such bonds may be resold to residents and the proceeds of resale are transferab le or may be reinvested, w i th in a short period, by purchase of, or subscription to, Danish bonds. In addition, nonresidents may freely pur- chase or subscribe to shares that are quoted daily on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, provided the purchase does not represent a direct investment and is not being made w i th a view to subsequent direct investment in the company concerned; th is liberalization does not apply to cer t if ica tes of inves tment companies, etc., whose latest ba lance sheet shows more than 10 per cent of their assets placed in Danish bonds, debentures, and mortgage bonds. Nonresidents may grant credits within certain l im i ts to residents to finance purchases of com- modities abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports. They may, fu r the r, grant loans of up to DKr 5 million per borrower in a calendar year to finance the borrower's own enterprise in most industries, provided that the activity in question does not exclu- sively or essentially consist in financing, trading in real 15 Increased to DKr 100,000 with effect f rom March 19, 1973. 16 With e f fect f rom Feb rua ry 20, 1973, it was prohibited to reinvest in bonds the proceeds f rom the sale of Danish shares represen t ing portfolio inves tmen ts. With effect f rom March 19, however, certain other income and proceeds from capital could be invested in bonds. DENMARK estate, or c e r t a in b u i l d i ng and cons t ruc t ion activities, and provided th at the m a tu r i ty is at least five years. F ina l ly, they may g rant loans up to DKr 200,000 per borrower in a ca lendar year to membe rs of the nonresident's f am i ly. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a ru le issue deben tu re loans abroad w i thout special per- mission of the Na t ional Bank, but their fore ign borrow- ing is subject to control by the competent executive department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or l iqu ida t ion of all types of inves tmen ts and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated persons are permitted free ly, irre- spective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received f rom persons and firms who are nonres iden ts at the time of receipt may be paid free ly, w i th the proviso that loans and credits obtained f rom a nonresident must not be amortized or repaid in fu ll more than 14 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due, or before the customary date in the trade; commercial credits for which the latest permissible date of payment u n d er the con t ract lies w i t h in 90 days f rom inw a rd clearance may be repaid at any time within that period if it results in any savings.17 Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country w i thout l im i ta t ion. Individual payments above DKr 2,000 1S as gifts to persons other than relatives require approval from the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide g if ts. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regula- tions, the details of which are established by the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are nor- mally permitted also. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain excep- tions, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the Na t ional Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations are not circumvented. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins in Denmark. Residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to ac- quire gold abroad. Imports and expor ts of gold norma l ly require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for 17 The rules govern ing the repayment of loans, credits, and deposits were eased with e f fect f rom March 19, 1973. 18 Increased to DKr 3,000 with effect from March 19, 1973. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 15 per cent but not to customs duty. Domestic transac- tions also are taxed at a rate of 15 per cent. Changes during 1972 January 1. Generalized ta r i ff preferences on specified imports or ig ina t ing in most developing countries came into force. January 13. The 1972 "bond" quota for nonresi- dents' purchases of Danish kroner bonds was fixed at DKr 100 million, the same amount as in 1971. The pro- vision that sales by residents had to be effected for the account of the National Bank of Denmark and had to be spread evenly over the year continued to apply. January 13. New regulations concerning the execu- tion of forward exchange transactions were issued to take into account the possibility of considerable changes in exchange rates other than changes in parities ( for which similar regulations already ex is ted). The new rules would be applicable when between the date of the contract and the settlement date there were changes in excess of 4 per cent in the spot selling rates in Denmark for currencies involved in transactions in which foreign currency was traded against kroner, or changes in excess of 4 per cent in the cross-rates where one foreign currency was transacted against another. January 20. A Capital Ma rket Council was estab- lished. January 22. Membership negotiations w i th the EEC were completed. Among the special arrangemen ts agreed upon were the following. (1) For a period of two years af ter accession, Denmark could defer the f u ll liberaliza- tion of purchases by nonresidents of bonds denomi- nated in Danish kroner and dea lt in on the stock exchange in Denmark ( inc lud ing the physical t rans fer of the securities in question). (2) For a period of five years af ter accession, Denmark could defer the fu ll liberalization of purchases by residents of foreign secu- rities listed on stock exchanges abroad and of repur- chases f rom abroad of Danish listed bonds denominated exclusively or pa r t ly in foreign currency (including the physical transfer of the securities in question). (3) From the date of accession, Denmark would proceed to a progressive liberalization of the operations under (1) above. March 22. Supp lemen tary "bond quotas" were fixed for the period up to June 30 (DKr 40 m i l l ion) and for the th ird quarter of 1972 (DKr 35 m i l l ion ). May 1. The Na t ional Bank narrowed the exchange rate margins for the currenc ies of member countries of the EEC and the United K ingdom. On May 23 these a r rangemen ts were extended to the Norweg ian krone. On June 23 they were suspended in respect of sterling. On June 27 the a r rangemen ts were suspended en t ire ly 144 and Denmark observed wider margins of up to 4l/2 per cent either side of the cross-parities for EEC cur- rencies, Norwegian kroner, and most other currencies. The narrower margin arrangements were restored on October 10, except for sterling, wh ich continued to float. June 16. Authorized dealers were informed tha t, sub- ject to specified conditions, loans and credits taken up by residents from nonresidents could at any t ime be converted f rom one currency to ano ther and be trans- ferred f rom one creditor to another. June 30. The Na t ional Bank t igh tened its control over fo rwa rd purchases of foreign currency against kroner by banks' foreign correspondents and by other non- residents. For amoun ts in excess of DKr 1 million, informa t ion about the unde r ly ing contract, the names of the debtor and the creditor, and the due date of underlying amount had to be supplied to the Na t ional Bank before a forward transac t ion could be entered into. With respect to spot transactions in foreign cur- rency against kroner, authorized banks were reminded that transactions w i th foreign correspondents normally could be entered in to only for delivery in two days; transactions in excess of DKr 1 million henceforth required Na t ional Bank approval if they were for a shorter delivery term. July 1. The temporary import surcharge was reduced from 10 per cent to 7 per cent. September 25. Forward exchange transac t ions were restricted temporarily. October 6. Denmark and Norway agreed to continue until the end of 1973 the ir m u t u al industrial free trade arrangements. October 16. A supplementary "bond quota" of DKr 50 million for nonresidents' purchases of Danish kroner bonds was announced for the fou r th quar ter of 1972. October 17. Purchases of kroner bonds by nonresi- dents who were or had been Danish na t iona ls became subject to the same rules as purchases by other non- residents. Previously, sales by residents to such nonresi- dents were covered by an open general license and were not charged against the "bond quota." December 23. Denmark and F in land agreed to con- tinue un t il the end of 1973 th e ir m u t u al indus t r ial free trade arrangements. December 29. A quo ta of DKr 125 million was set for nonresidents' purchases of listed Danish kroner bonds in the first half of 1973. As under the earlier quotas, banks had to spread transactions evenly over the entire quota period. December 29. The Na t ional Bank issued a number of new exchange regulations applicable to authorized dealers, to become effective on J anu a ry 1, 1973. It also addressed letters to the largest exchange dealers con- cerning the ir permitted "commercial" net external posi- tion (see Janua ry 1, 1973, be low). The exchange regu- la t ions applicable to savings bank s, cooperative banks, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and the Office of the Public Trustee would shortly be completely revised. NOTE. —The following changes took place on Janu- ary 1, 1973: January 1. Denmark became a member of the EEC. January 1. Portfolio investment by nonresidents in Danish shares, whe ther officially listed on the main Copenhagen stock exchange or listed there at "street" or "curb" market prices, was liberalized. The only exception was that w i th respect to certificates issued by investment associations and investment companies, this liberalization did not apply to those whose latest balance sheet showed more than 10 per cent of their assets placed in Danish bonds, debentures, and mortgage bonds. Before any purchase or subscription was effected, the nonresident acquirer was required to submit a decla- ration to the Na t ional Bank to the effect that the intended purchase or subscription would not result in a direct investment in Denmark and that it was not being made with a view to subsequent direct investment in the company concerned. January 1. The ceiling on residents' purchases of real estate abroad for noncommercial purposes was raised from DKr 40,000 to DKr 60,000 a person. Further- more, applications for higher amoun ts could generally be expected to be gran ted, but only for property situ- ated in a member state of the EEC. January 1. Licensing practice under the existing exchange control regulations would hence fo r th be based on the rules of the EEC's directives on capital move- ments, subject to the t rans i t ional arrangements agreed with Denmark in the course of the entry negotiations. There was no immediate announcement of specific measures to ease the restrictions on inward and ou tward direct inves tment or on ou twa rd po r t fo l io investment. January I. The rules governing the net "commercial" foreign position of authorized fore ign exchange dealers were mod i f ied. Since December 1, 1971, these rules had provided th at the position of each bank must at all t imes be at least zero and at most DKr 2 m i l l ion, a l though a bank could at any given moment have a net "com- DENMARK mercial" foreign position equal to 15 per cent of its share capital plus reserves. While the rule regarding the positive position remained unchanged, an individual bank's position henceforth could be negative in accord- ance with the following rule. For all banks collectively, a quota was set (DKr 250 million for 1973) up to which they could incur a negative net "commercial" foreign position, insofar as this resulted from the tak ing up of foreign currency loans and credits for purposes of on- lending in foreign currency to customers in order to finance Danish foreign trade. The largest exchange deal- ers were allocated subquotas, and for the others there was a residual subquota of DKr 50 million. January 1. Sales of krone bonds to nonresidents would continue to be made through exchange dealers and for the account of the National Bank, but the spe- cial agent commission on such sales was canceled. January 1. The right of expatriate Danes to make payments from abroad into their krone accounts was limited. Also, the rules governing the max imum balance in such accounts were amended so that the credit bal- ance in any one account could not exceed DKr 75,000 unless the amount concerned was held as of Septem- ber 30, 1972 or stemmed from subsequent liquidation of the account holder's capital investments in Denmark. The latter rules were made applicable also to the krone accounts of other nonresidents, w i th the exception of foreign correspondents, shipping companies, and insur- ance firms. Existing individual exemptions from the rules on max imum balances in convertible krone accounts remained in force un t il fur ther notice but would be reviewed by the Na t ional Bank. January 1. The temporary import surcharge was fu r- ther reduced from 7 per cent to 4 per cent. January 1. Certain amendmen ts to the scheme of generalized ta r i ff preferences came into effect, as set out in Executive Order No. 560 of the Ministry of Finance. January 1. An in ternal consump t ion tax was imposed on coffee to cover the d i f fe rence between the previous import du ty on coffee and the new customs duty imposed under the common external ta r i ff of the EEC. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0 . 8 1 8 5 13 gram of fine gold per Dom in ican Peso, co r respond ing to RD$ 1.08571 = SDR 1 or RD$1 = US$1. The in te rven t ion currency is the U. S. do l l a r. Exchange t ransac t ions in U. S. dollars be tween the Cen t ral Bank of the Dom in ican Repub l ic and o ther b anks take place at RD $1 = US$1, p lus a commission of Mv of 1 per cent. Exchange transactions by comme rc ial banks w i th the public also take place at the ra te of RD$ 1 = US$ 1, subject to b a n k i ng commis- sions of 1A of 1 per cent b u y i ng and Vi of 1 per cent se l l ing. With the exception of paymen ts for imports made w i th the impo r te r 's own fo re ign exchange, all paymen ts abroad must be made th rough banks, and all exchange received must be sold to banks. The com- merc ial banks are requ i red to t r a n s f er to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. There is a tolerated para l lel exchange ma rke t. Mu l t ip le currency practices resu lt f rom the requ i remen ts of f u l ly prepa id letters of credit and p repayment of impo rt duties for certain imports. On August 1, 1953, the Dom in ican Republic notified the Fund that it fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is adm in- istered by the Central Bank. The Mone ta ry Board estab- lishes import quotas, wh ich are adm in is tered and con- trolled by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Imports f rom the Un i ted States that are financed by the U. S. AID must be effected under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settlements w i th Colombia and Venezuela may be effected through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements;1 pay- men ts for oil imports, however, may not be made through these accounts. Otherwise no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for payments to or f rom nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of some 80 categories of goods, inc lud ing automobiles w i th an f.o.b. value in excess of RD$2,000, * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was be ing deva lued, the Dominican Repub l ic with e f fect f r om Feb rua ry 16, 1973 es tab l ished a cen tral rate of RD$1 = US$1. The Dominican Repub l ic did not avail itself of wider margins. 1 Under these agreements, import collections and other payments to Colombia and Venezuela are settled promptly. 146 are proh ib i ted. Impor ts of cer ta in other commodities are restricted by quotas. All commodities are exempt f rom quo ta and p roh ib i t ion when they a re f inanced w i th the impor ter's own fo re ign exchange; such impor ts are also exempt f rom p r ep aym ent of impo rt taxes and sur- charges. L icen s ing con tro ls are ma in ta ined over a few commodities, however, for reasons of hea l th or security. The impo rt con t ro ls i n v o l ve exchange allocations. All payments for impo r ts requ ire the approval of the Central Bank, except those made w i th the importer's own exchange. Insurance on imports must be effected with companies authorized to operate in the Dominican Republic. Commodities subject to quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ions can be impor ted and settled w i th official exchange only against a f u l ly prepaid letter of credit. The same require- ment applies to some other goods that are not subject to qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ions, including m a ny types of smoked, dr ied or canned fish, alcoholic beverages, Venetian blinds, some pe r fumes and cosmetics, electric ovens, freezers and refr igera tors, record players, and certain construction materials. Some 20 other import items not subject to restrictions must be covered by regular letters of credit. The commercial banks transm it to the Central Bank each day a list of applications for all imports against letters of credit. A f ter the Central Bank approves an application and the importer (where necessary in accordance with Decree No. 239) prepays import duties and surcharges to the customs, the letter of credit may be opened by the commercial bank. For prepaid letters of credit the Central Bank debits the account of the commercial bank for the peso equivalent at the time of approval of the letter of credit. The peso equivalent of other letters of credit is forwarded to the Central Bank a f t er they have been negotiated and exchange is requested by the commercial bank. Importers of most commodities subject to the prepaid letter of credit obligation are also required to prepay to the cus- toms 80 per cent of the estimated value of customs duties and surcharges on the goods prior to the opening of the letter of credit. In principle, exchange for import payments is made available within not more than five work ing days f rom the receipt of the application, but since May 1966 there have been delays in the provision of exchange.2 Most imports are subject to an in ternal consumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem. V ir tua l ly all imports are also subject to customs surcharges (impuestos internos) ranging f rom 10 per cent to 200 per cent of the f.o.b. value; for most imports, however, they are 56.6 per cent. Imports of agricultural and indus tr ial mach inery and equipment and spare parts are subject to a single import tax ( inc lud ing customs du t ies) of 10 per cent. 2 By mid-March 1973 the payments arrears had been eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for inv is ib les requ i re the prior approval of the C en t r al B ank, wh ich is given on ly a f t er c a r e ful exam ina t ion of the app l ica t ion and if the transaction is cons idered genu ine. The a l loca t ion of fore ign exchange for t ravel and for in su r an ce p rem iums is sus- pended. A l lowances for f am i ly rem i t tances and medical expenses are ra re ly g ran ted. Res iden ts are not pre- ven ted, howeve r, f r om pu rchas ing exchange for travel purposes and personal rem i t tances in the pa ra l lel mar- ket. A i r l ine tickets are sub ject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RD$200 or f rom RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. Nonres iden ts wo rk ing in the Dom in ican Republic may remit abroad for any purpose up to 60 per cent of t h e ir salaries. For s tuden ts pu r su ing approved courses, exchange requests for mon th ly ma in tenance allowances are approved up to US$200 for s tud ies in Latin Amer ica, Puerto Rico, and Spain, and up to US$230 for studies in the Un i ted States (except Puerto R i c o ), Canada, and other European countries. Exchange is also sold for rem i t tances to au thor ized s tuden ts to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for con trac tual paymen ts, such as interest and amor t iza t ion paymen ts on loans registered w i th the Cen tral Bank, are approved in con- fo rm i ty with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and d iv idends are perm i t ted only in respect of fore ign inves tmen ts that have been registered in the Central Bank and cannot exceed 18 per cent a year of the net value of the original and any additional investment, inc lud ing reinvested profits. The Monetary Board, however, is empowered to authorize remit- tances in excess of 18 per cent when investments are deemed beneficial to the Dominican economy. Dividends remitted or credited to nonresidents are subject to a tax of 18 per cent. In pr inc ip le, exchange for paymen ts for invisibles is made available w i th in five days f rom receipt of the application, but there have occasionally been slight delays; at the end of 1972 allocations were current. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in connection with the operation of export quotas established under the In te rna t ional Sugar Agreement, and for coffee, cocoa, and tobacco. Within two working days of receiv- ing payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of their exports. For the purpose of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m in imum export prices published by the Central Bank. Exempt f rom the exchange sur- DOMINICAN REPUBLIC render r equ i r em en ts are fo re ign m i n i ng companies, and firms ope ra t ing in i n d u s t r i al f ree zones, which are only requ i red to convert su f f ic ient fore ign exchange to cover local costs and taxes. All exports of sugar and sugar by -p roduc ts are sub ject to pr ior au tho r iza t ion by a comm i t tee cons is t ing of the M in is ter of Finance, the Governor of the Cen t ral Bank, and the Executive Director of the Sugar I n s t i t u t e. Exporters may not extend cred it for mo re th an 90 days f r om the date of emba rka t ion w i t h o ut au tho r iza t ion by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The fore ign exchange proceeds f rom inv is ib les are subject to surrender requ i remen ts and must be su r ren- dered to the Cen tral Bank through the commerc ial banks. The import of Dom in ican bankno tes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of cap i tal by e i ther residents or nonres iden ts. Inward capital rem i t tances must be registered w i th the Central Bank and must be converted in to pesos at that Bank. Registered fo re ign d irect inves tmen ts are eligible for rem i t tances of p ro f i ts and d iv idends. Reg is tra t ion is pe rm i t ted for inve s tmen ts in ag r icu l tu re, livestock, min- ing, m a n u f a c t u r i n g, tou r ism, t ranspo r ta t ion and com- mun ica t ions, and finance companies. The Mone ta ry Board may, however, pe rm it the registration of other inves tmen ts when deemed bene f ic ial to the economic development of the country. Reg is tra t ion may cover the value of mach inery and equ ipmen t, as well as in tan- gible assets such as licenses and patents. Applications for approval of ou twa rd capital rem i t tances must be subm i t ted th rough the commerc ial banks to the Central Bank. W i thdrawa ls of capital by fore igners leaving the Dominican Repub l ic are authorized in reasonable amounts, sometimes with provision for the t ran s fer to be effected in annual ins ta l lmen ts. Applications by resi- dents to t rans fer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for num i sma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone ta ry authori- ties and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dom in ican Republic or abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Changes during 1972 January 13. A Monetary Board resolution revised the foreign investment registration rules. Investments in agriculture, livestock, mining, manufacturing, tour- ism, transportation and communications, and finance companies could be registered. Registration would be a prerequisite for permission to transfer annual divi- dends and profits, and these would be subject to a limit of 18 per cent of net registered capital, unless the investments had been registered prior to February 6, 1972. April 28. The Monetary Board modified the Janu- ary 13 resolution (see above). The registration of invest- ments in additional economic sectors could be author- ized when they contributed to the economic develop- ment of the country. Furthermore, the Board could permit the remittance of profits and dividends in excess of 18 per cent a year when the investment was con- sidered important to the economy, involved special risks, or required a long gestation period. Special con- tracts could specify such higher rates of transfer. May 9. The par value was changed from 0.888671 gram to 0.818513 gram of fine gold per Dominican peso. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at RD$1 = US$1. The new par value replaced the central rate of RD$1 = US$1. May 29. Law No. 346 imposed a 10 per cent ad valorem import duty on all goods formerly imported free of duty and raised to 10 per cent existing duties of less than 10 per cent. In addition, a 5 per cent tax was imposed on all goods imported under import duty exemption contracts approved by the Department of Exonerations of the Secretariat of Finance. June 15. Monetary Board Resolution No. 20 extended the system of import controls until September 30, 1972. July 20. The Central Bank was authorized to accept from commercial banks, for exchange into domestic currency, 10 specified foreign currencies when received from shops in the free trade zones. September 7. A Monetary Board resolution was revoked that had limited expenditures in currencies other than the U. S. dollar to payments through letters of credit. (With effect from February 13, 1973, trans- actions in foreign currencies other than the U. S. dollar again could take place only through letters of credit.) September 12. Monetary Board Resolution No. 2 extended the system of import controls until Decem- ber 31, 1972. September 14. In order to ensure proper payment of taxes and surrender of exchange proceeds, all export sales of sugar and by-products required the prior approval of a commission comprising the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Central Bank, and the Executive Director of the Sugar Institute. October 12. Many types of smoked or dried fish, as well as canned sardines and mackerel, were freed from import quota and prohibition. These imports had to be paid for under fu l ly prepaid letters of credit. December 7. The requirement of prepaid letters of credit was revoked for the importation of jeep-type vehicles. December 15. Monetary Board Resolution No. 1 extended the system of import controls until Decem- ber 31, 1973. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.0355468 gram of fine gold per Ecuadoran Sucre, corresponding to S/ 25.00 = SDR 1. There are two exchange markets. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official market is S/ 25.00 = US$1. In the official market the Central Bank maintains rates of S/ 24.75 buying and S/ 25.25 selling per U. S. dollar which apply to export proceeds, import payments (except for printed matter and nonmonetary go ld), certain invisible and capital trans- actions, and all transactions by the Government or public entities. All other transactions take place in a free market where the rate fluctuates and all purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to a tax of 1 per cent. The free market buying and selling rates on December 30, 1972 were about S/ 25.00 per US$1. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, with effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has authority to shift trans- actions between the two exchange markets and has extensive powers with respect to import policy. The official exchange market is under the control and super- vision of the Central Bank of Ecuador. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses and regis- ters foreign capital. Exports of coffee to "new markets," however, require the prior authorization of the Institute of Foreign Trade and Integration. Imports which enter as part of a direct investment and imports by foreign enterprises which have contracts with the Government require prior authorization by the Institute of Foreign Trade and Integration and by the Finance Ministry, respectively. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, and Romania must take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru must be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible curren- * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U .S. dollar was being devalued, Ecuador with effect from February 26 established a central rate of S/ 25.00 = US$1. The 1 per cent tax on sales and purchases of exchange in the free market was abolished. In the official market, Central Bank purchases and sales of exchange from and to petroleum companies took place at S/ 25.00 per US$1, plus or minus an exchange tax of 1 per cent, while the Central Bank set buy ing and selling rates of S/ 24.80 and S/ 24.95 per US$1 for all other official market transactions. In the free market, the initial buying and selling rates were S/ 24.50 and S/ 24.60 per US$1. cies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential and semiessential goods, and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports, with the exceptions specified below. Books, newspapers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music may be imported freely without a license or consular invoice; payments have to be made through the free market. Medicine and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$100 c.i.f. or less (US$100 f.o.b. or less for goods shipped by a i r ). A few goods may be imported only from LAFTA countries, and some only from Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate advance deposits and additional import taxes have been paid, that the required prepayments of import duties have been made, and that a certificate is submitted showing that the insurance has been ar- ranged in Ecuador. The licenses automatically entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value of the imports upon presentation of the shipping documents; advance payments for imports are permitted. Import licenses which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate ("no exchange licenses" or permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods financed from the proceeds of certain international loans, pro- vided that these have been registered at the Central Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. The Monetary Board is authorized to shift items between Lists I and II and to prohibit the import of goods or l i ft import prohibitions when the economic situation of the country and the balance of payments situation so require. The advance deposit requirement applies to most public and private imports financed with official exchange. Imports of goods originating in Bolivia are exempt from advance deposit. The other exceptions include imports under the agricultural surplus agree- ments with the United States, goods donated by foreign governments and organizations, imports of certain goods to be used for the construction and equipment of hotels, all imports from Paraguay, imports financed by international organizations, imports of capital goods financed by suppliers' credit for at least one year af ter arrival, imports of medical supplies and equ ipment made by official health or social service ins t i tu t ions, imports by the universities and polytechnical schools, 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR certain nonconsumer goods destined for the ag r icu l tu ral sector, imports of nonmone ta ry gold, and impor ts of machinery, equ ipmen t, and materials needed for public works. The advance deposit must be made in sucres by the impo r ter when app ly ing for an impo rt license; the importer must at the same time lodge with the Central Bank a prepayment in local cu r rency of the import du ty. Import deposit receipts for List I goods are negotiable. The rates for the advance impo rt depos- its are de term ined in accordance with the type of goods imported. There are five categories of imports, three in List I and two in List II. At the end of 1972, they ranged f rom 10 per cent to 130 per cent of the c.i.f. value, but for impor ts by the Government or by off ic ial agencies they cannot exceed 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Deposits for List I goods are retained for 90 days, and those for List II goods for 180 days. These prepayments are released pari passu with the mak ing of impo rt paymen ts. That pa rt of the p repaymen ts which exceeds 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value is released at the t ime of cus toms clearance. The prescribed pre- payment of import du ty is 100 per cent for both List I and List II commodities. Imports of crude pe tro leum receive a subsidy of S/ 7.07 per U. S. dollar invoiced on import documents and are exempt f rom all fiscal charges. The subsidy is received in the fo rm of a tax credit certificate issued by the Central Bank on the basis of documen ta t ion approved by the M in is t ry of Na tu ral Resources and Tourism that the import was effected, without relation to the import payment. Most imports are subject to a tax of 4 per cent levied on commercial transactions. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments in respect of certain current invisibles may be obtained from the Central Bank at the official rate. These invisibles are in principle lim- ited to interest on foreign loans that have been registered at the Central Bank, dividends and profits on foreign investments registered at the Central Bank, payments by the Government and pub l ic entities, and the nec- essary expenses of Ecuadorans studying at universities abroad. Interest payments at the official rate may not exceed IVi per cent a year and remittances of divi- dends and profits at the official rate may not exceed 14 per cent of the registered value of the investment. With respect to loans to petroleum companies only, interest, commission, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 per cent above the rates of interest of the creditor country; moreover, annual amortization may not exceed the sum of undistributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any variation in working capital. There are also limits on student allowances eligible for the official rate; these range f rom US$300 to US$450 a month, depending on the type of study and on the country involved. All other payments for current 150 invisibles, inc lud ing travel expenditure, must be settled in the f ree ma rket and are unrestricted. There are no limitations on the amoun ts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Residents trav- eling abroad by air must pay a tax of S/ 600 for each exit visa. Tickets for fore ign travel are taxed at the rate of 8 per cent on tickets for depa r tu re f rom Ecua- dor and 4 per cent on tickets for the return trip to Ecuador. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports requ ire licenses to ensure, among other things, the f u ll surrender of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued f ree ly, subject to guarantee. No surrender is required for exports effected und er licensed bar ter transactions. Reference prices are established for exports of b a n a n as to he lp to ensure f u ll surrender of the exchange proceeds. Ref- erence prices are also established for exports of crude pe tro leum; these serve as the basis for the calculation of taxes, royalties, etc. Certain exports are subject to export taxes, payable at the time the export license is received. An export tax of 15 per cent is levied on coffee beans (except when shipped to nontraditional ma rke t s ), cocoa beans, sugar, and crude petroleum. Certain exports exempted f rom the ad valorem export taxes receive a subsidy based on the f. o. b. value. The subsidy is received in the fo rm of a tax credit certificate (certificado de abono tributario) on the basis of cus- toms documen ta t ion. There are other export taxes in addition to those mentioned above. Proceeds front Invisibles Receipts from specified invisibles have to be sold to the Central Bank at the official rate. All other receipts, including those f rom travelers, may be sold in the free market. There are no limitations on the amoun ts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may bring in. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Outward transfers through the official market are restricted. All foreign investments in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank in order to be entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortization.1 In the case of investment for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must document that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank of Ecuador. For fore ign capital entering in the form of machinery and equipment, the investor must document that the merchandise has been nationalized (cleared through customs) and that it took 1 Monetary Board Resolution No. 651 of J anu a ry 10, 1973 stipu- lated that all new fore ign investments must be registered w i th the Central Bank after authorization of the investment has been obtained from the Institute of Foreign Trade and Integration. Existing foreign investments had to be registered within 90 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the fo rm of a "nonreimbursable" import. Add i t iona l ly the investor must present to the Cen t ral B ank the ce r t i f ica- tion f r om the appropr ia te m in i s t ry (F inance, N a t u r al Resources and Tourism, or Production) that the declared value conforms to the actual value of the mach ine ry and equ ipmen t. The Exchange Depar tment of the Cen tral Bank must subm it a recommendation to the General Management of the Central Bank w i th in 30 days f rom receipt of the request for registration and a ll per t inent documen ta t ion. Thereafter, tak ing in to account the interests of the Ecuado ran economy and priorities established in the coun t ry 's development plans, the Gene ral Management of the Cen tral Bank must approve or deny the registration w i th in an addi- tional 30 days. In certain cases, where all documenta- tion has been submitted, the Central Bank can provi- sionally reg is ter the inves tmen t, for a period of up to 90 days. S im i lar ly, loans in foreign exchange granted to the Government or to official entities must be registered with the Exchange Depar tment of the Central Bank of Ecuador; for private loans registration is optional. In the case of suppliers' credits and s im i lar credit for f inanc ing the impo r ta t ion of merchandise, no special registration procedure is requ ired; all the per t inent information on terms of paymen t, etc., is contained in the import license, and that provides the basis for pur- chase of exchange for remittance of interest, charges, and scheduled amortization. 2 Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the w i thd rawal of foreign investment from Ecuador five years a f t er the date of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Cen tral Bank. Profits accu- mulated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank for investments which have completed the registration pro- cedure. For investments registered on a provisional basis, no prof i ts may be repatriated through the official market. Profit remittances may not exceed the limit (14 per cent a year) specified in the Foreign Invest- ment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private individuals are not granted official foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to main- tain accounts w i th correspondent banks abroad in con- vertible currencies. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work whose gold con- tent represents not more than 25 per cent of its market value. Imports of mone tary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; they are treated as List I imports, are payable through the official market, and are free of advance deposit. Imports of nonmonetary gold in bars 2 On April 9, 1973 Decree No. 331 prohibited foreigners f rom own- ing rural properties and f rom own ing or operating mining industries within 30 miles of Ecuador's coastline or borders. ECUADOR may be made by the Cen tral Bank or by any other res ident and are t rea ted as List I impo r ts, are payab le th rough the free m a rk e t, and are f ree of advance deposit. Gold bars are exempt f rom impo rt du ty, wh i le that on semiworked gold is 70 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1972 January 7. Decree No. 297 requ ired applications for impo rt licenses to be accompanied by an insurance certificate. January 11. Mone ta ry Board Reso lu t ion No. 600 re-established the va l id i ty of Resolution No. 567 of December 10, 1970, which exempted impo r ts for the cons truc t ion and ma in tenance of roads f rom advance import deposits. January 11. Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 601 exempted f rom advance import deposits imports effected by public entities (or for social services by private bodies) when f inanced by foreign funds. January 11. Monetary Board Resolution No. 603 exempted f rom advance import deposits certain phar- maceutical products classified as List I goods. January 20. Monetary Board Resolution No. 608 modified the import deposit system by requiring uni- form deposits of 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value for List I imports and 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value for List II imports. The differentiation of the deposit requirements according to the terms of payment thus was terminated. January 20. Monetary Board Resolution No. 609 ruled that applications for import licenses must be accompanied by evidence of payment of the 4 per cent tax on commercial transactions due on imports of the preceding months. January 30. Decree No. 136 suspended until Decem- ber 31, 1972, the 15 per cent ad valorem export tax on coffee shipped to countries listed in Annex B of the International Coffee Agreement. During the sus- pension period, a 5 per cent ad valorem "contribution" would be collected instead. February 23. Resolution No. 312 of the Superinten- dency of Banks made foreign exchange houses operating in the free market subject to the authority of the Super- intendency. M in imum capital and guarantee require- ments were set. The provisions of the general banking law were extended to exchange houses. March 16. Fifty per cent of the coffee export quotas for traditional markets was assigned to producers and the remainder to the commercial sector; previously, the shares were 25 per cent and 75 per cent, respec- tively. March 21. Decree No. 112 exempted books, maga- zines, and printed or recorded music f rom consular invoices and import licenses. April 11. The 1 per cent exchange tax levied on sales and purchases in the free market and collected 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR by the Central Bank was formally integrated into the national budget by Decree No. 226. April 24. Monetary Board Resolution No. 610 exempted from advance import deposits all imports financed with credits extended by recognized interna- tional financial agencies and registered with the Central Bank. April 25. Exchange Office Circular No. 41 provided that imports of nonmonetary gold had to be paid for with foreign exchange purchased in the free market. However, importers could also purchase such gold from the Central Bank, which would itself purchase abroad such additional supplies as might be required, with for- eign exchange acquired in the free market. At the same time, nonmonetary gold was shifted from List II to List I, but remained subject to advance deposit. May 4. Monetary Board Resolution No. 611 reduced the rate of advance import deposits for List I goods to a uniform 45 per cent and amended the rates for List II goods as follows: Category Ila, 100 per cent; Category lib, 110 per cent; Category He, 120 per cent; and Category lid, 130 per cent. May 10. Decree No. 341 provided that the Ministry of Production would be exclusively responsible for importing wheat, oats, rye, barley, oilseeds, and other essential foods. It could exceptionally authorize private firms to import these foods tuffs. This Decree was sus- pended on October 3 by Decree No. 1147. May 17. Monetary Board Resolution No. 613 reduced the advance import deposit on List I goods to 25 per cent when imports were effected under the terms of the Industrial Development Law, the Agriculture and Live- stock Development Law, or the Law for the Develop- ment of Crafts and Small Industries. June 14. Monetary Board Resolution No. 617 exempted from advance import deposits the imports of any trader who simultaneously exported Gros Michel bananas of equivalent value to nontraditional markets at a price of at least US$70 a metric ton. For every application, however, List II goods were not to exceed 40 per cent of the total value of such compensating imports. June 14. Monetary Board Resolution No. 619 re- established the validity of Resolution No. 535 (issued on April 29, 1969) which exempted f rom advance import deposits the imports of universities and polytechnical schools. June 23. The Ecuadoran State Petroleum Corporation (CEPE) was created. July 19. Monetary Board Resolution No. 625 exempted from advance import deposits some 75 cate- gories of imports of raw materials, fertilizers, inter- mediate goods, and capital goods included in List I, provided that the goods were destined for the agri- cultural sector. 152 July 24. Decree No. 673 comprising the Law for the creation of the Export Promotion Fund was issued. July 27. The Export Fund was established. It com- menced operations on August 4. July 29. Decree No. 707 established a new scale of reference prices for exports of crude petroleum. They would remain in effect until December 31, 1972. August 2. Monetary Board Resolution No. 628, amending Decree No. 1740 of November 22, 1971, established new regulations for foreign petroleum com- panies which had signed concessionary contracts with the Government. Terms and conditions of any foreign loan agreements had to be approved by the Central Bank to qualify for registration. Interest, commissions, and other finan- cial expenses related to registered loans could be remitted provided they did not exceed the rates of inter- est prevailing in the financial market of the creditor country by 2 per cent. Annual amortization would be permitted according to the relevant agreement, subject to a maximum of the sum of undistributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and variations in working capital. In each case, the Ministry of Natural Resources would specify the amount of capital and profits which a company could be permitted to remit through the official market. August 3. Decree No. 670 exempted from export taxes certain banana exports realized directly by the Regional Unions of Banana Cooperatives of the Central and Southern Zones. August 9. Decision No. 240 of the Ministers of Natural Resources and Tourism and of Finance defined the role of that Ministry, the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank with respect to petroleum exports. August 14. Monetary Board Resolution No. 627 of July 19 changed the structure of advance import deposit rates. List I was divided into three categories of goods, namely: Group A —machinery, capital equipment, and "essential" consumer goods, subject to a deposit of 20 per cent; Group B—"essential" semimanufactured goods, 30 per cent deposit; and Group C—other goods, 40 per cent deposit. On the other hand, List II was consolidated into two categories, namely: Group A—"nonessential" items, 100 per cent deposit; and Group B —"luxury" items, 130 per cent deposit (100 per cent for public sector impor ts). The advance deposit requirements were applicable also to goods of LAFTA origin (except goods originating in Paraguay). August 28. Monetary Board Resolution No. 632 exempted imports of nonmonetary gold from advance deposits. Payments for imports of nonmonetary gold (which had been shifted from the official to the free market on April 25, see above) continued to be payable through the free market. August 29. The Monetary Board declared receipts issued for advance import deposits on List I imports to be negotiable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September 1. Decree No. 914 of August 25 modified the export incentives based on tax credit certificates. Where the national content of eligible exports was at least 50 per cent, the incentive would be based on the total f.o.b. value; otherwise, it would be based on the national content only. September 6. Decree No. 933 provided that the receipts of CEPE must be deposited in a special account with the Central Bank. September 27. Decree No. 1103 provided that with effect from January 1, 1973 industrial firms must sub- mit their applications for import licenses to the Central Bank. October 6. Monetary Board Resolution No. 638 established in the Central Bank a Guarantee and Devel- opment Fund for aid to small industrial firms. October 23. Monetary Board Resolution No. 641 of October 20, reduced the advance deposit rates for List I imports by 10 percentage points, as follows: Group A, to 10 per cent; Group B, to 20 per cent; and Group C, to 30 per cent. In addition, the retention period for List I commodities was reduced from 120 days to 90 days. ECUADOR October 25. Decree No. 1186, which reformed the income tax law, imposed a withholding tax of 40 per cent on remittances abroad of profits, interest, royal- ties, and other payments derived f rom Ecuadoran sources. October 27. Monetary Board Resolution No. 645 sstablished limitations on guarantees extended by finan- cial institutions in Ecuador in respect of external obli- gations. November 22. Monetary Board Resolution No. 647 established in the Central Bank a Fund for Agricultural Development and Diversification. December 8. Monetary Board Resolution No. 649 restored the Central Bank's power to open irrevocable letters of credit and to allow advance payments to cover 100 per cent of the c. & f. va lue of imports. December 27. The amount that foreign companies establishing subsidiaries in Ecuador are required to deposit with an Ecuadoran bank was increased from 25 per cent to 100 per cent of the new company's capital. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Exchange Rate System* On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyptian Pound was e s tab l i shed by the A r ab Repub l ic of Egypt with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Most exchange transactions take place at rates based on the off ic ial rate of LE 1 = US$2.30. The Cen tral Bank of Egypt's buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dol- lar on December 31, 1972 were LE 0.434782 and LE 0.437390, respectively. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most ou tward remittances of invisi- bles and capital at the official rate. A p rem ium of 35 per cent of the f.o.b. price is applicable in principle to the conver t ib le currency proceeds of certain agricul- tu ral exports. An exchange rate of US$1.54 per LE 1 is applicable to the conversion of conver t ib le fore ign currency by fore ign trave lers and by Egyp t ian citizens working abroad, to sales of exchange for certain inv is i- bles, to sales of exchange for certain imports by private sector enterprises, and to purchases of export proceeds f rom motion p ic tures and phonograph records. (On Janua ry 10, 1973 the incen t ive rates were changed f rom LE 0.65 to LE 0.66 buy ing, and f rom LE 0.68 to LE 0.70 selling, per US$1 .) Banks require prior exchange control approval to deal among themselves in foreign currencies or to engage in arbitrage transactions abroad; such approval is not required, however, for balances held in specified foreign currency accounts. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme Com- mittee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade. The exchange control laws, ministerial orders, decree-laws, instructions of the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade, and decisions of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade. A foreign exchange budget is established annua l ly. Exchange con- trol is implemented under the supervision and ins truc- tions of the Under Secretary for Economy and Foreign Trade in Charge of Exchange Operations and the Foreign Exchange Budget and the Director of Exchange Operations. The technical work of exchange control is performed by the Exchange Control Administration attached to the afore-mentioned Under Secretary. Banks are authorized to execute fore ign exchange transactions, within the f ramewo rk of a general au thor iza t ion, with- out need to obtain specific exchange control approval. * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. do l lar was being deva lued, Egypt on Feb rua ry 25 changed the official b u y i ng and selling rates for the U. S. dollar to US$2.55555 and US$2.54031, respectively, per Egyp t ian pound. The incentive rates were changed to LE 0.62 and LE 0.65, respectively, per US$1. 154 The General Control Au tho r i ty for Exports and Impor ts con tro ls impo r ts and exports; it also issues impo rt licenses. Most impo r ts and exports are carried out by public sector companies. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts for impo r ts no rma l ly may be made only to the coun t ry of or ig in. Paymen ts to residents of coun- tries w i th which Egypt does not have b i la teral pay- men ts agreements may be made in the cu r rency of the payee's c o u n t ry when that cu r rency is available; in a convertible cu r rency; 1 in Egyptian pounds to the credit of the app rop r ia te nonres ident accoun t; or in any other m ann er perm i t ted by the Exchange Control Adm in is t ra- tion. Receipts may be accepted in the currency of the payer's coun t ry, if it is a cu r rency acceptable to the Cen tral Bank; in any convertible cu r rency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropr ia te nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Exchange Control Adm in is t ra t ion. Settlements with coun tr ies with which Egypt has paymen ts agreements are made according to the terms of those agreemen ts .- Cer ta in settlements w i th coun- tries with which indemn i ty agreements concerning com- pensation for na t iona l ized property are in force are made th rough special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Cen tral Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyp t ian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a con- vertible currency to an authorized bank in Egypt or by debiting a Free Nonresident Account. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to the bilateral payments agreements of Egypt or to the indemnity agreements concluded w i th certain countries, there are three ma in types of nonresident accounts in Egyptian pounds: Free Nonresident Accounts, Nonresi- dent C Accounts, and Nonresident D Accounts. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence, and by in terna t ional organizations with head- quarters in Egypt. They may be credited with proceeds 1 Convertible currenc ies for this purpose are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, No rw eg i an k rone r, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f ranc s, and U. S. dollars. For cer ta in other purposes, Kuwa i ti d ina r s, Saudi Arab ian r iya ls, and a few other currencies are also regarded as conver t ib le. 2 Egypt has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements w i th A lban ia, Algeria, Bu lga r ia, mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eas tern Ge rmany, Greece, Hunga ry, I r aq, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Morocco, Po land, Roman ia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, U. S. S. R., Nor th Viet-Nam, and Yemen A r ab Repub l ic. In add i t ion, for the f in an c ing of t rade in ce r ta in specified commodities, cred it fac i l i t ies have been established be tween the Cen t ral Bank of Egypt and the cen tral b anks of Cuba, Ghana, Gu in e a, Ind ia, Jo rdan, Mali, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, and Turkey. There is also a b i la teral paymen ts arrangement with Bangladesh. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from the sale of any conve r t ib le currency that has been transferred f rom ab road; w i th t r an s f e rs f rom o ther Free Nonresident Accounts; w i th in terest on the accounts; and with the Egyp t ian pound equ iva lent of any t ran s fer authorized in conve r t ib le cu r rency. They may be debited for paymen ts due to residents; for t ran s fe rs to other Free Nonresident Accounts or Nonresident C or D Accounts; and for paymen ts abroad in any convertible currency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any nonres iden t, irrespective of his coun t ry of residence. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that has been trans- ferred f rom abroad; w i th t rans fe rs f rom Free Nonresi- dent Accounts or other Nonres ident C Accounts; and with any amoun ts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Exchange Con trol Adm in i s t r a t ion. They may be debited, subject to exchange control approval, for paymen ts due to residents (except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' d isbu rsemen ts ); for transfers to other Non res ident C Accoun ts; for t ran s fe rs to Non- resident D Accounts; and for payments abroad in con- vertible currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement country (see footnote 2 ). The account must be designated by the name of the partner coun try concerned, and transfers from the account of one country to that of any other country may not be made without exchange control authorization. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from a Free Nonresident Account and —provided that exchange control au tho r iza t ion is ob ta ined —w i th trans- fers from a Nonresident C Account; with transfers from other Nonresident D Accounts of the same nationality; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account. They may be debited for payments due to resi- dents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements, and —provided that exchange control authorization is obtained —for transfers to other Non- resident D Accounts and for payments to the country in whose name the account is designated. There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder or his family in Egypt. They may also be debited, subject to prior approval, for investments in Egyptian Government loans or in registered shares in nominative form of companies established in Egypt, and for subscriptions to increases in capital of Egyptian companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived from such investments may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Blocked accounts held by jur i- dical persons may be debited for amounts not exceeding EGYPT LE 1,000 a year for settlement of obligations due to the Egyp t ian authorities, paymen ts to residents for services rendered, and expenses incurred in connection w i th the activities or residence of the holder's employees or representatives in Egypt. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are blocked; no transactions on these accounts may take place w i thout prior approval. In addition, there are certain types of fore ign currency accounts that may be held by nonresidents or persons who for ce r ta in exchange control purposes are treated as nonres iden ts. These fo re ign currency accounts are of f o ur types, as indicated below. External Accounts of Nonresident Aliens may be opened in the name of nonresident foreigners. They may be credited w i th convertible currencies transferred from abroad; fo re ign currency transferred f rom other accounts of the same type; and bank interest on balances in these accounts. They may be debited for amoun ts of foreign exchange sold to the Central Bank of Egypt at the official exchange rate to cover local paymen ts; transfers to other accounts of the same type; and transfers abroad in any convertible currency for the benefit of nonresi- dents (or, if the account is held by a juridical person, for the benefit of residents who are employed by the holder of the accoun t). External Accounts of Resident Aliens may be opened in the name of foreign residents who for exchange con- trol purposes are treated as nonresidents in respect of income they receive from abroad. They may be credited only w i th convertible currencies transferred from abroad and with bank interest on balances in these accounts. They may be debited only for amounts sold at the official exchange rate to the Central Bank of Egypt to cover local payments and for transfers abroad in any convertible currency for the benefit of the account holder, his parents, w i fe, or children. External Accounts of Egyptian Citizens may be opened in the name of citizens who for exchange control purposes are treated as nonresidents in respect of income they receive abroad, such as emigrants and Egyptians working abroad for over five years. They may be credited with convertible currencies transferred from abroad and with bank interest on balances in these accounts. They may be debited for transfers abroad in any convertible currency for the benefit of the account holder, his parents, wife, or children; for amounts of foreign currency sold to obtain an exchange premium; and for sales of foreign currency for Egyptian pounds to the bank at which the account is held, at a rate of US$1.54 per LE 1. Foreign Currency Resident Accounts of Egyptian Citizens may be opened for Egyptians working abroad or perform ing services in Egypt for foreign persons or firms. They may be credited with convertible currencies transferred f rom abroad that represent their foreign currency income af ter deduction of the prescribed percentages that must be repatriated and surrendered 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT at the official rate; bankers' checks, travelers checks, and letters of credit denominated in convertible cur- rency; foreign banknotes; and bank interest. They may be debited for transfers abroad in the name of the account holder while he is abroad; travel and living expenses abroad of the account holder, his parents, w ife, or children; transfers abroad for the benefit of the account holder to cover personal expenses; and sales of foreign currency for Egyptian pounds to the bank at which the account is held, at a rate of US$1.54 per LE 1. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods f rom any source, and all imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are also produced locally. Certain commodities, when imported by private sector enterprises, are financed at the US$1.54 rate. Most imports are made by publicly owned com- mercial companies affiliated with the Egyptian General Trade Organization. Some imports may also be made by certain industrial and other public sector establish- ments. Egyptian citizens working abroad are permitted to import a passenger automobile once every two years, provided they have resided abroad for at least six con- secutive months. A Supreme Council for Foreign Trade at the Minis- try of Economy and Foreign Trade, chaired by the Deputy Premier and Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade, is entrusted with establishing a long-term policy for exports and imports, controlling the annual export and import p lan, and supervising the execution of the foreign exchange budget. The ministries concerned are responsible for setting p r io r i t ies regarding imports and their t im ing, w i th in the f ramewo rk of quar ter ly foreign exchange programs. De term ina t ion committees in the various m in is tr ies consider import and export offers for the goods w i th in their competence, in the light of speci- fications, prices, delivery dates, and means of pay- ment. The necessary au tho r iza t ions for the imp lemen ta- tion of import t ransac t ions are issued to banks th rough the General Control A u t h o r i ty for Impor ts and Exports. For purposes of adm in i s t ra t ion, the economy is divided into several sectors (ag r icu l tu ra l, indus tr ia l, transportation, etc .). The annual foreign exchange bud- get provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be impo r ted w i t h in t h at quo ta. In d r aw ing up this budget, an estimate is made first of the country's export proceeds and its earnings f rom invisibles, as well as the expected ava i lab i l i ty of foreign loans and other credit fac i l i t ies. A l lowance is then made for the com- m i tmen ts f a l l i ng due d u r i ng the fiscal year in respect of fore ign debt service and other obligations, as well as paymen ts for invisibles. The r em a in ing resources in convertible and b i la te ral currencies are allocated to the 156 various sectors of the economy in accordance with the priorities given to the import requirements of each. An External Financing Committee has been established in accordance with Ministerial Decree No. 607 of 1971. It coordinates foreign exchange requirements and avail- able resources by drawing up quarterly programs for the implementation of the annual foreign exchange budget. Imports of new personal effects exceeding LE 50 in value and imports not requiring the transfer of foreign exchange are subject to import licenses, which are issued by the General Control Authority. All other imports are regulated by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. A development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain highly essential foodstuffs imported by the Ministry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for pay- ments for certain invisibles in accordance with general authorizations and instructions and up to specific quotas. Private travel abroad normally requires an exit visa (except travel to the Libyan Arab Republic or the Syrian Arab Repub l ic). Egyptian nationals who have deposited earnings from their work abroad, or f rom services performed for nonresidents, in specified foreign curency accounts, may use this foreign exchange freely for any travel expenses for themselves, their wives and children, or their parents. Other residents may purchase, through local banks acting as inter- mediaries and up to specified amounts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at the US$1.54 rate. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to all pay- ments for invisibles at the official rate, except students' remittances, government paymen ts, and transfers of f u n ds for pilgrimages. Travelers may not export Egyptian pound banknotes. Egyptian nationals working abroad and returning to their place of work may take w i th them any remain- ing foreign exchange which they had brought in and declared; fo re ign travelers leav ing Egypt may take out only the balance af ter deduction of the equivalent of <£ stg. 5 for each night spent in Egypt. Residents may not take out fore ign exchange in excess of the equiva- lent of <£ stg. 30 w i thout specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart f rom exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the na t ional economy, whose export may be restricted, exports may be made free of license. Exports of many produc ts are organized and supervised by De te rm ina t ion Committees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are exported by the public sector only. A premium of 35 per cent of the f.o.b. price is applicable in princi- ple to the convertible currency proceeds of exports of citrus fruits, fresh vegetables, potatoes, and ground- nuts. Export proceeds in convertible currencies from motion pictures and phonograph records may be retained in domestic foreign currency accounts, balances in which may be used by the holder to import goods required in his profession or may be sold to banks at the US$1.54 rate. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of shipment of the goods. Pro- ceeds from exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified coun- tries may be settled through indemnity accounts in Egyptian pounds. Proceeds from Invisibles A premium exchange rate of US$1.54 per LE 1 is applied to foreign exchange remitted by Egyptians abroad and sold to a bank, and to foreign currency sold by tourists. This facility is applicable to specified convertible currencies only. Physical persons who are considered nonresidents (including emigrants of Egyptian nationality, Egyptian nationals who have been resident abroad for at least five consecutive calendar years, and foreigners who reside in Egypt) are not obliged to transfer to Egypt any part of their foreign earnings. They may retain these earnings in foreign currency accounts. Egyptian nationals who are working abroad for a period of less than five calendar years or who perform services for nonresidents are obliged to repatriate fixed percentages of their foreign income and may retain the balance in foreign currency accounts. With these exceptions, all persons and legal entities in Egypt are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, within one month from the date of their collection abroad, all proceeds in foreign currencies derived from invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyptian pounds from a Shipping Account No. 1, which may be credited only with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies or by transfers from a Free Nonresident Account. Certain travel in Egypt by nonresidents may be financed from Nonresident C Accounts, or, under indemnity agreements with specified countries, from Nonresident T Accounts. Persons arriving in Egypt f rom abroad may not import Egyptian pound banknotes but are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange, subject to customs declaration. For- eign travelers must convert into Egyptian currency the equivalent of <£ stg. 30 to obtain an entry visa. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earn- ings in specified foreign currency accounts in Egyptian EGYPT banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including transfer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers by residents are severely restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer funds and /or to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly; in addition, they may export freely personal effects and fu rn i tu re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly. Capital transfers abroad are subject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in Egypt against payment in foreign cur- rencies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above). Proceeds from sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between nonresidents require prior approval. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securities drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue; (2) the value of life or endowment policies on surrender or at ma tur i ty; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irre- spective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a family's assets in Egypt to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regula- tions must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment Law of September 23, 1971 defines the treatment of new foreign investments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are con- sidered on an individual basis. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins and gold jewe lry in Egypt. The mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and author- ized indu s t r ial users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any other fo rm. There is a free ma rket for gold coins in Cairo. W i th the exception of mone ta ry gold, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses. Changes during 1972 January 6. Foreign Currency Resident Accounts of Egyptian citizens could be credited, in foreign cur- rency, with bank interest. January 9. Tourists and other foreign na t iona ls hold- ing an entry visa ( for purposes other than study, work, or residence for a period exceeding three months) were granted a premium of 35 per cent on the official rate of LE 1 = US$2.30 on specified (con- vertible) fore ign currencies exchanged at authorized banks; the resulting effective exchange rate was LE 1 = 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT US$1.70. For bank transfers, banks had to apply the premium to the Central Bank's buy ing rates, and for "acceptable" banknotes to the buy ing rates set by the Permanent Committee for Foreign Banknotes. January 18. Free Nonresident Accounts could be maintained by international organizations with head- quarters in Egypt. February 2. The import of a wide range of luxu ry consumer goods was prohibited. These included certain cotton textiles, television sets, radios, cigarettes, cigars, refrigerators, wash ing machines, stoves, carpets, and diesel-operated automobiles. Impo rt duties on large passenger automobiles were doubled to 200 per cent. (Imports of additional luxu ry goods were prohibited on May 1.) February 9. All domestic retail sales to Egyptian nationals against payment in foreign currency were prohibited. April 20. The value of goods that Egyptian nationals returning f rom abroad were allowed to import without a license was reduced f rom LE 100 to LE 50. Exempt from this measure were, among others, nationals per- mitted to work abroad (provided they had stayed abroad for at least a yea r) and those employed in Egyptian embassies. May 1. A wide range of imported consumer goods henceforth could be purchased by Egyptian citizens only in public sector retail stores. May 10 (effective May 3 1 ). The premium granted on the conversion of specified foreign currencies by Egyptian citizens was increased f rom 35 per cent to approximately 50 per cent; the U. S. dollar rate for this purpose was changed to US$1 = LE 0.65, equiva- lent to LE 1 = US$1.54. The facility was available for ( 1) amounts surrendered by debit to Foreign Currency External Accounts of Egyptian Citizens or Foreign Currency Resident Accounts of Egyptian Citizens and (2) foreign currency savings of Egyptian nationals not holding such accounts, if accumulated in the form of banknotes or other bank payments instruments, when the currencies involved were Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Saudi Arabian riyals, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, or U. S. dollars. Quotations for banknotes in certain other "acceptable" currencies could be obtained from the Per- manent Committee for Foreign Banknotes. Prescribed net buy ing rates were set for each of these currencies. Banks were not allowed to charge the public a commis- sion on their purchases at these rates. The facility was limited to the savings surrendered net of the percentages of earnings f rom various activities that had to be repa- triated and surrendered at the US$2.30 rate. May 30. The pocket money allowance for Egyptian nationals leaving on foreign travel was increased from 158 LE 15 a person a tr ip to <£ stg. 30 or the equivalent in other convertible currencies. May 31. The exchange rate for the conversion of specified foreign currencies by foreign nationals was changed to US$1 = LE 0.65, equivalent to LE 1 = US$1.54. Thus, the premium granted was increased f rom 35 per cent to approximately 50 per cent. The facility was available for ( 1) bank transfers, travelers checks, and banknotes converted to cover local expendi- tures by fore ign tourists and by other foreign nationals holding an en try visa for purposes other than study or residence for more than three months and (2) similar conversions by Syrian and Libyan nationals exempt f rom entry visa ( for visits not exceeding six mon ths ). The Egyptian pound equivalent could also be used, up to LE 100 a person, for purchases of goods to be taken out by the traveler. Buy ing rates were announced for the U. S. dollar and 15 other convertible currencies; fur thermore, quotations for banknotes denominated in certain other "acceptable" currencies could be obtained f rom the Permanent Committee for Foreign Banknotes. All of these rates were identical to those applicable to the conversion of savings of Egyptian nationals (see May 10, above ). Banks were instructed not to charge the public a commission when buying foreign currency at these rates. Reconversion by foreign travelers of any excess Egyptian pounds also was to take place at these exchange rates, again free of commission. May 31. The purposes were specified for which foreign currency purchased by banks at incentive rates (under the above-mentioned regulations of May 10 and 31) could be sold to the public. Selling rates were set for the 16 convertible currencies, which included a commission added to the buy ing rate, and special sell- ing rates for certain other currencies were announced by the Permanent Committee for Foreign Banknotes; sales at these rates were free of the 5 per cent transfer tax. The purposes for which banks could sell foreign currency at these rates were ma in ly limited to ( 1) the pocket money allowance (equivalent to <£ stg. 30) for Egyptian citizens traveling abroad; (2) payments or transfers up to LE 75 (inclusive of the pocket money allowance) to residents obtaining an exit visa for "tourism for old age" or for a visit to a fam i ly member studying abroad; ( 3) payments or transfers up to LE 75 (inclusive of pocket money) for attendance of con- ferences; (4) payment of subscriptions to academic books and periodicals, certain membership dues, and correspondence courses, subject in each case to an annual limit of LE 50 a person or for each private sector unit ( <£ stg. 100 for university professors); and (5) payment of travel tickets for immigrants returning to Egypt, as well as tickets for their return abroad. On August 10, the use of these funds was also permitted for the financing of import operations covered by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ministerial Decree No. 653 of 1972 (see th ird Ju ly 1 entry, be low). June 26. Following the f loa t ing of sterling, exchange rates for s ter l ing and other convertible currencies were based on New York quo ta t ions. The buy ing and selling rates under the incen t ive scheme of May 31 were not affected. July 1. Nonresident fore ign nationals granted an en try visa were required to exchange for Egyptian pounds at least <£ stg. 30 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies; exemptions included diplomatic per- sonnel, persons studying in Egypt, and tourist groups whose local expenditures were covered by approved group transfers. Upon leav ing Egypt, such persons could reconvert their Egyp t ian pound holdings only a f ter deduc t ion of the equivalent of <£ stg. 5 for every night spent in Egypt. July 1. The adm in is tra t ion of exchange control was reorganized. The bank ing system was authorized to perform all executive operations relating to foreign exchange. Within the f ramewo rk of this authorization, banks could make payments abroad without having to obtain specific exchange control approval. Similarly, exchange control approval for licensed exports ceased to be required; the collection and surrender of export proceeds hencefor th was supervised by the banks. The National Bank of Egypt took over all bank ing opera- tions related to foreign t rade transactions of the public sector. July 1. Decree No. 653 abolished the facility allow- ing private sector enterprises to import certain goods "without the use of foreign exchange." Such imports of EGYPT raw materials, sem imanu fac tu res, and spare parts for the private sector, as well as agr icu l tural machinery and transpor ta t ion equ ipmen t, hence fo r th could be financed by special foreign exchange allocations derived f rom f u n ds resulting f rom the application of the incentive rates. Thus, the e f fec t ive exchange rate for such imports became LE 1 = US$1.54. September 10. The President issued legislation accord- ing Libyan physical and juridical persons the right to own ag r icu l tu ral land in Egypt. September 12. Payments for imports henceforth could be made on ly to the country of origin, unless special authorization to the contrary was obtained. September 18. Agreement was reached on the estab- lishment of a political and economic union with the L ibyan A rab Republic. October 3. A preferential trade agreement with the EEC was signed, to come into effect on January 1, 1973. December 15. A bilateral trade and payments arrange- ment with Bangladesh was signed. It came into effect immediately. December 20. Exporters of movies and phonograph records were allowed to retain their convertible cur- rency export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Egypt. Foreign cur- rency held in such accounts could be used by the holder, subject to import license, to import goods required in his profession. Alternatively, the holder could sell such foreign currency to an authorized bank at the incentive rates for convertible currencies (cor- responding to LE 1 = US$1.54). 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.327405 gram of fine gold per Salvadoran Colon, corresponding to 0 2.71429 = SDR 1 or 0 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador for transactions with the pub- lic are 0 2.49 buying, and 0 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or w i th in these limits. A stamp tax of l/w of 1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange as well as drafts and other documents embody ing a right to exchange; on amoun ts below 0 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amoun ts that may be slightly in excess of VLQ of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is exercised by the Cen- tral Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Depart- men t. Au thor i ty to approve certain payments is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports are issued by the Exchange Control Department. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Exports of a number of commodities requ ire licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy or of Agr icu l ture. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Salvadoran Coffee Company and require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N ica ragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles must be settled in the currenc ies of those coun tr ies or in Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Compen- sation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of the ir coun tr ies. Pay- ments to Mexico are also settled through the clearing- house. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited d ip loma t ic missions and other foreign ins t i- tutions or persons established in El Salvador may be au thor ized to hold nonres ident accounts in U. S. dollars with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with fore ign exchange received f rom abroad. The accoun ts of non res iden ts may be u t i l ized f ree ly, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movemen ts on such accounts.1 * Following the announcement on F eb ru a ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. do l lar was being deva lued, El Salvador ma in ta ined the existing ra te of £ 2.50 = US$1. 1 Add i t ional fac i l i t ies for the open ing of non res ident accoun ts in fo re ign currencies, as well as res ident accounts in fo re ign currencies, were created on Feb rua ry 15, 1973. 160 Imports and Import Payments Imports from all countries must be registered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed. Import licenses are required for airplanes, firearms, ammuni- tion, military equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, jute sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Payments and t rans fe rs abroad require exchange licenses, which are granted freely, provided that the terms of payment do not exceed a certain maxi- mum (counted from the date of entry of the merchan- dise into a customs wa rehouse ): (1) Imports of raw materials for indus try, iron and steel products for the construction indus try, various spare parts, greases, and lubricants are authorized by the Exchange Control Department when the terms of payment do not exceed three years.2 (2) Imports of staple food products, medicinal products, and medical and surgical supplies must be paid for within one year.3 Imports of the fol- lowing goods are not subject to max imum credit terms: machinery and equ ipment for agriculture and industry, semiprocessed goods for indus tr ial production, surgical equipment, research and educational equipment, scien- tific and technical books, fertilizers, and insecticides. A prior import deposit in local currency, equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, is applied to specified nonessential food products, confectionery, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, perfumes, cosmetics, watches, and jewelry. Small businesses are exempt from this requ iremen t. All goods not mentioned previously in this paragraph may be imported only against pay- ments before customs clearance. Imports f rom countries outside the Central American Common Market that apply discriminatory restrictions against exports from El Salvador also must be paid for before customs clearance. The commercial banks are authorized to provide exchange for import payments not exceeding US$10,000 for impor ts from Central Amer ican countries and US$2,000 for imports from all other countries; larger amounts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank.4 When suppliers abroad request payment in advance for commodities valued at over US$500, a prior deposit of 10 per cent calculated on the value of the advance payment is required f rom the impor ter as a guarantee, but indus tr ial and agricultural firms may be 2 Four yea rs when the goods or ig ina te in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in 1970, from which it receives loans w i th a ma tu r i ty of at least 20 years, or with which an in tegra t ion trea ty is in force or with which El Salvador maintains other economic ties. 3 Eighteen months when the goods originate in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in 1970, from which it receives loans with a m a t u r i ty of at least 20 years, or with which an in tegra t ion trea ty is in force or with which El Salvador maintains other economic ties. 4 Central bank approval ceased to be required when the regulations concerning import payments were liberalized on February 15, 1973. The commercial banks were authorized to provide exchange for all impo rt paymen ts, w i thout re fe r r ing to the central bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exempted. The deposit requirement is 100 per cent for goods valued at over US$500 that are subject to the 100 per cent prior import deposit; the latter may be used to f inance the deposit on the advance payment. These regulations are also applicable to goods imported f rom other countries of the Central American Common Market. Guarantee deposits are re funded when the goods arrive in the coun t ry, provided that payment in fu ll has been made to the exporter. Imports from Panama that are covered by the Free Trade Agreement with that country and imports made by small traders and industrial producers (up to US$500 for each order and up to US$6,000 a y e a r5 for each importer) are exempt f rom the ruling exchange control regulations. Imports or ig ina t ing outside the Central Ame r ican Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty; the surcharge is not applied to certain industrial equipment and raw materials that are du ty free by virtue of the Industrial Incentives Law. Payments for Invisibles Payments for cu r rent invisibles requ ire exchange licenses, which are gran ted freely for most items, although for cer ta in payments only up to specified limits. Permission to purchase exchange for travel outside the Central Amer ican area ( in te rp re ted to mean the Central American Common Ma rke t) for tourism, business, or health reasons is granted by the Exchange Control Department f ree f rom deposit requ i remen ts up to the equivalent of US$600 a person a t r ip, on the basis of US$50 a person a day (US$300 for children under 16 on the basis of US$25 a d a y ) ;G for amoun ts in excess of US$600 a person a trip, up to an additional US$1,500 ( f or amoun ts in excess of US$300, up to an additional US$750 for ch i ldren under 16), a 10 per cent guaran tee deposit in local cu r rency must be lodged with the Cen- tral Reserve Bank, which is released upon the traveler's re tu rn .7' 8 The Depar tment also generally authorizes t ran s fe rs of up to US$150 a month, for up to six months, to each adult Salvadoran with pe rmanent resi- dence a b r o a d ;9 larger amoun ts may be authorized when the need the re for is shown. S tuden ts also are allowed US$150 a month ,10 in add i t ion to an in s t a l l a t ion allow- ance, t u i t i o n, and o ther expenses. For n a t ion a ls t r av e l ing to C en t r al Am e r i c an coun t r ies, • Inc reased to US$15,000 on F e b r u a ry 15, 1973. G Increased on F eb ru a ry 15, 1973 to US$2,100 a pe rson a t r ip, on the basis of US$70 a day, for persons 16 yea rs of age or o ld e r, and to US$1,050 a person a t r ip, at US$35 a day, for ch i ld r en. 7 Exchange up to the equ iva lent of US$500 (in excess of US$600) for specific clinic or hosp i tal expenses abroad is exempt f r om the guaran tee deposit requ i remen t. These amoun ts were inc reased to US$3,000 and US$2,100 on F eb ru a ry 15, 1973. 8 The amounts exempt f rom the deposit r e q u i r em e nt were on Febru- ary 15, 1973 increased to US$2,100 a person a t r i p, up to an add i- tional US$4,200 (US$1,050, up to an add i t ional US$2,100, for ch i ldren under 16). 9 Increased on February 15, 1973 to US$400 a mon th for persons 16 years of age or older, and to US$200 a mon th for ch i ld ren, in each case for up to 12 mon ths. "Increased on February 15, 1973 to US$300 a mon th, for up to 12 months. EL SALVADOR the commercial banks have been delegated authority to provide exchange as follows: for travel to Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua, the equivalent of 0 500 a trip in Costa Rican colones, lempiras, or cordobas; for travel to Guatemala, Guatemalan currency notes up to Q 1,000 a trip, or a cashier's check in Salvadoran colones up to the equivalent of 0 2,500 a trip (for pay- ment in Guatemala through the Camara de Compensa- cion Centroamericana) .1T Requests for larger amounts must be submitted to the Cen tral Reserve Bank. Inter- national sea and air passages are subject to a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the ticket; official or diplomatic travel is exempt. Insurance and reinsurance p rem iums may be paid for in foreign exchange, provided that the insu rance con- tract was registered w i th the Exchange Control Depart- ment at the t ime it took effec t. Alternatively, insurance companies may receive p rem iums in colones and peri- odically obtain from the Exchange Control Department authorization to purchase the foreign currencies they are obliged to t ran s fer abroad. Foreign currencies derived f rom insurance or reinsurance contracts must be surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may take out 0 200 in domestic notes and coins. This l im it is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a number of food s tu f fs and other items of which the authorities w ish to ensu re an adequate local supply, but the pro- ceeds of all exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surren- dered to the Central Reserve B ank or an authorized commercial b ank. Export t ransac t ions must be declared to the Exchange Con trol Depar tment w i t h in 15 days of sh ipmen t. The collection terms no rma l ly must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Depar tmen t. With the exception of sales to "new ma rke t s ," exports of coffee are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surren- dered to the Cen t ral Reserve Bank or an authorized commerc ial b a n k. Travelers may b r ing in 0 200 in domes t ic notes and co ins. This l im it is subject to modi- f i c a t ion, however, to fac i l i ta te border t rade w i th other Cen t ral Ame r ican coun t r ies. Capital A ll exchange rece ip ts resu l t ing f rom cap i tal t ransac- t ions mu st be su r r end e r ed. P aym en ts abroad represent- 11 On February 15, 1973 the delegated au tho r i ty was increased to the equ iva lent of US$2,100 (US$1,050 for ch i ldren under 16) in Costa R ican colones, Hondu ran lempiras, N ica raguan cordobas, or Guate- ma lan que tza les, or a cashier's check in Salvadoran colones (for pay- ment th rough the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana). 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR ing cap i tal movemen ts requ i re exchange l icenses; such licenses a re not g r a n t ed for re s iden t -owned cap i tal except for i n v e s tm e n ts in Costa R ica, Gu a t em a l a, Hondu r a s, and N i c a r a g u a. The e n t ry of cap i tal in the fo rm of fo r- e ign i n v e s tm e nt may be registered w i th the M i n i s t ry of Economy. Reg i s t ra t ion ensures ( 1) f r ee rem i t tance of net p ro f i ts on f o r e i gn cap i tal inves ted in i n d u s t r i al en ter- prises, en te rp r i ses engaged in the e x t r a c t i on of non re- n ew ab le n a t u r al resources, and e n t e r p r i s es in the sphere of tou r i sm; (2) the rem i t tance of net p ro f i ts of enterprises engaged in other ac t iv i t ies up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of the registered cap i tal ( l a rg er am o u n ts may be au tho r ized in special cases by the M i n i s t ry of Economy ); ( 3) repa t r ia t ion of the proceeds f r om the to tal or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of the en te rp r ise ( a f t er p a ym e nt of taxes) in p ropo r t ion to the p a r t i c i p a t i on of fo re ign cap i tal in the to tal cap i ta l; (4) r em i t t a n ce of the sa les proceeds of shares and other i n s t r um e n ts rep re sen t ing i n v e s tm e n ts or pa r t ic ipa t ion s, i n c l u d i ng cap i tal g a in s; and (5) w i th respect to loans, interest and amo r t iza t ion as determined at the t ime of reg is tra t ion. In the cases under (3) and (4) there is requ ired, in add i t ion to the app roval of the Exchange Con trol Depa r tmen t, the p r ior app roval of the M in i s t ry of Economy. Foreign inves tmen ts made in El Salvador pr ior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the M i n i s t ry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department in order to e n j oy the same fac i l i t ie s. The Exchange Control Depa r tment au thor izes, w i thout restriction, the remittance abroad of fore ign currency for the payment of in terest and amo r t iza t ion on short- term loans f rom abroad that have been approved by and registered w i th the Exchange Control Depa r tmen t. The Central Reserve Bank con t ro ls the shor t- term fo r e ign liabilities of the comme rc ial banks th rough a system of ind iv idual quotas. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets cer ta in m in i- mum capital requ iremen ts for businesses that are owned by foreign na t iona ls and for those in wh i ch fore ign na t iona ls have a shareho ld ing interest. For purposes of this Decree, fo re ign n a t ion a ls are def ined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five coun t r ies of the Cen- tral Ame r ican Common Marke t. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acqu i re gold co ins in El Sa lvador for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th this excep t ion, res iden ts o ther t h an the mon e t a ry au tho r i t ies and author- ized i n d u s t r i al users are not a l lowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm o ther t h an jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Impo r ts and expo r ts of gold in any f o rm other than j ew e l ry requ ire licenses issued by the Cen t ral Reserve B a n k; such licenses a re not n o rm a l ly g ran ted except for im p o r ts and expo r ts by or on beha lf of the mon e t a ry au tho r i t i es and i n d u s t r i al users. In prac t ice, impo r ts of nonmon e t a ry u nw o r k ed gold are made only by a jew- elers' cooperative acting on behalf of its members and other users. Changes during 1972 March 7. Certain impor ts by small businesses were exempted f r om the p r ior import deposit requirements. April 4. Impor ts f r om countries outside the Central Ame r ican Common Market which impose discrimina- tory restrictions on impo r ts f r om El Salvador were made sub ject to payment before customs clearance. May 8. The par v a lue was changed f rom 0.355468 gram of fine gold per colon to 0.327405 gram of fine gold. The exchange rate of the U. S. dollar was main- tained unchanged at 0 2.50 = US$1. September. The export tax on coffee was waived un t il Janua ry 31, 1973 for exports f rom the 1971/72 crop to new markets. September 22. Exports of cattle on the hoof were suspended. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA Exchange Rate System * The cu r r en cy of E q u a t o r i al G u i n ea is the Equ a to r i al G u i n e an Peseta, wh ich is issued by the Cen t ral B ank of the Repub l ic of Equa to r ial G u i n ea and is de f ined as equ iva lent to 0.0126953 g r am of f ine gold. No par va lue has been es tab l ished for the E q u a t o r i al G u i n e an peseta. The cu r r en cy is at par w i th the Span ish peseta, which is Equa to r ial Gu inea 's in t e rv en t ion cu r r en cy. Rates for o ther cu r renc ies are based on those in the Madrid exchange m a rk e t. The e f f e c t ive p a r i ty re la t ion- ship for the U . S. d o l l ar is EG Ptas 64.4737 = US$1. There are no fo rw a rd exchange f a c i l i t i e s. Exchange taxes of 17.5 per cent, 25 per cent, and 35 per cent are levied on cer ta in t r a n s f e rs abroad. Administration of Control The Central B ank is in charge of exchange con tro l. Exchange t ransac t ions mu st be carried out th rough the Central Bank or au tho r ized comme rc ial banks abroad; the on ly au tho r ized bank is the N a t ion al Deposit and D ev e lopm ent Bank. Im p o rt and export licenses are issued by the D irec tora te-General of For- eign Commerce in the M i n i s t ry of Commerce; import licenses also requ ire the app roval of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th Spain must be made th rough pay- men ts ag reement accounts denom ina ted in U. S. dollars. Settlements w i th other coun t r ies are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports requ i re an import license. Licenses no rma l ly are issued w i t h in the f r am ewo rk of an annual impo rt program. They do not en t i t le importers to the necessary foreign exchange un t il they have been approved by the Cen tral Bank, a f ter which the exchange is automatically made ava i lab le. Licenses for imports f rom Spain usually have a va l id i ty of three months, and those for other coun tr ies a va l id i ty of six months. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for cu r rent inv is ib les require the prior approval of the Cen t ral Bank, wh ich for specified pur- poses and up to specified amoun ts has delegated its approval au tho r i ty to the au thor ized comme rc ial bank. R e s id en t sx are granted fore ign exchange up to the equ iva lent of EG Ptas 10,000 a person a ca lendar year for tourist travel abroad. The s tandard allocation for * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the gold content of the Equa tor ial Guinean peseta was ma in ta ined unchanged and the currency remained at par w i th the Spanish peseta. 1 Res iden ts are def ined as persons rema in ing in Equa tor ial Gu inea for more than six mon ths in a calendar year or for more than six months in two consecutive calendar years. business travel is the equ iva lent of EG Ptas 2,000 a per- son a day, sub ject to a m a x im um of EG Ptas 50,000 a t r ip. For s tudy abroad, fo re ign exchange is g ran ted to cover tu i t ion and l i v i ng expenses; nonboa rd ing students are allowed the e q u i v a l e nt of EG Ptas 5,000 a month for l iv ing expenses. The t r a n s f er of wages and sa la r ies by a l ien residents, and of p ro fe s s ional e a r n i n gs as well as dividends by all res iden ts, is f r e e ly pe rm i t ted up to 60 per cent of taxab le e a r n i n gs when the t r a n s f er is made to a country with which a paymen ts agreement is in force, and up to 40 per cent for other coun t r ie s, provided that a n n u al earn ings do not exceed EG Ptas 50,000. Larger trans- fers are pe rm i t ted when a n n u al earnings exceed EG Ptas 50,000. T rans fe rs abroad of profess ional earn- ings by nonres iden ts are f r e e ly permitted, but any amoun ts in excess of 60 per cent of taxab le earn ings are subject to a t r a n s f er tax of 35 per cent on the amount t ran s fe r red. There are special arrangements for the t r an s f er of ea rn ings of N ig e r i an workers employed in Equa to r ial Gu in e a. In add i t ion, nonresi- den ts as we ll as n a t i o n a ls res id ing tempo ra r i ly abroad are permitted to w i thd raw up to EG Ptas 5,000 a mon th f rom the ir savings accounts for remittance abroad. The t rans fer of net investment income, whether by residents or nonres iden ts, is subject to a tax of 35 per cent of the am o u nt t ran s fe r red. Subject to this require- ment t r an s f e rs are f u l ly permitted. In the event of at least 50 per cent of such net investment income being reinvested in approved projects in Equatorial Guinea, the tax is 17.5 per cent of the amount remitted. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, and royalties are perm i t ted f u l l y, subject to a tax of 25 per cent of the amount remitted. Travelers may take out EG Ptas 3,000 a person in domestic bankno tes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Both specific and general export licenses are granted; the latter are available only to registered exporters. All export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank or the authorized commercial bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surren- dered to the Central Bank or the authorized commer- cial bank. Travelers may bring in any amount of fore ign banknotes and coins but the import of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval. Capital receipts in foreign currency must be surrend- 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA ered to the Central Bank or the authorized commercial bank. The transfer abroad of funds from the sale of fixed assets and financial assets by alien residents or by nonresidents is permitted as follows: 50 per cent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immediately and the balance in 24 equal monthly installments. The sale of real estate, however, requires prior approval by the Government. Residents, as well as nonresidents l iv ing in Equatorial Guinea, are prohibited from engaging in borrowing or lending with nonresidents. Gold All purchases and sales of m in ted gold and gold bars are centralized in the Central Bank, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1970 in denominations of EG Ptas 250, EG Ptas 500, EG Ptas 750, EG Ptas 1,000, and EG Ptas 5,000; these are legal tender. Except for these coins and jewelry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1972 January 3. The tariff preferences accorded to Spain were terminated. Previously, all goods of Spanish origin were exempt from customs duty. March 7. A circular issued to implement Decree-Law No. 1/1970 set out regulations pertaining to transfers abroad of various types of income. The transfer of all rents from real estate was prohibited. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethiopian Dollar, corresponding to Eth$2.50 = SDR 1 or Eth$2.30263 = US$1. Ethiopia has availed itself of wider margins, and the intervention currency is the U .S. dollar. The official rates on December 30, 1972 were Eth$2.28536 buying, and Eth$2.35444 selling, per US$1. The National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) does not deal with the public; authorized banks in dealing with the public must observe the official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar. Their spot exchange rates for other currencies are based on the rates against the U. S. dollar in the London exchange market. Authorized banks may freely undertake for- ward exchange transactions. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks and authorized dealers under the control of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Con- troller, whose office is a department of the National Bank; all exports are licensed by the Exchange Con- troller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds. The Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism has statutory authority to apply quantitative restrictions on imports, but has not invoked this authority. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U. S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a fore ign currency that is free ly convertible, or in any other fore ign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold nonresident accounts either in Ethiopian dollars or in fo re ign currencies at au thor ized banks. Balances in these accounts may be freely trans- ferred abroad. Transfers between nonres ident accounts require prior app rova l, except those between fore ign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Por tuga l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. No impo rt licenses are required. However, paymen ts abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are g ran ted free ly in the cu r rency * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 t h at the U. S. do l lar was being deva lued, E th iop ia m a i n t a i n ed its exchange rate in terms of gold. The off ic ial rate for the U. S. dollar became Eth$2.07248. appropriate to the country of origin, or in any converti- ble currency that may be requested, but advance pay- ment for imports is not permitted. Goods ordered through a third country must be supported by evidence of original cost. Payment is normally authorized by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight or on an acceptance basis; however, goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly con- sumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may remit up to 35 per cent of their salaries or annual taxable earned income, provided that they have resided in Ethiopia for less than six years; this time limit does not apply to foreign nationals who are in contractual service with the Ethiopian Government, with an autonomous government organization, or with certain private ins titutions, and who have an employ- ment contract specifically en t i t l ing them to remit a stated percentage of the ir earnings. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for mainte- nance of bona fide dependents, education of children, medical care, and prem iums on insurance policies taken out before April 2, 1962. Subject to proper provision hav ing been made for local taxation and for a reserve prescribed by the Commercial Code, foreign companies may remit dividends on the ir invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Persons trave l ing abroad are allowed fore ign exchange equivalent to Eth$75 a day for a max imum period of six weeks in any one calendar year if the jou rney is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$600 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$420 a year for those under 16 if the journey is made for pleasure. Travelers may take with them a max imum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All commodities require export licenses and some require in addition the approval of specified public bodies. When app ly ing for a license, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. The gran t ing of the license by the Ex- change Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the Na- tional Bank within six months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Proceeds from Invisibles Fore ign exchange receipts f r om inv i s ib l es must be su r r end e r ed. Pe rsons may b r i ng in a m a x im um of E th$100 in E t h i o p i an b ankno t e s. Fo r e ign ex ch ange need not be dec la red by t r av e l e rs on e n t r y, and i ts re-export is f ree ly pe rm i t ted. Capital A ll receipts of cap i tal in the f o rm of f o r e i gn exchange must be su r rende red. There is no d i s c r im i n a t i on rega rd- ing the cu r renc ies in w h i ch f o r e i gn i n v e s tm e n ts a re accepted. Special concess ions are made to app roved new en terpr ises f inanced by dome s t ic or f o r e i gn c a p i t a l; these concessions i n c l u de exemp t ion f rom taxes for a period of five yea rs, adm i s s ion of all im p o r ts of m a c h i n- ery f ree of d u t y, and a gu a r an t ee of pe rm iss ion to fo r- e ign inves tors to remit abroad earned p ro f i ts a f t er taxa- t ion. Upon l i q u i d a t i o n, t r a n s f er of the e n t i re impo r t ed capital and re inves ted p ro f i ts is p e rm i t t ed in any cu r- rency. Foreign physical or ju r id i c al persons requ ire government perm iss ion to pu rchase land in E th iop ia; such permission is not no rma l ly withheld. T rans fe rs of emigrants' allowances, legacies, and savings of fo r- eign employees upon retirement are pe rm i t ted up to the equ iva lent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Sums in excess of this amount are authorized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subsequent 12-month period. Borrowing abroad requ i res exchange con trol app roval and is res tr ic ted. Ex te rnal b o r r ow i ng by the Cen t ral Government and pub l ic sector agencies requ i res par l ia- men tary app rova l, as does p r iva te sector bo r row ing abroad when covered by a gove rnment gua ran tee. Authorized banks may f ree ly place the ir f u n ds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit. They need the prior ap- proval of the Na t ional Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to borrow f u n ds abroad, or to accept deposits in fore ign currency. Gold Residents may hold and acqu ire in Ethiopia gold coins of a special commemo ra t ive issue, as provided in Legal Notice No. 318 of 1966 and Legal Notice No. 422 of 1972; such coins are legal tender and are offered for sale by the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia to residents and nonresidents and may be exported by travelers. The owne rsh ip of pe rsonal jewe l ry and articles of adorn- ment of wh i ch gold or p l a t i n um fo rms a pa rt also is perm i t ted. Unless spec if ica l ly au thor ized by the Minister of Mines, the possession or custody, in a quan t i ty in excess of 50 ounces, of raw or refined gold or p la t inum or of gold or p l a t inum in the f o rm of nuggets, ores, or bu l l ion cons t i tu tes an offense. Certain mined gold is sold by the T reasu ry to the Na t ional Bank at a price slightly below US$38 an ounce. Impo r ts and exports of gold in any fo rm o ther th an jewe l ry requ ire exchange licenses issued by or on beha lf of the M in is t ry of Mines. Such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for impo r ts and exports by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and i n d u s t r i al users; those for the import of gold for indus tr ial purposes are issued to registered importers by the Na t ional Bank on behalf of the Minis- try of Mines. Changes during 1972 July 2. It was announced that importers would be required to present to customs (in addition to the exchange license, the invoice, and the shipping docu- ments) a signed manu fac tu re r 's price list. This regula- tion, however, did not come into effect. July 6. The transac t ion tax on imports was increased f rom 12 per cent to 15 per cent ad valorem. July 20. Legal Notice No. 422 provided for the issue of add i t ional commemorative gold coins. These would be legal tender. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI Exchange Rate System * F i ji has not yet es tab l ished a par v a l ue for its cur- rency, the Fiji Do l l a r, w i th the Fund. A f ixed relation- ship be tween the F i ji do l lar and the pound sterling, the in t e rv en t ion c u r r e n c y, is m a i n t a i n ed at <£ stg. 1 — F$1 .98. As a r e su l t, all exchange t ran sac t ions except those in s t e r l i ng and cu r r en c i es d i r e c t ly linked to ster- l ing t ake place at fluctuating ra tes. For telegraphic t ran s fe r s, the b ank s' b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U. S. do l lar on December 3 1, 1972 we re F$ 1.1934 and F$ 1.1692, respec t ive ly. F i ji f o rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, on August 4, 1972. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol is adm in i s t e r ed by the Minister of Finance ope ra t ing as the Exchange Con trol Au tho r i ty, who delegates to au tho r i z ed dea le rs (on ly banks are au thor ized dea lers in F i j i) the a u t h o r i ty to approve no rmal im p o rt p a ym e n t s. Except w i th the specific per- mission of the M i n i s t ry of Finance, res iden ts of Fiji are requ ired to o f fer for sale to an authorized dealer all fo re ign currenc ies they receive.1 The Ministry of Commerce, Indu s t ry, and Cooperatives is responsible for the issue of impo rt licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Comp t ro l ler of Customs. Prescription of Currency Fiji has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under cu r rent U. K. exchange con trol regulations continues to be regarded as a coun try of the Overseas Sterling Area. Se t t lemen ts w i th residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made free ly in any Sterling Area currency, inc lud ing Ex ternal Account sterling. Pay- ments f r om Fiji to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Payments by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to residents of Fiji may be made in any cu r rency, but the prescribed manner of payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling Area is payment in Fiji currency f rom an External Account in the Sterling Area or in any foreign currency. All payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Fiji distinguishes between two classes of "residents" for exchange control purposes —a resident of Fiji and a resident of any coun try outside Fiji. A resident of * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the fixed relationship of £ stg. 1 = F$1.98 was maintained and the Fiji dollar continued to float with sterling. 1 Under F i j i's exchange control regulations, fo re ign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. Fiji is a person who either has lived or in tends to live in F i ji for a period of at least three years. The bank accounts in F i ji of residents are designated resident accounts. A non r e s id ent is a person whose coun t ry of estab- lished residence is a c o u n t ry ou ts ide Fiji. A nonresident may m a i n t a in an Ex te rnal Account in Fiji currency or a fo re ign cu r r en cy account w i th an authorized bank; such accoun ts may be opened w i thout the specific approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th interest payable on the account, p a ym e n ts f rom other Ex ternal Accounts, the proceeds of sales of fore ign c u r r e n cy by the account holder, and F i ji cu r r en cy which the account holder brought in to Fiji or acqu ired w i th foreign currency in the coun t ry d u r i ng a tempo ra ry visit. In addition, Ex te rnal Accounts may be credited w i th payments by residents for which e i ther a general or specific author- ity has been given. Ex te rnal Accoun ts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other Ex ternal Accounts, paymen ts in cash in Fiji, and pur- chases of fo re ign exchange for t ravel purposes. Foreign currency accoun ts are conduc ted on a basis similar to External Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports f r om Rhodesia are prohibited, and imports originating in mainland China and the CMEA countries - require ind iv idual licenses. Imports of most goods are free under open general license when origi- nating in countries other than those mentioned. How- ever, import prohibitions are imposed on a few com- modities f rom all sources, ma in ly for security, health, or moral reasons. Certain commodities can be imported only under specific licenses, including butter, matches, cement, and gold. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documen tary evidence to authorized dealers. A specific exchange license is not required. Authorized banks may authorize payments for goods which have been imported either under a specific import license or open general license. Author- ized banks may authorize advance payments for imports only if the goods have a lready left the port of shipment; in all other cases advance payment requires the per- mission of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in any country (except Rhodesia) are permitted either under a dele- gated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application 2 The open general license lists the countries to which it is not applicable as Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, and U. S. S. R. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI to the Ministry of Finance. Payments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Residents of Fiji traveling to other countries are entitled to a foreign currency travel allowance for private or busi- ness travel up to the equivalent of F$500 a journey. In addition, each traveler may take with him F$1003 in Fiji currency, and the equivalent of F$200 in other currencies. Any additional foreign currency required for travel purposes is granted on application to the Ministry of Finance, provided the Ministry is satisfied that the additional amount is required to meet genuine travel expenditures. Travelers may not take out more than F$1003 in domestic currency notes and F$l in domestic coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are obliged to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exportation of the goods f rom Fiji, irrespective of the currency in which the payment is being made. All foreign curren- cies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Exporters may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Specific licenses are required only for the export to countries outside the Sterling Area of lumber and a few other items, includ- ing pearl shell and turtle shell. Irrespective of any export licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$ 1,000 and for private consignment of goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$2,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers, irrespective of the currency con- cerned. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes, other Sterling Area currencies, or non- Sterling area currencies. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies to an authorized dealer within 30 days of return. Capital The inf low of capital is unrestricted. Foreign invest- ment in Fiji norma l ly is expected to be financed from a nonres ident source. Such fore ign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital transfers by resi- dents to finance direct inves tmen ts requ ire the specific permission of the M in is try of Finance and are nor- mally pe rm i t ted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji 3 Reduced to F$50 with effect from May 1, 1973. 168 within a reasonably short term. The transfer of inherit- ances and dowries which are due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the sales proceeds of a house owned by a nonresident. Residents of Fiji are also allowed to make cash gifts equivalent to F$500 a year to nonresidents; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out all their assets, whether their destination is inside or outside the Sterling Area. Residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency to acquire foreign currency securities without the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. The pur- chase of personal real property outside Fiji is not per- mitted. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents is permitted, provided that payment is made from a non- resident source; the proceeds of the sale or realization of such investment qualify for repatriation. Gold Residents may freely hold gold coins, but not gold bullion, in Fiji. The export of gold coins and bullion requires the specific permission of the Ministry of Finance. Gold imports f rom all sources require a spe- cific import license issued by the Ministry of Com- merce, Industry, and Cooperatives; they are restricted to authorized gold dealers and are subject to a 25 per cent duty when of Commonwealth origin or 50 per cent when of other origin. Gold jewelry may be imported free of du ty f rom Commonwealth sources (the duty is 25 per cent for other sources) and does not require any license when valued at less than F$200. Authorized jewelry manufacturers are entitled to rebate to the extent of duty paid on gold imports if they prove that imported gold has been manufactured into jewelry in Fiji. Exports of gold jewelry do not require licenses and are free of export duty. All newly mined gold is sold in Australia at free market prices. Changes during 1972 June 23. Fiji ceased to be a Scheduled Territory for purposes of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. June 23. Exchange transactions were suspended. They were resumed on June 26. June 26. Fiji maintained the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and the pound sterling unchanged at £, stg. 1 = F$2.09. As a result, the cur- rency began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for which had been US$1 - F$0.802085. June 29. Exchange control was extended to the Ster- ling Area. It was stated that there was no intention, however, to restrict current payments. The basic travel allowance for travel to any overseas country was set at F$500. Henceforth all outward direct investment and all purchases of overseas securities would require prior approval, but where such approval was obtained, for- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FDI eign exchange would be made available at official mar- ket rates of exchange. (Previously, direct investments did not require approval when made in the Sterling Area as defined prior to June 23, 1972. Purchases of non-Sterling Area securities required prior approval of the Ministry of Finance.) Local registered foreign com- panies and local companies controlled by overseas resi- dents could not borrow in Fiji without the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Direct investment in Fiji and the purchase of shares in locally registered companies by overseas residents became subject to con- trol also when the investor was a resident of the Ster- ling Area as defined prior to June 23, 1972. Fijian banks would generally be able to continue to provide credit within their existing commitments to overseas residents. The procedures applying to transfers of emi- grants' funds to non-Sterling Area countries now applied to transfers to any country. The normal limit on cash gifts was changed to F$500 a donor a year and became applicable to all countries. The purchase of private property in Sterling Area countries became subject to control. Exports to the Sterling Area became subject to license, and their proceeds had to be paid into a bank in Fiji. Foreign currencies were redefined as all currencies other than the Fiji dollar; previously the term denoted non-Sterling Area currencies only. August 4. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. October 25. The fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and the pound sterling was changed from £ stg. 1 = F$2.09 to <£ stg. 1 = F$1.98. The Fiji dol- lar continued to float with sterling. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.211590 gram of fine gold per Fin- n ish Ma rkka. The central rate is Fmk 4.10000 = US$1, corresponding to Fmk 4.19997 = SDR 1, and Finland has availed itself of wider marg ins. The Bank of Finland's official buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. do l la r, the in te rven t ion currency, va ry w i th in a range of Fmk 4.008-4.192 per U. S. do l la r; on Decem- ber 29, 1972 they were Fmk 4.160 and Fmk 4.178 per US$1. The ma rket rates for the U . S. dollar are applicable also to c lear ing dollars. Ma rket rates for certain other currencies l va ry between l im i ts which result f rom comb in ing the off ic ial limits for the U. S. do l lar ma in ta ined by F in land and such l im i ts in fo rce in the coun t ry of the other currency concerned, or, in the case of s ter l ing and the Canadian dollar, are based on market rates abroad. The Bank of Finland quotes daily fo rwa rd rates for the U. S. do l lar at which authorized banks may cover their contracts with resident customers relating to any type of transac t ion perm i t ted by the ex- change control regu la t ions; otherwise, fo rwa rd pre- miums and discounts are left to the interplay of mar- ket forces. Official fixed buy ing and selling rates are applied to the clearing ruble. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with resident customers, and with nonresident banks in U. S. dollars and other con- vertible or externally convertible currencies. Forward transactions may be concluded freely for periods not exceeding 12 months and the Bank of Finland may in special cases grant cover to the authorized banks for up to 24 months. Forward transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized exchange dealers (mainly commercial b a n k s ). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Indus try, the Licensing Office, which is headed by a Licensing Board composed of gov- ernment officials, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries 2 and the * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Finland with e f fect f rom February 15 established a central rate of Fmk 3.90 = US$1. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kro- ner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, and Swiss francs. Market rates for sterling are derived f rom its rates against the U. S. dollar in the London ex- change market. 2 At the end of 1972 F in land had bilateral paymen ts agreements with Bu lgar ia, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U. S. S. R. However, se t t lemen ts with Czecho- slovakia and Poland were experimentally placed on a fu l ly convertible basis for the year 1970 and these arrangements have since been con- tinued. 170 convertible currency countries (all o the rs ). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the cur- rency of the agreement (rubles for the U. S. S. R. and Roman ia, F inn ish m a rkk aa for ma in land China, and U. S. do l l a rs in all o ther cases) or in F inn ish ma rkkaa th rough Restricted Accounts. Settlements with the con- ve r t ib le cu r rency coun tr ies may be made in any conver- tible cu r rency or th rough Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: Foreign Exchange Accounts, Convertible Markka Accounts, Restricted Ma rkka Accounts, and Capital Accoun ts .3 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by nonresi- den ts in conve r t ib le or b i la te ral currencies.4 These accoun ts may be credited w i th amoun ts received in the cu r rency in wh ich the account is kept; with payments authorized to be made in the currency in wh ich the account is kept; and w i th in terest accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for t r a n s f e rs to Capital Accounts; for paymen ts to residents of Finland; and for w i thd r aw a ls in F inn ish cu r rency. If the account is held in a convertible currency, it may also be debited for t r an s f e rs to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in any convertible cu r rency and for t rans fe rs abroad or with- d rawa ls in any conver t ib le currency. If the account is held in a b i l a t e r al currency, it may be debited for t ran s fe rs to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same cu r rency and for t rans fe rs to the respective bilat- eral country. 3 Since January 1, 1973, there have been only three categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts, Restricted Accounts, and Capital Accounts. 1. Convertible Accounts are held by non res iden ts in Finnish m a r k k aa or in conve r t ib le currenc ies. These accounts may be credited by an au tho r ized bank w i th amoun ts t rans fe r red f rom o ther Convert- ible Accoun ts, Finnish cu r rency received direct f rom a fore ign bank or impor ted into F in land, amoun ts which the bank wou ld be author- ized to su r r end e r, amoun ts of convertible currency received by the bank, and interest accrued on f u n ds held in the accounts. These ac- coun ts may be deb i ted f r e e ly. 2. Restricted Accounts are held by residents of countries with which F in land has b i la te ral paymen ts a r rangemen ts. They may be credited by an au tho r ized bank w i th amoun ts w i th wh ich the bank may c red it a Convertible Account, amounts t r a n s f e r r ed f rom Res tr ic ted Accounts re la ted to the same coun t ry, Finnish cu r r en cy received from a bank in the coun t ry ind ica ted on the accoun t, amoun ts wh ich the bank is au thor ized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the coun t ry indicated on the account, currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the coun t ry indicated on the account, and interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be deb i ted f r e e l y. 3. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonres ident accounts. The assignment of a Capital Account to another nonresident and the trans- fer abroad of f u n ds held in such an account may be effec ted only with the permission of the Bank of Finland. A mone tary institution may credit a Capital Account with amoun ts which may be credited to Conver t ib le or Restricted Accounts, amoun ts t r a n s f e r r ed f rom a Convertible or a Restricted Account, the purchase price of property other than fo re ign securities bought f rom the holder by a resident of Finland, redemp t ion paymen ts and interest on m a tu r ed bonds and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange, rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, and interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. Under the new arrangements, all nonresident accounts may be freely debited, but funds w i thd rawn f rom Cap i tal Accounts may be trans- fe r red abroad only with the permission of the Bank of Finland. 4 Residents are also permitted to hold Foreign Exchange Accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2. Convertible Markka Accounts may be credited w i th the equ iv a l ent in F inn ish ma rkkaa of convertible currencies sold to an au tho r ized b ank; w i th au thor ized rem i t tances f rom res iden ts of F i n l a nd to res iden ts of conver t ib le cu r rency coun t r ies; w i th t ran s fe rs f rom other Conve r t ib le M a rkka Accoun ts; w i th the va lue of Fin- nish bankno tes received by an au thor ized bank f r om a b a nk in a conv e r t ib le cu r rency c o u n t r y; and w i th in terest accrued on the a c coun t. They may be debited for au tho r- ized paymen ts in F in land, i n c l u d i ng the purchase of fo re ign exchange; for rem i t tances ab road; and for trans- fers to o ther Convertible Ma rkka, Restricted Ma rkka, or Capital Accounts. 3. Restricted Markka Accounts are held by residents of countries w i th which Finland has b i la teral payments agreements (see footnote 2 ). They may be credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of the currency of the coun t ry of the account holder or of any convertible currency; with t rans fe rs f rom another Restricted Ma rkka Account of the same coun t ry; w i th authorized rem i t tances payab le to the coun try of the account ho lder; w i th the v a lue of Finnish bankno tes received by an au thor ized b a nk f r om a bank in the coun t ry of the account ho lde r; and w i th interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in F in land in accordance w i th the relevant payments agreement; for t rans fe rs to other Restricted Ma rkka Accounts related to the coun t ry of the account ho lder; for transfers to the coun try of the account holder; and for transfers to Capital Accounts. 4. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They may be credited with f u n ds available for credit to a Foreign Exchange Account, a Convertible Markka Account, or a Restricted Markka Account; with proceeds f rom the sale to a resident of any asset held in Finland by a nonresident; w i th interest on the account; with income from nonresident-held assets administered by the account-holding bank; and with sums obtained from the redemption of bonds and debentures. Capital Accounts may be debited for noncommercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the account holder and for investment in shares and in those bonds and debentures that are denominated in Finnish ma rkkaa, provided that the securities are quoted on the stock exchange and are purchased by a bank on behalf of the holder. The Bank of F in land automatically grants per- mission for transfers abroad of funds deposited in Capi- tal Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most goods may be imported free of license from the multi- lateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly all coun- tries with which Finland does not have bilateral pay- FINLAND men ts agreemen ts) /' provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area. Certain other goods may be imported from the mu l t i la te ral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amoun ts of cer- ta in va lue quotas for specified commodity groups; no indu s t r ial goods are restricted by global quotas. The total v a l ue of the global quo tas for 1972 amoun ted to some 0.5 per cent of to tal 1972 impor ts. All rema in ing goods require an ind iv idual license when imported from the multilateral area and are set out in a negative list, the d iscre t ionary licensing list, wh ich comprises only agri- cu l tural commodities, coal, coke, and petroleum prod- ucts. The only commodities still subject to quantitative restriction for the mu l t i la teral area are agricultural com- modities, fue ls, and gold and silver. Import licenses are not requ ired for most commodities or ig ina t ing in and shipped from the U. S. S. R., and for many commodities originating in and shipped from the other bilateral countries; all commodities liberalized for import f rom the bilateral area are among those already liberalized for import from the multilateral area. Other imports from the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the relevant trade agreement. All imports of commodities originating in countries classified neither in the multilateral area nor in the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is the sole agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption. There is a state monopoly also for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted without delay for all permitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within six months after the arrival of goods in the country. For imports on credit of over six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of Finland. Such credit is approved provided that it is considered normal in the traditions of the trade. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions (relating to transport and insur- ance), residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving cu r rent invisibles w i th nonresidents. Pay- ments in respect of authorized invisibles are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to a maximum allowance or other con- ditions; for amounts in excess of the standard allow- ances and for purposes for which no standard allowances have been set, exchange licenses are granted freely by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments 5 The exceptions are the Republic of China, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Rhodesia, and the Republic of Viet-Nam. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND to nonresidents for which general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. A Finnish resident going abroad (except for border travel) may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 3,000 a trip. A traveler going to Denmark, Norway, or Sweden may withdraw on a savings account passbook issued by a Finnish monetary institution up to Fmk 500 du r ing one journey, provided that the utilized amount of his travel alloca- tion does not exceed a total of Fmk 3,000. Nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 3,000 a trip in Finnish notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins declared upon entry. Resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 3,000; travelers making frequent trips to neighboring countries to destinations not located beyond any municipality adjoining Finland's land boundary may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 200 a person a trip. For all types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange are approved by the Bank of Finland. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Certain exports to countries not in the multilateral area are restricted. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. However, exporters are permitted to keep a part of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with Finnish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for expenses related to exports and for author- ized imports of raw materials intended for his own pro- duction. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of freight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived f rom current invisibles do not have to be surrendered. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to maintain working balances in foreign exchange, under the super- vision of the Bank of Finland. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheritances are transferable without limitation and, subject to certain conditions, are generally transferred automatically up to Fmk 100,000 for each beneficiary. Persons who during the last calendar year have resided outside 172 Finland and continue to do so may transfer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Finland. Generally, the Bank of Finland will grant foreign exchange for this purpose. Nonresidents may purchase through an authorized bank, against convertible or externally convertible cur- rencies or by debiting a Convertible Markka Account, bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the author- ized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible or an externally convertible cur- rency. No permission is needed for the acquisition with funds classified as Capital Accounts of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the stock exchange, but pro- ceeds from the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securities involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with converti- ble foreign exchange or with markkaa from a Converti- ble Markka Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. The import of securities is unrestricted. The regulations concerning foreign direct investment are as follows: All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Finland, which considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permis- sion liberally, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of authorized direct investments is free. Foreign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of an enterprise require, in certain cases, the approval of the State Council. This approval, when required, is usually granted liberally. The primary reason for the 20 per cent limit is concern for the protection of na tu ral resources, mainly forests. Direct foreign investment in the forest and mining in- dustries is not normally permitted. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets, including property owned abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents requ i re individual approval; invest- ment by residents in foreign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. For direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 50,000 a person, in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form at home. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The global quota list contains a quota for industrial gold. Commercial imports of articles con- taining gold require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; for most such articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Office is usually sufficient. Changes during 1972 January 1. The import regulations for 1972 entered into force. The amount of the global quota program for 1972 was unchanged from 1971 and there was no change in the composition of the global quotas. January 1. Generalized tariff preferences for imports of specified goods orginating in developing countries went into effect. January 1. The supplementary sales tax of 15 per cent levied since June 6, 1971 on certain consumer dur- ables, whether imported or domestically produced, was abolished. June 1. The regulations of November 13, 1970 (as amended) were revoked; they had required that import payments for specified commodities, primarily consumer goods, had to be made through an authorized bank prior to customs clearance (or that an amount equivalent to their purchase price be deposited with the Bank of Fin- land prior to customs clearance). The general permis- sion to importers to avail themselves of commercial credits not exceeding six months granted by nonresi- dents was restored in fu l l. FINLAND July 17. Permitted installment credit terms for a large number of consumer durables were eased; those for passenger automobiles remained unchanged. July 22. An industrial free trade agreement with the EEC was initialled; the agreement had not been signed by the end of 1972. September 29. The banks reduced from 4 per cent to 3 per cent the interest paid on foreign exchange placed on time deposit by residents. December 29. New exchange legislation was passed, which came into operation on January 1, 1973. The law on Trade in Foreign Exchange (of December 30, 1959), the Law on the Regulation of Foreign Exchange (of December 4, 1959), and the relevant Decrees and Reg- ulations were abrogated. They were replaced by the Law on the Right to Deal in Foreign Exchange (No. 909 /72 ), the Law on Foreign Exchange (No. 910 /72 ), and the related Decisions of the Council of State (No. 911 /72) and the Bank of Finland (No. 912 /72) on the application of the new legislation. The Law on the Right to Deal in Foreign Exchange was of a permanent nature, while the Law on Foreign Exchange and the re- lated Decisions of the Council of State and the Bank of Finland were to expire on December 31, 1974. The main purpose of the reform was to bring the ex- change legislation up to date without altering the degree of control. A major feature was the replacement of the surrender requirement for certain foreign exchange earnings of residents by the obligation to repatriate, with minor exceptions, all foreign exchange proceeds; repatriated foreign currency could either be converted into Finnish markkaa or held in a domestic foreign exchange account with an authorized bank in Finland. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Exchange Rate System * The par v a lue is 0.160000 gram of fine gold per French Franc, co r respond ing to F 5.55419 = SDR 1 or F 5.11570 = US$1, and France ava i ls i tse lf of w ider ma rg in s. There a re two exchange m a rk e t s, the o f f i c i al ma rke t, whe re exchange rates are based on par va lues and cen t ral rates, and the f inanc ial f r a nc m a rk e t, in wh ich rates a re d e t e rm i n ed by supp ly and d em a n d, f r ee f rom o f f ic ial i n t e r v e n t i o n. M a rk et ra tes for spot exchange t ran sac t ions in U.S. do l l a rs in the o f f ic ial market are m a i n t a i n ed be tween off ic ial l im i ts of F 5.0005 buy ing, and F 5.2310 se l l ing, per US$1; ma rket rates in the official ma rket for exchange t r an s a c t ions between the French f r anc and the Belgian f r a n c, the Danish k rone, the deutsche ma rk, the I ta l ian l ira, the Luxem- bourg f r a n c, the N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lder, and the Nor- wegian krone are m a i n t a i n ed w i th in l im i ts of 2.25 per cent e i ther side of cross par i t ies. Ma rket ra tes for other currenc ies t h at are o f f ic ia l ly quoted f lu c tu a te between l im i ts wh ich re su lt f r om comb in ing the o f f ic ial l im i ts for the U.S. d o l l ar m a i n t a i n ed by France and such l im i ts in force in the c o u n t ry of the other cur- rency concerned, or, where no margins are observed in the c o u n t ry conce rned, a re de r ived f r om arb i trage w i th marke ts abroad.1 In the financial f ranc market the rate for the U.S. do l lar was about F 5 .1225 = US$1 on December 31, 1972; in the o f f ic ial ma rket it was F 5.1200 = US$1. The du al exchange m a r k et regu la t ions are not applic- able to the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies .2 Fixed con- version ra tes in terms of French f rancs apply to the cu r renc ies of the fo l low ing coun tr ies and territories: A lge r ia, Morocco, Tun is ia, the Ope ra t ions Account countries, the French Overseas Depa r tmen ts, the French Overseas Territories (except the Te r r i to ry of the A f a rs and the Issas), and the Condom in ium of the New Hebrides. These convers ion rates have been m a in t a in ed at pre-August 15, 1971 levels. Except in the cases of * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, France ma in ta ined the par va lue of its currency in terms of gold and continued to avail itself of w ider margins. The effec t ive pa r i ty relationship for the U. S. dollar became F 4.60414. New official buy ing and selling limits for the U. S. dollar were set at F 4.5005 and F 4.70775. With effect f rom March 19, 1973, France maintained a max imum marg in of 2.25 per cent for ra tes in exchange t ransac t ions in the off ic ial m a r k et between the French franc and the Belgian f ranc, the Danish krone, the deutsche ma rk, the Luxembou rg franc, the Ne ther lands gu i lde r, the No rweg ian krone, and the Swedish krona; the fixed conversion rates for the currencies mentioned in the second pa rag raph of th is survey were ma in ta ined, but no announced margins were observed for o ther currencies. 1 The currencies that are officially quo ted are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, D j ibou ti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and za ires. The quotation for the Portu- guese escudo has been suspended since October 22, 1966. 2 Countries whose institute of issue maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 174 Algeria, Morocco, the New Hebrides, and Tunisia (to all of which the dual market regulations are applicable) these conversion rates are applied irrespec- t ive of the n a tu re of paymen ts or receipts. The transac t ions w i th foreign countries or nonresi- den ts that are eligible for the official market are essen- t i a l ly (a) a ll t rade t ran sac t ions (imports, exports, and t rans it or me rchan t ing trade); (b) most current invisibles; (c) the r ep aym ent of comme rc ial c red it gran ted or taken up in connection w i th import, export, or transit trade transactions; (d) cu r rent payments made by the French State and French public bodies to nonresidents or made by any resident in favor of fo re ign states and fore ign pub l ic bodies; and (e) cu r r ent paymen ts received by the French State or French pub l ic bodies from non- residents or received by any resident f rom foreign states and fo re ign p u b l ic bodies. A ll other transactions ( in c lud ing all t ransac t ions between residents and non- res iden ts in domestic or fo re ign bankno tes or between residents in fore ign b ankno t e s) mu st take place in the f in an c i al f r a nc marke t. The t ransac t ions channe led through the financial franc ma rket are m a i n ly the fo l low ing: (1) imports and expor ts of c ap i t a l, w i th the exception of (a) credit granted or taken up on impor t, expor t, and transit t rade transac t ions and (b) funds credited or debited by au tho r ized banks ac t ing on behalf of nonresidents to Foreign Accoun ts in Francs, invo lv ing conversion in the o f f ic ial exchange marke t; (2) transactions between residents and non res iden ts in domestic or fore ign bank- notes as well as transac t ions between residents in for- eign banknotes; (3) nonres ident travelers' purchases of goods and services in France; (4) res iden ts' t rans fe rs abroad, free of documen ta t ion or authorization, up to F 1,000 a t ran s fe r; and (5) the fo l low ing cu r rent pay- ments (unless made by or in favor of governments or collectivites publiques): ( a) travel expenditures of resi- dents and nonresidents, other than clearly individu- alized fares paid by residents; (b) capital service (profits, d iv idend s, interest, amo r t iza t ion, and bank ing commission, except interest, amortization, and banking commission on commerc ial credits); (c) workers' rem i t- tances; (d) ce r ta in other paymen ts in the personal sphere (wages and salaries, pensions, f am i ly remit- tances, social security prem iums and benefits, and a l imony ); and (e) rentals for the noncommercial use of real estate, mach ine ry, and vehicles. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Opera t ions Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or fo rwa rd in the off ic ial exchange ma rket and the f inanc ial f ranc ma rket in France. There is no official intervention in the fo rwa rd markets. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspond- ents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank resi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dents may purchase fo rwa rd exchange on ly in respect of imports and of ce r ta in me rchan t ing transac t ions, but the ir forward sales of fore ign currency are free, whe ther these represent export proceeds or other receipts. On the impo rt side, fo rwa rd cover is available for some commod i t ies for 6 or 12 months, and for all others for 3 mon ths .3 On the export side, an unde r ly ing con tract is requ i red and cover is l im i t ed to the ma tu r i ty of the export con tract or up to one m o n th a f t er the da te on which the proceeds are collected. France fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from Feb rua ry 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange con t rol regu la t ions are applicable in all territories of the French Republic except the French Terr i tory of the A fa rs and the Issas, i.e., in con t inen tal France, Corsica, the Overseas Depa r tmen ts (Guade- loupe, M a r t in iqu e, G u i a n a, and Reun ion ), and five of the six Overseas Territories (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and M ique lon, New Ca ledon ia, Wa l l is and Fu tuna Islands, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is app l ied in re la t ion to the P r in c ip a l i ty of Monaco or the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies (see footnote 2); pay- ments between France and these countries are free of restriction on the French side and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other coun tr ies are considered for- eign countries for exchange control purposes;4 all pay- ments between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control and take place at exchange rates resu l t ing f rom the d u al ma rket regu la t ions. The Condo- minium of the New Hebrides is considered a foreign country for exchange control purposes. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign countries. Certain controls th at are independent of the exchange control regu la t ions are ma in ta ined over inward and outward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these transac t ion controls are not applicable to the Operations Account countries or Monaco, and those over direct investment do not apply to member coun- tries of the EEC. Privileged trea tment in respect of trade transactions is accorded to (1) the Operations Account countries and (2) Algeria, Gu inea, the Khmer 3 W i th effect f r om Apr il 5, 1973 import cover for all commodities was freely permitted for the amount and ma tur i ty of the commercial contract. 4 Present French legislation no longer makes reference to the con- cept French Franc Area. From an exchange control point of view, this Area ceased to exist with effect from January 31, 1967. In the context of countries' overall relations with France, however, the con- cept survives. In this sense the French Franc Area consists of France and the following countries: (1) the countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ); (2) the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Central African Republic, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon) and Chad; (3) three North African countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia); and (4) two other countries (Malagasy Republic and Mali). This definition is followed, inter alia, in compiling the balance of payments. In the context of France's monetary relations, the concept of French Franc Area is the same, minus the countries of group (3 ). FRANCE Repub l ic, Laos, Morocco, Tun is ia, No r th Viet-Nam, the Republic of Viet-Nam, and the Condominium of the New Hebrides.5 Administration of Control The D irec tora te of the Treasury of the M in i s t ry of Economy and F in an ce is the c o o r d i n a t i ng agency in the field of financial re la t ions w i th fo re ign countries. Jt is in charge of exchange con t rol and of all matters r e l a t ing to inwa rd and ou twa rd d i rect inves tment and to bo r row ing abroad, un l e ss these ma t te rs re la te to real estate compan ies, when the B a nk of France screens app l ica t ions and no t i f ica t ions. The Directorate of the Treasury also eva lua tes the ba lance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the da ta for i ts comp i l a t ion. Cer ta in exchange control powers have been delegated to the B ank of France, in c lud ing the au tho r i ty to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange con trol powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Ind i rect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Cen tra le de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance has certain powers in respect of ma t te rs re la t ing to insurance, rein- surance, annu i t i e s, etc. The ma te r ial execution of all t r an s f e rs has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls w i th in the f ramewo rk of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Rela- tions; the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses, is responsible for any legal problems arising from the exchange regulations, and in particular handles any litigation relating thereto. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the competent m in is t ry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Indus- trial and Scientific Development has certain responsibili- ties in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relat- ing to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th Operations Account countries may be made in French francs or the currency issued by any ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury.6 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the curren- 5 These countries and territories are listed in Article 86 of an Order of January 30, 1967 of the Directorate-General of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes (as amended on February 6, and May 31, 1967). 6 In addition to the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries, these are the Ins t i tu te of Issue of the French Overseas Departments (for Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reun ion ); the Overseas Institute of Issue ( for New Caledonia, French Poly- nesia, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands); the Caisse Centrale de Coope- ration Economique (for St. Pierre and Miquelon); and the Bank of Madagascar and the Comores (for the Comoro Islands). 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE cies of those countries, or, depending on the na ture of the t ransac t ion (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below), through nonres ident Foreign Accounts in Francs or Financial Accounts in Francs. Settlements with Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, however, normally take place in French f rancs only. Importers and export- ers are free to invoice in any cu r rency. Nonresident Accounts A nonres ident account in f rancs may be freely opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, includ- ing French nationals (other than French officials) who have been res id ing abroad for at least two years. All ove rd ra f ts on non res iden t -he ld f r anc accounts are sub- ject to general or specific permission; the lending of f rancs to non re s iden ts for periods of up to two years is covered by a general permission. Non res ident accounts are m a i n ly of two k inds: Foreign Accounts in Francs and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs; these are related to the off ic ial exchange ma rket and the financial f r a nc m a rk e t, respectively. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited w i th (1) the f r a nc proceeds of the spot or fo rwa rd sale of foreign currencies (but not in bankno te fo rm) on the official exchange ma rket by a nonres iden t; (2) the franc equ iva lent of an au thor ized bank 's arb i trage in fore ign currencies on a fo re ign ma rke t, provided that the regu- lations of the country concerned allow the transaction; (3) t rans fe rs f rom other Foreign Accounts in Francs; and (4) any authorized payment by a resident to a non- resident that is eligible for the official ma rke t, inc lud- ing interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs. These accounts may be free ly debited for (1) the equ iva lent in f rancs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank, provided that the regulations of the coun t ry concerned allow the transac- tion; (2) t rans fe rs to other Foreign Accoun ts in Francs; (3) any payment to a resident when the regulations permit the sale of the foreign currency in the official marke t; and (4) purchases of any foreign currency on the official exchange ma rket by a nonresident. Financial Accounts in Francs may be freely credited w i th (1) the f r a nc proceeds of fo r e ign cu r rency sold spot or fo rwa rd in the financial f r a nc ma rket by a non res iden t; (2) the f r a nc proceeds of the sale of fo re ign bankno tes (not those of the Opera t ions Account countries) to an authorized bank by a nonresident; (3) t ran s fe rs f rom other F inanc ial Accounts in Francs; (4) l iqu ida t ion proceeds of non re s iden t -he ld d irect invest- ments 7 or real estate; (5) French bankno tes (and those of the Operations Account coun t r ies except the Malagasy Repub l ic) mailed direct f rom abroad to the ma in office of the Bank of France by an au thor ized bank's foreign correspondents; (6) any payment made by a resident 7 Sub ject to compliance w i th the provisions of Decree No. 67-78 of Janua ry 27, 1967, as amended on March 21, 1969, and of Decree No. 71-143 of February 22, 1971. 176 to a nonresident when the regulations permit access to the financial franc market, including interest on balances in Financial Accounts in Francs; ( 7) the franc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currency on a foreign market, provided that the regula- tions of the country concerned allow the transaction; and ( 8) the sales proceeds, income, and amortization f rom French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, including securities accruing in France to a nonresident by donation or inheritance. Financial Accounts in Francs may be freely debited for (1) f r an cs purchased against foreign currency by an authorized bank in an arbitrage transaction with a for- eign marke t; ( 2) approved direct investment in France by nonresidents; 7 ( 3) purchases in France of French or fore ign securities; (4) purchases of real estate from resi- dents; ( 5) transfers to other Financial Accounts in Francs; (6) any payment in favor of a resident when the sale of foreign currency is eligible for the financial f ranc market; ( 7) purchases by nonresidents of any for- eign currency, including foreign banknotes, on the finan- cial f ranc market; and (8) French banknotes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their foreign correspondents.8 Direct t ran s fe rs between Foreign Accounts and F inanc ial Accoun ts are proh ib i ted. Transfers between the two types of accounts may, however, be effected by conversion th rough spot exchange t ransac t ions in the two exchange markets concerned (arbitrage sur les marches des changes). If French f r an cs acc ru ing to a nonresident are not t r a n s f e r a b l e, or not immed ia te ly t rans fe rab le, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in f rancs in the name of the bene f ic ia ry. The un rem i t tab le f u n ds of emigrants of French n a t i o n a l i t y, however, must be retained in resident accounts (comptes interieurs); emigrants of for- eign na t iona l i ty may take out all of their assets upon departure. Imports and Import Payments Goods o r ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom other parts of the French Franc Area or f rom cer ta in other coun- tries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are gene ra l ly admitted free of quanti- tative res t r ic t ion and ind iv idu al license. Imports of goods wh ich o r ig ina te in other countries and are not covered by French impo rt liberalization require individ- ual licenses. Some impo r ts f rom EEC countries and some o ther impo r ts f rom non-EEC countries are sub- ject to m i n im um prices; these require an administrative v isa and sometimes, excep t iona l ly, an impo rt license. 8 On March 16, 1973 the use of Financial Franc Accounts for the purchase of French short-term securities and for transfers to savings passbooks was prohibited; exempt were debits up to the amount of wages, salaries, social security payments, and pensions received to the credit of accounts held by nonresident physical persons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are d iv ided into four groups accord- ing to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former OEEC coun tr ies, the ir dependent terr i tor ies and certain former d ep end ent territories, Andorra, Canada, Fin- land, the Un i ted States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified coun t r ies ;9 (3) the Eastern European countries (Alba- nia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Roma- nia, and the U. S. S.R.) and ma in land China; and (4) Eastern Ge rmany. Commodities that may be imported free of qu an t i t a t ive res t r ic t ions f rom one group of countries inc lude all the commodities that may be free ly imported f rom the next group of coun tr ies plus some other specified commodities. Goods covered by the import liberalization a r rangemen ts applicable to one country may be imported free ly from another country, provided that the coun t ry of origin and the coun try of shipment both bene f it f rom the same degree of liberal- ization. Impor ts of p rac t ica l ly a ll indu s t r ial produc ts from countries in g roup (1) are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions, but such res t r ic t ions are app l ied to a number of agr icu l tural p roduc ts; there is re la t ive ly l i t t le d ifference between the lists of goods wh ich may be imported f ree ly f rom d i f f e r e nt coun t r ies in th is group, these d i f fe rences re la t ing m a i n ly to Hong Kong and Macao. Imports of cer ta in i n d u s t r i al produc ts f rom countries in group (2) are res t r ic ted, and re s t r ic t ions are applied to these and to cer ta in add i t ional indu s t r ial products f rom group (3) coun t r ies. For some commodities, there are global quo tas th at are allocated s em i annu a l ly and apply to a ll coun t r i es other th an those h av ing the bene f it of b i l a t e r a l ly negotiated quotas or of privileged t rea tmen t. Impo r ts f rom a ll coun t r ies of cer ta in agri- cu l tu ral i tems and c e r t a in raw ma te r ia ls are f ree of q u a n t i t a t i ve re s t r ic t ion s. Impo r ts f rom non -EEC coun t r i es of most produc ts covered by the Common Ag r i cu l tu r al Policy of the EEC are sub ject to va r iab le import levies that have replaced all p rev ious ba r r ie rs to imports; common EEC regu la t ions are also app l ied to impor ts f rom non-EEC countries of most other ag r icu l tu ral and livestock prod- ucts. Certain ag r icu l tu ral imports f r om EEC and non- EEC countries are subject to special levies (montants compensatoires). Liberalized imports are not subject to trade control formalities, only a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration being required; however, as an exchange control measure, the domiciliation of the import transaction at an authorized bank may be pre- scribed. For some liberalized imports, an administrative 9 A fghan i s tan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bu rm a, Ch i le, R e p u b l ic of C h i n a, Co lomb ia, Costa R ica, Cub a, Dom in ican Republic, Ecuado r, Egyp t, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gua tema la, Ha i t i, Hondu ra s, Ind i a, Indonesia, I r an, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Repub l ic of Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan A rab Republic, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, N ica ragua, Pak is tan, Panama, P a r agu ay, Peru, Philip- pines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian A rab Republic, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. FRANCE visa issued by the central Customs Administration or by the competent technical ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the Euro- pean Coal and Steel Community require licenses when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of com- modities and applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued under the compensation transaction proce- dure, which applies mainly to goods of Eastern Euro- pean origin. Because of the high degree of import liberalization, imports under this scheme are of slight importance. Payments for imports from foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or with foreign currency purchased in the official exchange market; imports valued at less than F 10,000 may also be paid for through postal channels. Import transac- tions relating to foreign countries and valued at F 10,000 or more must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. Authorized banks may without special authorization allow advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract, up to 30 per cent of the price for capital goods and up to 10 per cent for all other goods. Higher advance payments require prior approval by the Customs Administration. For all imports, importers may purchase spot fore'-%i currency one month before the payment falls due (one month before shipment if a documentary credit is opened). There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credit. The import payment itself can be made (1) if a docu- mentary credit has been opened, upon receipt of advice f rom the bank's foreign correspondent bank that the shipping documents (showing direct shipment either to the French customs territory or to a nearby port, such as Antwerp or Rotterdam) have been submitted to it; (2) if a d ra ft accompanied by shipping documents (effet documentaire, remise documentaire) is presented to the authorized bank, when the bank has verified that the documents cover the goods concerned and that they have been shipped (to the customs territory or a neigh- boring p o r t ); ( 3) for impor ts of raw ma ter ia ls, as soon as the impor ter presents the bill of lading to his bank of dom ic i l ia t ion; or (4) for all other imports, if the impor ter subm i ts the customs declaration (un less he already did so when purchas ing his foreign cu r rency ). Three months' forward cover for import payments can be obtained for any commodity; for the import of specified raw materials and specified foods tuffs (unroasted coffee, corn, rice, etc.) forward cover for six months or one year is available. The foreign currency 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE may be purchased forward at the time of domiciliation, but the maturity of the fo rwa rd exchange contract must not exceed the date on which the commercial payment is due (see also footnote 3 ). Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but not restricted as to amount. Settle- ment for most transactions must take place through the official exchange market. If justifying documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for pay- ments without any limitation for many categories of current invisibles, and up to established limits for cer- tain other categories of current invisibles. Applications for all other payments for invisibles and for amounts in excess of established limits are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; such applications are approved if a genuine current payment is involved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 1,000 a person without indicating their purpose, provided that the transfers do not constitute install- ments of payments exceeding F 1,000, are not for pur- poses subject to special allocation, and do not serve to accumulate funds abroad. Payments which may be authorized without limita- tion by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royal- ties; bank ing commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance with court decisions; and net salaries or wages of for- eigners employed in France, provided that the transfer takes place within three months from the date of pay- ment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, cer- tain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include cer- tain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 3,500 a person a trip (F 1,750 for children under ten), which may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for busi- ness travel is the equivalent of F 400 a person a day, subject to a maximum of F 8,000 a trip. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital ou tf low is involved. Any unu t i l- ized foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 100 must be surrendered upon re turn to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be subm i t ted 178 earlier than one month before departure. The use of credit cards abroad is permitted up to one half of the amount of any travel allocation granted, but such use is set off against the allocation itself. All fares for trips starting in France may be paid in francs in France. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out F 500 in French banknotes. These banknotes may be spent abroad. Nonresident travelers may take out F 500 in French banknotes and may reconvert in the financial f ranc market into foreign currency any French banknotes up to F 500 obtained by the conver- sion in the financial f ranc market of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Financial Account in Francs; any remaining French banknotes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 3,500 in foreign notes and coins when acquired in the financial f ranc market against a tourist travel allo- cation, or, if they are leaving on a business trip, the equivalent of F 3,500 in foreign banknotes or in checks. Nonresident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F 3,500 in foreign bank- notes unless they were declared upon entry and the an- notated declaration fo rm shows that the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported minus any amounts exchanged for francs plus any reconversion of francs into foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may also freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad, as well as, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, any amount in foreign banknotes or for- eign currency travelers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange in the financial f ranc market, by debit to a Financial Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also require individual licenses; but if the total value does not exceed F 500, these exports may be per- mitted without any formality, subject to certain excep- tions. Regardless of their value, exports through com- pensation transactions with certain countries 10 require licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are required. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the official exchange market. The repatriation ll and, where appro- priate, the surrender in the official market of proceeds from exports to foreign countries is required, normally 10 Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, Turkey, U. S. S. R., Yugoslavia, and certain Latin Amer ican countries. 11 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign cur- rency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution within one mon th of the date on which the payment fa l ls due. Au tho r ized banks may f ree ly extend fo re ign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment are eligible for the off ic ial exchange marke t, as are the proceeds f r om the d iscoun t ing of foreign cu r rency d ra f ts presented by exporters. The due date of the commercial contract (and, therefore, the due date of the export receipts) cannot, except with special au tho r iza t ion or when a gua ran tee by the Com- pagnie Franchise d1 Assurance pour le Commerce Exte- rieur (COFACE) has been obtained be more than 180 days a f ter a r r ival of the goods at the ir destina- tion.1- Export proceeds must not be received in French or fore ign bankno tes or bankno tes issued by an insti- tute of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal check- ing account in France. All export transactions relating to foreign countries and valued at F 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank; the Director-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, how- ever, may exempt certain approved firms from domi- ciliation. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in French francs, and are exempt from taxes. Sales to foreign tourists normally are settled through the financial franc market, although the regulations provide for the possibility of using the official exchange market if certain special customs requirements are fulfilled. Holders of exporters' cards, which are issued to enterprises that export a specified percentage of their production, are entitled to obtain every year import licenses for any commodity still subject to quota and related to their export activity, up to a value corre- sponding to 10 per cent of their export proceeds in foreign currencies received in the previous year.13 Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered, within one month from the due date. Settlement for most types of transactions must take place in the official exchange market. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in French francs, CFA francs, Malagasy francs, CFP "This limitation was abolished on April 2, 1973. The due date of the export payment was denned as the due date foreseen in the commercial contract, and the latter was not circumscribed. 13 Decree No. 57-911 of August 10, 1957, which had created the exporters' card, was revoked by Decree No. 73-413 of March 27, 1973. FRANCE francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must within a month of entry sell in the finan- cial f r anc market any foreign banknotes in excess of F 100 that they bring in. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. Most inward and outward capital transfers between France and foreign countries (between residents and nonresidents) must be effected through the financial f ranc ma rke t. W i th the exception of purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capi- tal receipts from foreign countries generally are per- mitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange pro- ceeds are surrendered by sale in the appropriate exchange market (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct invest- ment). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are freely permitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use, up to F 150,000 per fam i ly un i t. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned funds in France, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by non- residents can be exported, provided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French and fore ign securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be trans- ferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresi- dent must be deposited with an authorized bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French authorized bank or broker. The exportation for the account of residents of French securities held in France is prohibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct investment that are summarized below, residents may freely purchase French and foreign securities on stock exchanges abroad, through authorized banks and provided that settlement takes place in the financial franc market. Such French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or sold on a French stock exchange. The pro- ceeds of the sale abroad of French or foreign securities 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE must be sold on the financial franc market within two months of receipt, unless used within that period for reinvestment in securities abroad. Correspondingly, non- residents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may freely import them into France and hold them in a foreign dossier, or sell them on a stock exchange in France and repatriate the proceeds through the finan- cial franc market. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad and over inward and outward direct investment. In principle, these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. At present, however, their application is in many instances affected by exchange control requirements. With the exception of the controls over capital issues in France, the transaction controls do not apply to coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Furthermore, the transaction controls over direct investment are not applicable to member countries of the EEC, direct investment transactions with which are subject to exchange control declaration and exchange control approval only. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad require prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance; in relations with member countries of the EEC, the declaration is required under the exchange control regulations rather than under the special transaction controls, and prior exchange control authorization is requ ired for all direct inves tment operations liable to involve a capital move- ment. Direct investments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participation in any other type of firm is considered a direct investment. The Directorate of the Treasury, in eva lua t ing the degree of control, takes into account any special re la t ionsh ips resulting from stock options, pa ten ts and licenses, commercial contracts, etc. Except in respect of EEC countries, the Minister has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the dec lara t ion du r ing wh ich he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to h im. Unless the amount involved is less than F 1 million, documen ta ry evidence must be subm i t ted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the liquidation proceeds of fo re ign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days a f ter it takes place. As an exception to the dec lara t ion and approval requ i remen ts summarized earlier in th is paragraph, the mak ing or the l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts abroad by resi- dents is exempt f rom prior declaration or prior authori- 180 zation when the amount involved does not exceed F 1 million a year for a beneficiary firm abroad, and pro- vided that the transactions do not involve holding companies, investment companies, investment trusts, un it trusts, mutual funds, or companies whose purpose it is to facilitate the financing or treasury func t ions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups. Until recently, French direct investment abroad in many cases had to be partially financed abroad, and foreign direct investment in France generally was required to be financed in part with an inflow of for- eign exchange. Both financing requirements were eased considerably in 1971, and for outward investment they were terminated in September 1971. Foreign issues on the French capital market are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Govern- ment, and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence of registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The follow- ing types of borrowing are, in principle, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above, and whose postponement may be requested by the Minister up to two months after receipt of the declaration; (2) borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad; (3) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports; (4) loans related to certain international merchanting transactions; (5) loans contracted by banks expressly permitted to bor- row abroad (these include all authorized banks); and (6) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed F 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the borrow- ing is not for the purpose of direct investment, and that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered. However, since Ju ly 24, 1970 borrowing in francs has been subject to closer scrutiny to prevent excessive interest rates in the Euro-franc market (and, initially, the evasion of the direct controls over domestic bank credit which were abolished in 1971), and the exemp- tions under ( 2 ), ( 3 ), ( 4 ), and (6) have been limited to bo r row ing in fore ign currency. When the countervalue in francs is made ava i lab le to the borrower, repayment must be scheduled to take place af ter at least one year. Since the date mentioned, borrowing in francs by non- bank residents from nonresidents has in effect been pro- hibited. During the last quar ter of 1971, furthermore, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution banks and industrial companies were not normally allowed to borrow abroad to finance direct investment in France or abroad; these restrictions continued in force in 1972.14 The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France inso- far as they relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France. Authorized banks have since the imposition of exchange control in 1968 been virtually free to lend foreign currency to non- residents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the granting of guarantees and varying limitations on their external position.15 Lending to nonresidents in francs, however, was until late in 1971 heavily restricted; during 1972, f r anc loans to nonresidents for up to two years were free ly permitted, for any purpose, and the Bank of France approved l ibera l ly applications for loans of over two years.16 Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in francs and foreign currency to non- residents are free from limitation.17 Authorized banks may freely sell foreign exchange on the official exchange market (as well as the financial f ranc market) for the account of nonresidents, spot or forward. They are allowed to pay interest on nonresident-owned f ranc or foreign currency deposits.18 Nonresident-held franc deposits are subject, however, to d i f fe ren t ial reserve requirements.19 Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private draf ts, through the financial f ranc market.20 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of 14 On January 3, 1973 these restrictions were eased, provided that the borrowing was intended to finance direct investment abroad and that the direct investor did not dispose of, and was unable to raise, sufficient funds in France. MOn March 29, 1973 Bank of France Circular No. 193 A.F. instructed authorized banks not to undertake new transactions (or renew existing ones) that involved the lending of foreign currency in a swap against francs with their private nonresident customers, whether physical or juridical persons. Transactions of the same na ture with their foreign correspondents remained subject to Circular No. 5 P.B. of March 16, 1973. MThis liberal policy with respect to lending in francs was main- tained in March 1973. 1TOn March 16, 1973 the net long forward position in foreign currencies of resident banks vis-a-vis their foreign correspondents was limited to that of February 28 (Bank of France Circular No. 5 P.B.). 18 On March 16, 1973 the Bank of France prohibited banks and other financial institutions f rom remunera t ing directly or indirectly any accounts in francs, at sight or with a maturity of up to 180 days, opened for nonresidents. Exempt were (1) physical and ju r id ical per- sons resident in Operations Account countries; and (2) in terna t ional organizations, central banks, and foreign public financial ins t i tu t ions (for their balances as of September 30, 1972). On April 2, banks decided to impose a negative interest on nonresident franc deposits by levying a flat mon th ly commission of 0.75 per cent. 19 On March 21, 1973 a reserve r equ i r em ent of 100 per cent was applied against any increases a f t er J a n u a ry 3, 1973 in non re s iden t s' franc deposits. 20 On March 16, 1973, such purchases were prohibited for the time being. On March 30, short-term securities for these purposes were defined as any security or obligation with 180 days or less to run to maturity. FRANCE gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents have free and anonymous access and in which no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of gold into or from the territory of continental France require prior authorization by the Bank of France, which is not normally granted for monetary gold but usua l ly is given for industrial gold. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports of gold addressed to or shipped by the Bank of France; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing only a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; (3) imports and exports of gold objects (other than medals, coins, and bars, but including both personal and other jewe lry) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) collectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under "02 licenses" granted with the approval of the Directorate of Museums. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The import and export of certain gold objects that are considered merchandise, such as gold watches, is subject to both the regular import and export licensing arrangements and to licensing by the Bank of France. Imports and exports of industrial gold are settled in the official exchange market. A 20 f r anc gold coin, the napoleon, is legal tender but does not circulate. It is actively traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of mone- tary gold (bars and coins) are not subject to value- added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs du ty and value-added tax. Changes during 1972 January 3. The lending of francs by residents to non- residents to finance purchases of short-term French securities (which had been prohibited since December 3, 1971) was again free ly pe rm i t ted; the general permis- sion covered loans of up to two years' ma tu r i ty. January 3. A system of montants compensators went in to effect for t r ade w i th EEC and non-EEC countries in specified ag r i cu l tu r al products and food s tu f f s. With respect to I ta ly, the arrangemen ts were retroactive to December 24, 1971. January 28. The p rocedu re of the marche d'applica- tion, wh ich since Ap r il 1970 had allowed exporters to u t i l ize the foreign cu r rency proceeds of the ir commer- cial c la ims in ce r ta in c ircums tances for p aym ent abroad of the ir own commerc ial debts, was extended to French s h i p p i ng companies, in respect of credit and deb it bal- ances in sh ipp ing accoun ts (comptes d'escale). At the same time, it was c la r i f ied that in all cases a marche d'application had to comprise t ransac t ions that were eli- gible for the same exchange ma rke t, i.e., with purchase and sale of fore ign cu r rency e i ther both in the official market or both in the financial f r a nc market. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE January 28. The period w i th in wh ich French sh ipp ing compan ies were requ i red to repatriate the credit bal- ances in the ir sh ipp ing accounts was increased f rom three to six mon ths. January 31. Exchange ra te guaran tees were made ava i lab le to exporters unab le to invoice in f ranc s. A f ter screening of the con t ract by the Committee for Foreign Trade Gua ran tee s, the gu a r an t e es wou ld be extended by COFACE, w i th the gu a r an t ee of the Gove rnmen t. They wou ld cover the f u ll exchange loss a r is ing when the off i- cial ma rket ra te for any convertible currency in which a contract was established had depreciated by 3 per cent or more (in terms of f rancs) between the date of sig- na tu re of the contract and the da te of repa tr ia t ion of the foreign currency (garantie de change sur rapatrie- ments).-1 The f u ll amount of the con t ract could be insured. The p r em ium was set in i t ia l ly at 0.648 per cent a year, payab le to COFACE. Covered exporters had to surrender to COFACE any exchange prof it resulting from an appreciation of the cu r rency concerned by more than 3 per, cent. The guarantee was reserved in principle for new export contracts with a ma tu r i ty of at least two years, but it could be made available retroactively for selected old contracts signed a f ter October 19, 1971, and in exceptional cases for new export contracts w i th a matu- rity of less than two years, if concluded in a currency for which the banks did not o f fer fo rwa rd cover. No m in imum size was set for eligible export contracts, nor a maximum m a tu r i ty period. (The fac i l i ty was improved on April 2, 1973, when the m in imum exchange rate variation covered was reduced from 3 per cent to 2.25 per cent and the normal m in imum ma tu r i ty of the com- mercial contract f rom two years to one year.) February 10. Authorized banks were again allowed to provide forward cover to importers (up to the due date foreseen in the commercial contract) for periods of 3, 6, or 12 months, depending on the commodity; since September 2, 1971 such fo rwa rd cover had been restricted to the payments periods imposed on August 20, 1971 (normally three months). (The time limits were removed on April 2, 1973.) February 10. Authorized banks were allowed to lend foreign currency to importers aga in, for the purpose of mak ing import payments. Such loans could not be used as forward cover, and repayment had to take place by the purchase of foreign currency in the official market. February 14. The Customs Administration issued Cir- cular No. 24, essentially a consolidation of its instruc- tions of August 31, September 15, and October 15, 1971. A new provision was that import payments in foreign currency no longer had to be made in the cur- rency of the commercial contract. It was clarified that 21 Similar cover was also granted for losses arising when the cur- rency in which imported goods and services to be incorporated in the exports were invoiced appreciated by 3 per cent or more (garantie de change sur transfert de devises). 182 merchan t ing transac t ions were to be settled in the finan- cial market only when tak ing place between foreign countries outside the French Franc Area. The market classification for mixed import or export transactions in wh ich services accounted for more than 25 per cent of the contract amount was clarified; normally, the exports or impor ts involved would qu a l i fy for the official market and the services (such as assembly, technical assistance, or t ra in ing of staff abroad) for the financial f ranc mar- ket. Exceptional exemp t ions f rom th is classification could only be obtained if f u ll da ta were provided to the Customs Adm in is t ra t ion. February 28. Bank of France Circular No. 191 A. F. summa r ized the existing rules governing lending of f rancs to nonresidents. Subject, where appropriate, to the regulations concern ing direct investments, all such lending was f ree ly permitted for periods of up to two years, provided that the interest ra te was the "normal market rate." Residents were hence fo r th free to guaran- tee, subject to the same reservations and conditions, nonresidents' f ranc liabilities w i th a ma tu r i ty not exceed- ing two years. The c i rcu lar also specified the types of lending in f rancs for wh ich an ex post notification to the Treasury was not requ ired; the exemptions included authorized bank s' loans of francs on a swap basis, with a m a tu r i ty up to three months, to their foreign cor- respondents, and current account advances (although the ceilings agreed on such advances were subject to no t if ica t ion ex post). March. Agreement was reached between the Min- istry of Economy and Finance and leading French banks on the conditions under which the latter could participate in in terna t ional issues of bonds denominated in French francs (Euro-franc bond issues) undertaken by residents or nonresidents. Each syndicate was to be headed by a French bank, the amount of individual issues should not normally exceed F 100 million, and the f r anc proceeds had to be exported through the financial f ranc market within two weeks of collection. Issues would be authorized in accordance w i th a queue system, and an in fo rmal ceiling was initially set of F 300 million a month. (Prior to 1972, only three Euro- f r anc issues had taken place, and the suspension of fur- ther issues had been announced on October 25, 1971.) March 20. The Minister of Economy and Finance announced an early fu r ther relaxation of restrictions on outward direct investment. March 21. The reserve requirements against franc deposits were lowered for resident-owned funds, from 10 per cent to 8 per cent on sight deposits and from 4 per cent to 3 per cent on other deposits. Thus the reserves against nonresidents' franc deposits, which on December 21, 1971 had been brought back into line with those for resident-owned funds, again were higher than those on the latter. March 22. By Decree No. 72-215 the French Gov- ernment declared null and void a decision taken on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 23, 1971 by the terr i tor ial assembly of French Polynesia which had in troduced a tax on non- commercial transfers to any destination outside French Polynesia. April 24. The Bank of France narrowed the exchange rate m a rg ins for the cu r r en c i es of the other member countries of the EEC. The a r rangemen ts were designed to ensu re th at the m a x im um divergence f rom cross parities between any two currenc ies of the member states of the EEC did not exceed 2.25 per cent. Sub- sequently, narrow ma rg ins were app l ied also to the pound s ter l ing, the Dan ish k rone, and the Norwegian krone. May 2. A decision in principle was announced to introduce add i t ional tax f a c i l i t i es for certain ins t i tu t ional investors established in member countries of the enlarged EEC and inve s t ing in French securities. May 5 (e f fec t ive date May 8 ). Payments and receipts in respect of a large number of current transactions were sh i f ted f rom the f inanc ial f r anc market to the official exchange marke t. At the same t ime, restrictions on ce r ta in ou twa rd capital t r an s f e rs and on the export of domestic b ankno t es were eased, as were va r ious exchange con trol requ i remen ts and procedures. The p r inc ipal t ransac t ions sh i f ted to the official market were: t ranspo r ta t ion, in su rance (prem iums and indemn i t ies), comm iss ions and brokerage, paymen ts and receipts re la t ing to in te l lec tual proper ty, professional fees, most other services ( inc lud ing exploration, engi- neering, and techn ical assistance), ren ta ls (for commer- cial use of land, bu i ld ings, mach inery, and vehicles), surrender of export proceeds in advance of the due date set in the commercial contract, mixed import and export transactions (w i th more than 25 per cent in services unspecified), t rans it trade (merchanting), and transactions on commod i ty marke ts abroad. (Previously, transportation, insurance, and commissions and broker- age were eligible for the official market only when part of an import or export t ransac t ion, payable by or to the importer or exporter or his mandataire, and speci- fied on the invoice.) The principal current transactions that continued to be settled th rough the financial f r anc market (unless payments were made by or in favor of governments or specified collectivites publiques were (1) travel expendi- tures of residents and nonresidents (other than clearly specified fares paid by residents); (2) capital service (profits, dividends, interest, and amortization, except interest and amortization on commercial credits); (3) workers' remittances; (4) certain other payments in the personal sphere (wages and salaries, pensions, fam i ly remittances, social security premiums and benefits, and alimony); and (5) rentals for real estate, machinery, and vehicles in noncommercial use. All transactions in for- eign and domestic banknotes and travelers checks also remained in the financial f ranc market. May 5. Increased facilities were made available to FRANCE residents to buy and sell forward on commodity mar- kets abroad; prev ious ly, this was only allowed in excep- tional cases (essen t ia l ly on ly to cover imports of raw ma te r ia ls by indu s t r i al processors). Such transac t ions rema ined l im i ted, however, to the covering of spot pur- chases and sales of commodities (imports, exports, and me rchan t ing ), and foreign exchange for the payment abroad of ma rg ins and deposits cou ld not be purchased in the French fore ign exchange marke t, although it could be borrowed f rom a French authorized bank or abroad. May 5. The conditions were specified under which transit trade and me rchan t ing transactions of residents could be settled, w i thout prior authorization, through the official exchange marke t. For this purpose, trans it trade and merchan t ing were defined as transactions invo lv ing the purchase abroad of a quan t i ty of certain goods and the sale abroad of an equ iva lent quantity acqu ired on the same basis; hence, this circular did not provide for cases in wh ich direct impor ta t ion into France or an Operations Account coun t ry took place. Foreign exchange could be purchased spot or forward, provided that the sales proceeds were sold in the official exchange market, spot or forward, within six months from the date on which foreign currency was pur- chased. The due date of the sales contract could not be later th an 180 days af ter the arrival of the goods at their destination; fore ign exchange received before the due date could be retained un t il that date, at the author- ized bank where the transaction was domiciled. If for- eign cu r rency was bought and sold forward, the matu- rity of the forward purchases could not be more than 180 days prior to the date set for the delivery of the foreign cu r rency that was sold forward. Profits had to be repatriated w i th in one month, to the extent they were not used to offset earlier losses. Applications for trans- actions not meeting the above criteria had to be sub- mitted to the Bank of France. May 5. Financial Franc Accounts could be credited with the f r anc proceeds of French or foreign securities accruing in France to a nonresident through inheritance or donation. May 5. The amount up to which residents could at any time f ree ly and without submission of documents make payments abroad was increased from F 300 to F 1,000 per transfer. May 5. Resident individuals could freely and at any time make gifts (in money or securities) up to F 50,000 for each beneficiary to nonresident relatives, subject to the intervention of a notary public. Applications for larger amounts could be submitted to the Bank of France. May 5. Residents could freely transfer abroad up to F 150,000 for the purchase of real estate (or rights to real estate) as a principal or secondary residence; this right was limited to one acquisition for each family unit. May 5. The making or the liquidation of direct invest- 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE ments abroad by residents were, subject to certain conditions, exempted from prior declaration and, where previously applicable, from prior authorization, pro- vided that the amount involved did not exceed F 1 million a year for each beneficiary firm, and provided that the transactions did not involve holding companies, investment companies, investment trusts, mutual funds, unit trusts, or companies whose purpose it is to facili- tate the financing or treasury func t ions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups. Decree No. 68-1021, as modified by Decree No. 71-144, was amended accordingly. An implementing Order, also of May 5, amended the Order of February 22, 1971 accordingly. May 5. The amount in domestic banknotes that resi- dents traveling to a foreign country for less than 24 hours could take out freely was increased f rom F 50 to F 500 a person a trip. May 5. The basic tourist travel allocation (the equiva- lent of F 3,500 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year) henceforth could be taken up also in the form of travelers checks denominated in French francs. A prior attestation was no longer required for the use of credit cards abroad, but their use remained limited to half the tourist or business travel allocation. The amount of foreign banknotes that nonresident travelers could take out w i thout submission of documentation was increased from F 500 to F 3,500. May 5. The amount below which imports and exports generally were exempt from domiciliation with an authorized bank was maintained at F 10,000 but cer- tain additional types of import and export transac t ions were exempted from this requirement. Furthermore, certain individual importing and exporting firms could obtain dispensation from all domiciliation, their trans- actions being checked by a computer system. The pro- cedures were eased for payments for raw ma ter ial imports and for payments for imports valued at less than F 1,000; the former, which previously could only be settled after customs clearance, could now be paid for against shipping documents, a facility previously available only to importers holding a special authoriza- tion from the Customs Adm in is tra t ion. The max imum value of exports "without payment" was increased f rom F 1,000 to F 10,000. June 6. Circular No. 192 A. F. of the Bank of France specified that the new regu la t ions concerning tourist travel and the import and export of means of payment were applicable also to residents of Operations Account countries. June 12. The Bank of France transmitted to au thor- ized banks a note of the Directorate of the Treasury explaining in more detail how the re laxa t ion of May 5 of the direct investment rules was to be applied. Arb i- trage between the two exchange marke ts was prescribed where the financing involved elements normally eligible for the official exchange market. June 15. Industries facing strong foreign competition 184 (i.e., where both imports and exports exceed 25 per cent of French production) were released from price regulation contracts. June 23-June 28. The exchange market was closed. June 30. An agreement was signed with Tunisia on the protection of French investments in that country. It came into effect immediately. This was the first agree- ment implementing the investment guarantee system provided for by the Loi de Finances of December 1971. July 18. Trading in specified Swiss securities outside the official stock exchanges was permitted. With effect from August 1, this was followed by an oral quotation on the Paris stock exchange. July 21. The m in imum reserve requirements for all types of f ranc deposits were raised; the increase for nonresident-owned deposits was to 12 per cent for sight liabilities other than savings accounts and to 6 per cent for savings accounts and all other liabilities. August 9. The Bank of France issued a note to authorized banks clarifying certain details of the May reorganization of the dual exchange market. No new shifts of transactions between the two exchange markets were involved. The note specified, among other things, that the service of a loan (interest, banking commission, and amortization) had to be effected through the market for which the principal was eligible. September 11. The Bank of France issued a note to authorized banks c lar ify ing that interest on Foreign Accounts in Francs had to be credited to an account of the same type, while interest on Financial Franc Accounts had to be credited to Financial Franc Accounts. September 11. The Bank of France clarified that the May 5 measure allowing residents to purchase a princi- pal or secondary residence abroad, up to an amount of F 150,000, was applicable to acquisitions after May 7, irrespective of whether the resident concerned had on that date already legally acquired a residence abroad. The acquisition of real estate for investment purposes remained subject to prior Bank of France approval. September 15. The interest rates (taux de sortie) appli- cable since July 1, 1971 to medium-term and long-term export credit were reduced. October 16. The National Credit Council empowered the Bank of France to prohibit banks and financial institutions f rom remune ra t ing directly or indirectly any accounts in francs, at sight or with a ma tur i ty of up to 180 days, opened for nonresidents; this authorization did not apply, however, to accounts in the names of (1) physical and jur id ical persons resident in Operations Account countries, or (2) international organizations, central banks, and foreign public financial institutions (for their balances as of September 30, 1972). (The Bank of France did not in troduce this interest prohibi- tion until March 16, 1973.) November 3. At the request of the Malagasy Repub- lic, banknotes issued by the Malagasy Institute of Issue ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution no longer were accepted for credit to Financial Franc Accounts. November 10. A decree was published implementing Article 21 of Law No. 72-650 of July 11, 1972. The decree provided that in Saint Pierre and Miquelon the French f ranc would in 1973 replace the CFA f ranc issued by the CCCE. November 16. Medium-term and long-term export credits eligible for rediscounting at the Bank of France were excluded from the computation of the mandatory reserve requirement against credits extended by banks. November 20. The Bank of France transmitted to authorized banks a note of the Directorate of the Treasury explaining the proper interpretation of some of the regulations governing inward and outward direct investment. The note clarified both the concept of direct investment used in Decree No. 67-78 and the scope of the relaxation measures of May 5, 1972 (Decree No. 72-365). Among the points made were the following: (1) To determine whether an inward investment trans- action by a nonresident or by a foreign-controlled French firm must be considered a direct investment (and hence subject to prior declaration), banks should take into account not only the percentage of the French firm's capital that as a result of the transaction would be held by nonresidents or foreign-controlled ju r id ical persons, but also the existence of other elements that could markedly strengthen the influence that the partici- pation bestowed upon its holders. Such elements were primarily options on all or part of the remaining out- standing shares; loans or guarantees in amoun ts large enough to lead to the assumption that the investor was responsible for the financing of the firm; or a link between the participation and the granting of licenses, patents, or commercial contracts which made the firm dependent on the investor. In case of doubt, banks had to consult the Treasury in writing. FRANCE (2) It had been found that certain outward invest- ments that had been made freely under cover of Decree No. 72-365 could not be considered genuine direct investments because the capital participation of the resident investor was too minor. Therefore, when outward investments (or liquidation of investments) took place involving firms in which the total participa- tion of residents was and would remain a clear minority participation, and when these were declared as outward direct investments, then the Treasury had to be con- sulted as to whether the transaction, by its nature, was entitled to the benefit of the relaxation measures of May 5. Here again, the actual influence of the investor as a result of other elements (options, loans or guaran- tees, patents, licenses or commercial contracts, etc.) would be taken in to account. November 22. The President announced that a revi- sion of certain Franc Area arrangements, including the modalities of certain economic cooperation agreements, was under consideration. The President also announced the cancellation of F 1 billion of debts owed by the Operations Account countries to the French Govern- ment. November 23. A monetary cooperation agreement with the member countries of the BCEAEC was signed which, among other things, provided for the replace- ment of the BCEAEC by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale. December 4. Law No. 72-1069 modified the monop- oly of SEITA (Service d'Exploitation Industrielle des Tabacs et des Allumettes). Henceforth, imports of matches of EEC origin could be undertaken by private importers. December 14. A fu tu res market for coffee was estab- lished in Paris. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Exchange System * No par va lue for the currency of Gabon has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc ,1 wh i ch is o f f ic ia l ly m a in t a in ed at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r a n c. Exchange t ransac t ions in French f r an c s, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, between the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1 'A f r ique Equa tor ia le et du Cameroun (BCEAEC )2 and commercial banks take place at the ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, f ree of comm is- sion charges. Exchange t r an s a c t ions r e l a t ing to fo re ign countries, i. e., coun tr ies o ther t h an France, Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account coun t r ies of the French Franc Area, take place in a d u al exchange m a rk e t, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris exchange ra te for the fo re ign cu r rency concerned in e i ther the off ic ial exchange m a rk et or the f inanc ial f r a nc ma rke t. Se t t lemen ts e l ig ib le for the official exchange market are paymen ts and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other cu r rent transac- tions, as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and fore ign public authorities and public bodies (collectivites publiques). All other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in bank- notes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the BCEAEC, take place through the financial f ranc market at freely fluctuating rates. The principal current pay- ments and receipts channeled through the financial market are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remittances. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 = US$1. With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Territories (except the French Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other coun t r ies, except Gabon i tse l f, are con- sidered fore ign countries, and in pr inc ip le financial rela- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. 1 The CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and the People's Republic of the Congo. 2 On April 1, 1973, the BCEAEC was replaced by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC). 186 t ions on ly w i th foreign coun t r ies are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign F inanc ial Re la t ions in the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance supervises borrow- ing and l e n d i ng ab road, the i s su ing, adve r t is ing, or sale of fo re ign secur i t ies in Gabon, and inwa rd and out- wa rd d i rect i n v e s tm e n t. Exchange con trol is adminis- tered by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance, who has delegated h is approval au tho r i ty for cu r rent pay- men ts to the au tho r ized banks and that w i th respect to the ex ternal pos i t ion of the banks to the BCEAEC. All exchange t r an s a c t ions r e l a t i ng to fo re ign coun t r ies must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i on and au tho r ized banks. Impo rt and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance. Prescription of Currency Gabon is an Operations Account country of the French F ranc A rea, since the BCEAEC m a in t a ins an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the French Treasury; settle- men ts w i th France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun t r i es of the French F ranc Area are made in CFA f rancs, French f r an c s, or the currency of any o ther i n s t i t u te of issue t h at m a i n t a i ns an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th a ll other coun t r ies are u s u a l ly made th rough correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or Finan- cial Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions p e r t a i n i ng to non res ident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAEC bank- notes may be credited to Financial Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAEC agency in L ibrev i l le by au thor ized banks' fore ign corre- spondents. Otherwise, the c red i t ing to nonresident accounts of BCEAEC bankno tes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that m a in t a ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Some imports are proh ib i ted for security or health reasons. Imports of cement and wheat flour from all sources require special authorization. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from member countries of the EEC other than France may be made free ly. All imports f rom non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of fore ign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gabonese Committee. A special licensing procedure is applicable to the import of petroleum products. Global quotas are established by commodity groups for imports f rom all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The global quotas may be used to import goods originating in any of these countries. All import transac t ions re la t ing to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Opera t ions Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to approval. For many types of pay- ment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are perm i t ted free ly when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income acc ru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tour ist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may ob ta in an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remain- ing af ter return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tour- ist and business travel allocations may not be com- bined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAEC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Exports to other countries of rice, corn, tobacco, cotton, diamonds, and m in ing products (except sodium carbonate, manganese, and crude petroleum) require licenses. Gold and uranium may be exported only to France. Exporters may obtain import licenses for additional quan t i t ies of commodities included in the import program and essential to their export activities, up to an amount corresponding to 10 per cent of the total value of their exports during the preceding year. GABON Export t ran sac t ions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Opera t ions Account coun t ry must be surrendered. Export proceeds no rma l ly must be received within 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their desti- na t ion. The proceeds must be collected, and surren- dered if received in a foreign currency, within one mon th of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in for- eign currency surrendered, w i th in a mon th of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require the approval of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, for- eign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securi- ties in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 3 must be declared to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, unless they take 3 Including those made through the in te rmed ia ry of fore ign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON the fo rm of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of und is t r ibu ted prof i ts; the fu ll or partial liquida- tion of such investments also requires declaration to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the mak ing of a direct invest- ment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the M in is ter, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted prof i ts; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The f u ll or par t ial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relin- qu ish ing 01 a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct invest- ment in Gabon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct inves tmen ts are defined as invest- men ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct invest- men t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of for- eign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Gabonese Government and (2) shares s im i lar to secu- rities whose issue, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or p r iva te persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subs id iar ies in Gabon of ju r id i c al persons whose reg- istered off ice is abroad, requ ires prior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this au thor iza t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been ob ta ined, as ind ica ted above; (2) loans d i rec t ly connected w i th the rende r ing of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the financing of commercial transactions e i ther between Gabon and coun tr ies abroad or between fo re ign countries, in which these persons or firms take pa r t; (3) loans con trac ted by registered banks; and (4) loans other th an those mentioned above, when the total am o u nt o u t s t a n d i ng of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l i on for any one borrower. The con trac t- ing of loans re fe r red to u n d er (4) that are free of 4 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or ind i rec t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Gabon of fore ign companies. 188 authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total out- standing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id ical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; (2) other loans, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of au thor iza t ion, and each repayment thereon, mu st be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, except when the to tal ou t s t and ing amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Inves tment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and July 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domes- tic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code provides for five categories of treatment. Three of these app ly to enterprises established in Gabon and whose ac t iv i ty is l im i ted to the national ter- r i tory of Gabon (categories IA, IB, and II, according to the economic impor tance of the enterprise). The other types of t rea tment apply to enterprises established in Gabon whose ma rket inc ludes the terr i tory of two or more states of the Central A f r ican Customs and Eco- nomic Union —UDEAC —(categories III and IV, depend ing on the impor tance of the enterprise). Prefer- en t ial t rea tmen ts IA and IB are granted for a period of up to 10 years. P re fe ren t ial trea tment II is reserved for enterprises of p r ime impo r tance to the country's eco- nom ic development and invo lv ing exceptionally high inves tmen ts; it provides for s tab i l iza t ion of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. P re fe ren t ial t rea tment III inc ludes special import privileges and trea tment IV inc ludes, in add i t ion to the privileges men t ioned above, the advan tage of a found ing agreement (convention d'etablissement). Reques ts for app roval for p re fe ren t ial treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy and Finance, who, a f ter examining the documents, transm i ts them to the Investment Commission. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential trea tmen ts IA, IB, and II are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments III and IV are granted by a cer t if ica t ion of the UDEAC upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In add i t ion to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, or public credit, and of government contracts. Non- Gabonese firms or ind iv idua ls are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of SOGAREM (Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et Exploitation Minieres). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub ject to customs declaration. GABON Changes during 1972 During the year, following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, a number of current trans- actions were shifted from the financial franc market to the official exchange market. The principal current pay- ments and receipts that continued to be channeled through the financial franc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remittances. March 31. Ordinance No. 27 /72 modified Article 27 of the Investment Code. June 10. Ordinance No. 41 /72 provided that all com- panies legally constituted to operate in Gabon were required to transfer to the State, without compensation, 10 per cent of their social cap i ta l, both at the time of establishment and whenever a capital increase took place. Exemptions could be granted by Decree of the Council of Ministers, after consultation with the Invest- ment Committee. Existing companies could after nego- tiations with the Government be covered by a regime provided for by a subsequent Ordinance-Circular No. 2014 of Ju ly 3, 1972. July 4. Decree No. 658 increased the exchange allo- cations for tourist and business travel to foreign countries. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA Exchange Rate System* The par value is 0.426562 gram of fine gold per Gambian Dalasi, corresponding to D 2.08333 = SDR 1 or D 1 = US$0.521143. Since June 28, 1972, however, the authorities, wh i le m a i n t a i n i ng the f ixed relationship between the dalasi and s ter l ing, have not ma in ta ined the exchange rate for o ther currencies w i th in prescribed margins, and therefore all transac t ions, except those in sterling or currencies m a in t a in ing a fixed relationship with sterling, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The Central Bank of The Gambia deals only in sterling and charges a commission of Vw of 1 per cent for buy- ing, or % of 1 per cent for selling, based on the fixed rate of <£ stg. 1 = D 5. The commercial banks deal with customers for spot transactions in sterling at rates within 1 per cent of the Bank's fixed ra te and in other currencies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance, Commerce, and Industry. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area for imports from outside the Area that are covered by spe- cific licenses and, up to specified amounts, for travel expenses and sundry payments outside the Sterling Area. All other sales of non-Sterling Area currencies are sub- ject to the authorization of the Central Bank. The Min- istry of Finance, Commerce, and Indus try is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency The Gambia is a member of the Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory under the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Settle- ments with other Sterling Area countries may be made and received freely in sterling or in any other Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries outside the Sterling Area may be made and received in any non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency, or in dalasis or sterling from nonresident sources. Nonresident Accounts Banking accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of countries outside the * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, The Gambia on February 16 decided to ma in ta in the fixed relationship of D 5 = £ stg. 1, and the dalasi con t inued to float with sterling. Effective March 19, 1973 the fixed relationship to sterling was changed to D4 = £ stg. 1, subject to margins of 1 per cent around the new rate. The currency thus con- t inued to float with sterling. 190 Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. These may be credited with author- ized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for any paymen ts to residents of the Sterling Area, for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-S ter l ing Area currencies. In add i t ion, there is legal provision for authorized dealers to ma in ta in Blocked Accounts under the direction of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is prohibited f r om a ll sources, p r e d om i n a n t ly on social, hea l th, and moral grounds. The import from any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fair domestic p r ic ing. The Gambia Produce Ma rke t ing Board is responsible for rice imports. All other imports are f ree ly pe rm i t ted und er an Open General License if impor ted f rom the fo l low ing countries, but are subject to specific l icens ing if imported f rom other countries: (1) a ll coun t r ies w i t h in the S ter l ing Area; (2) Aus tr ia, Be lg ium, Canada, Denma rk, France, the Federal Repub- lic of G e rm any, Greece, I ta ly, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, No rway, Por tuga l, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the Un i ted States, together w i th the over- seas te r r i to r ies of these countries; and (3) Argentina, B raz i l, Chile, Egypt, I ran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Pa raguay, Peru, Senegal, the Syrian Arab Republic, Th a i l and, U ruguay, Venezuela, and Yugo- s lav ia. Imports from Sterling Area countries may be paid for freely in dalasis or in any other currency of the Sterling Area. Settlement for imports from outside the Sterling Area may be approved by an authorized dealer on pro- duction of evidence of importation for any commodity that is covered by a valid specific import license. For imports from outside the Sterling Area which do not require specific licensing, payment authorization is given by the Central Bank on production of evidence of importation or shipment. Advance payments for imports, whether covered by specific licenses or not, are approved by the Central Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance with the normal practice of the trade. Payments for imports from outside the Sterling Area may be made in dalasis or sterling to an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Payments in currencies of countries out- side the Sterling Area require permission from the Cen- tral Bank except where authorized dealers have been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution delegated powers to authorize travel expenses and sun- dry payments. Such permission by the Central Bank is liberally given in all genuine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the jou rney, authorized dealers may author- ize a basic exchange allowance up to D 750 for each journey but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one calendar year for travel outside the Sterling Area. For business, professional, or official purposes, authorized dealers may provide residents w i th exchange fac i l i t ies up to D 1,750 for any one journey at a rate not exceeding D 125 a day subject to a max imum of D 3,500 in any one calendar year. Any excess over these allowances requires permission from the Central Bank; all applications are approved, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Of the above amoun ts, up to D 250 may be taken in currency notes and coins of countries outside the Ster- ling Area. Irrespective of destination, each traveler leav- ing The Gambia may take out D 75 in Gamb ian and /or sterling currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other cur- rency notes declared by them when en ter ing the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of needs for local consumption, the export to any destination of charcoal, firewood, and crusta- ceans is subject to specific licensing, as is the export of all goods to Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. The export of all other goods to any o ther des t ina t ion is free ly perm i t ted under Open General License. Payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be received within six months from the date of export in a non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency or in dalasis or sterling from an Ex ternal Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in currenc ies of countries out- side the Sterling Area must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. There is no restriction on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. THE GAMBIA Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled. Out- ward transfers may be effected free ly to countries within the Sterling Area but are subject to control to countries outside the Area. At the time of making investments in The Gambia, nonresident investors may apply for an under tak ing as to the authorization of applications for the subsequent repa tr ia t ion of capital; the remittance of profits is freely allowed af ter provision has been made for local taxation. All other applications to transfer capital outside the Sterling Area are dealt with by the Central Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank; such authorization is normally given freely for the purpose of providing working capital to companies registered outside The Gambia for their operations in The Gambia. Gold The impo rt of gold coins m in ted in the United Kingdom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance, Commerce, and Industry; otherwise, gold coins and bul- lion may be imported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central Bank. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1972 June 23. The Gambia ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory of the Sterling Area. For the time being, however, no changes were made in The Gambia's exchange con- trols. June 28: The effective parity relationship between the dalasi and the pound sterling was maintained unchanged at D 5 = <£ stg. 1. As a result, the dalasi began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. July 1. Preferential import duty rates for goods of Commonwealth origin were abolished. July 27. The Gambia announced that it would seek fu ll association with the EEC on the basis of the Yaounde Convention. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY* Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.242806 gram of fine gold per Deutsche Mark, corresponding to DM 3.66 = SDR 1. A central rate of SDR 0.310580 = DM 1 (DM 3.21979 = SDR 1) has been established, and Ge rmanyl avails itself of wider margins of 2% per cent. Germany maintains a maximum margin of 2% per cent for exchange rates in transactions in the official market between the deutsche mark and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the French franc, the Luxem- bourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona. No announced margins are observed for other currencies. On June 29, 1973 the closing selling rate for the U. S. dollar in F rank fu rt was DM 2.4300 per US$1. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Residents may freely enter into forward exchange transactions among themselves and with nonresidents, irrespective of whether there is an underlying transaction. There is no exchange control as such, but Arti- cle 23 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law (Aussenwirtschaftsgesetz) has been invoked to apply direct controls to certain inward capital transactions between residents and nonresidents.2 Germany formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is oper- ated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Trans- portation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fur gewerbliche W i r tscha f t ), the Federal Office for Food and Forestry (Bundesamt fur E rnah rung und Forstwirtschaft), Import and Storage Agencies (E in fuh r- und Vorratsstellen), and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. The Deutsche Bundesbank, the central bank, is in charge of the implementation of the capital controls. The Bank's prior approval is required for transactions involving the sale by residents to nonresidents of German money market paper and all securities of German issuers, all borrowing f rom nonresidents (except borrowing in respect of trade and service transactions when the ma tur i ty is not in excess of customary terms of p a ym e n t ), and for certain other capital transactions between residents and non- * In view of changes that took place in the first half of 1973 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), this survey presents the position on Ju ly 1, 1973. JT he term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, inc lud ing Berlin (W e s t ). 2 The concepts of resident and nonresident are defined in A r t ic le 4, Section 1 of the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Law. 192 residents. The Bundesbank's prior approval is also required for the payment of interest on nonresident- held deposits in Germany and for the sale to nonresi- dents of claims on residents. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body within the banking sys- tem, the Central Capital Market Committee, formulates recommendations with regard to the timing and the terms of domestic and foreign bond issues. Imports and Import Payments The Import List, which is part of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law, comprises a total of 8,384 statis- tical positions. Their treatment after the issuance on July 18, 1973 of the 45th Amendment to the Import List was as fo l lows: 6,803 items could be imported free of license from any country except Rhodesia. Com- modities corresponding to 2,314 positions could be imported f ree of license f rom countries in Country Lists A and B, and commodities covered by 276 posi- tions could be imported free of license only from countries in Country List A.3 Certain petroleum pro- ducts (7 positions) required a license irrespective of origin. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community were permitted within the framework of a global quota of 5.5 million tons a year. Over 1,100 statistical items were covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC; most of these were subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. De facto liberalization was extended to certain com- modities (1,837 statistical items) when originating in and purchased in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia,, Hungary, Poland, Romania, or the U. S. S. R., and, since the first half of 1973, also when originating in and purchased in Albania, ma in land China, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, or North Viet-Nam. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, provided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely (A ML A 4 p rocedu re ). On July 18, 1973 many of the items concerned were liberalized de jure. Imports not sub ject to licensing require only an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundes- bank, which serves as documentation .5 For imports still subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction (w i th certain 3 Countries in List A are those of the former OEEC area; coun- tries in List C are the CMEA countries, mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and Nor th Viet-Nam; and countries in List B com- prise those included neither in List A nor in List C. Lists A and B are con ta ined in the Import List and List C is part of the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Ordinance. Rhodesia is not included in any of the three coun try lists. 4 Ausschreibungen m it lau fender An t rags te l lung. 5 A d i f fe rent type of import declaration is requ ired for some six items that have been made subject to special supervision by the EEC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exceptions, such as foods imported by tourists, sam- ples, gifts, and small parcels), an individual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschreibung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in rela- tion to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are permanently open (AMLA pro- cedure). Payments for imports are free, even if the under- lying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transactions may, in principle, be carried out freely but are subject to license when the goods originate in countries on Country List C (see footnote 3 ). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license, except to Rhodesia. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of pay- ment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are sub- ject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways traffic; transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the production of motion pictures in association with nonresidents; and certain contracts with nonresidents pertaining to motion-picture films.6 Exports and Export Proceeds W i th few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out free ly. For all goods, an export notification, for statistical purposes, is required. Certain exports — mostly strategic goods and agr icu l tural commodities subject to EEC regulations —are subject to ind iv idual licensing. The customs au thor i t ies exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Claims in excess of DM 20,000 that have been overdue for more than three mon ths and prepayments in excess of DM 10,000 must be reported. Prepayments earlier than cus tomary in the trade con- cerned may not be accepted unless the prior approval of the Bundesbank is ob ta ined; such approval is not no rma l ly given. c Res t r ic t ions are app l ied on ly to the a c q u i s i t i on f rom non re s iden ts of r igh ts to films that are to be shown in the original German-speak- ing version or in a Ge rman - synch ron ized ve r s ion, the acqu i s i t ion of r igh ts to f i lms of any k i nd o r ig in a t ing in CMEA coun t r ie s, and the acceptance of film services from CMEA countries. FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of List C countries (see footnote 3) of con- structional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture, insofar as such assistance is for the pro- duction of goods whose export requires a license. There are in principle no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, prepayments earlier than customary in the trade concerned may not be accepted unless the prior approval of the Bundesbank is obtained; such approval is not normally given. Receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license, except to Rhodesia. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval, although a system of voluntary coordination of issuing banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Committee. Securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents, or on leg- acies located abroad and inherited by residents. Resi- dents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Most types of capital inflows are restricted. The prior approval of the Bundesbank is required for borrowing f rom nonresidents (the principal exemption being for commercial credit not exceeding the customary terms of t r a d e ), for sales to nonresidents of all types of secu- rities of German issuers (a l though banks have been gran ted general licenses enab l ing such sales to the extent of the proceeds accruing at each bank to nonresidents f rom the sale, amortization, and redemption of Ger- man securities), for the supp ly of assets by nonresidents to enterprises in Ge rmany ( inc lud ing the affiliates of nonresident firms), and for the sale to nonresidents of claims on residents. Licenses are generally issued restrictively. Nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Ge rmany for personal use do not require approval. Interest payable to nonresident holders of fixed-interest securities of Ge rman issuers is subject to a w i thho ld ing tax of 25 per cent ("coupon tax"). A cash deposit requirement is applied to certain borrow ing by residents f rom nonresidents. The deposit must be lodged w i th the Bundesbank in deutsche mark for the dura t ion of the loan and is non in teres t-bear ing. The rate of deposit is 50 per cent of the liabilities covered. These are in p r inc ip le all loans or other credits taken up d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly from nonres iden ts; 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY credits for this purpose are defined as all transac t ions and acts that in economic terms represent the tak ing up of credit. Exemp t ions f rom the deposit requ irement inc lude ( 1) an allowance of DM 50,000 for each debtor, by which the mon th ly average of the liabilities subject to the deposit regulations is reduced; (2) an allowance of 20 per cent of the debtor's ou ts tand ing export claims, which is reduced by the amount of the exemption under (7) below; (3) liabilities resu l t ing f r om payments terms and credit related to the supply of goods or services by a nonres ident to a resident, provided these terms or credits are customary in the trade concerned, or resulting f rom the acceptance of similarly customary advance paymen t s; (4) liabilities under credits related to certain ou tward direct invest- men t; (5) liabilities resu l t ing f rom certain debt in s t ru- ments of types admissible for official listing on a Ger- man stock exchange; (6) most types of liabilities of credit institutions, provided they are either expressly exempted f rom the Bundesbank's m in imum reserve requirements or admissible for compensation und er those requirements, but not deposit liabilities with ma tur i t ies of four years or more and certain other liabilities; and (7) liabilities that had arisen before March 1, 1972, provided they resulted f rom contracts or transactions concluded before Janua ry 1, 1972. For the purposes of the cash deposit requirement, German aff i l ia tes of nonresidents are considered residents and affiliates abroad of residents are also considered residents. When credits are renewed, the applicability of the cash deposit is determined by the renewal dates. Any changes in the rate of cash deposit normally are applicable also to existing borrowings. Banks are subject to differential m in imum reserve requirements on both the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years and the growth of those liabilities; the cumulative effect of these two reserve requirements is that, depending on the type of liability, reserves corresponding to 90-100 per cent of any new nonresident liabilities must be lodged with the Bundesbank. The principal exemption is for banks' foreign currency borrowings that are immediately reinvested abroad. Banks are not norma l ly permitted to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents (o ther than savings account bal- ances up to DM 50,000 held by nonresident individ- u a l s ); the leading banks levy a negative interest rate, a commission, or some s im i lar charge on such balances. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any fo rm at home and abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. There is a free gold market in F rank fu r t. Imports require a license from the Federal Office for Trade and Industry when the gold is purchased in or originates in Rhodesia or, in certain circumstances, in a country on Country List C. With these exceptions, imports and exports by 194 residents and nonresidents of gold in any form are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of unworked gold and gold alloys are free of customs du ty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank and imports of gold coins that are legal tender, including sovereigns, are exempt f rom this tax and f rom customs du ty; imports of other gold coins are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent or, where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold value, at a rate of 5.5 per cent. Domestic purchases of gold (a l loys and coins that are not legal tende r) are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Commercial impor ts and exports of articles con ta in ing gold are sub- ject to the general fo re ign trade regu la t ions and in most cases are liberalized. Changes during 1972 January L The cash deposit law (Bardepotgesetz) of December 23, 1971 came in to force. It amended the Foreign Trade and Payments Law and empowered the adm in is t ra t ion to requ ire residents, in c lud ing banks, to lodge for a certain period non in te res t -bea r ing cash deposits in deutsche mark w i th the Bundesbank cor- responding to at most 50 per cent of their loans and other credits taken up directly or ind i rec t ly f rom non- residents, other than liabilities resu l t ing f rom normal in terna t ional transactions in goods and services. Branches and subsidiaries in Ge rmany of nonresident firms would for purposes of the deposit requ irement be considered as ju r id ica l ly independen t. Exempt f rom the requirement would be any liabilities against which m in imum reserves had to be held w i th the Bundesbank. January 7. A 10 per cent reduc t ion in the m i n im um reserve requ iremen ts against banks' domestic liabilities became effective; the two reserve ratios against the level and the growth of banks' fore ign liabilities remained unchanged. January L The de facto liberalization of imports f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, and Romania under the AMLA procedure was extended to another 148 statistical items. January 6. The official quo ta t ion for the Japanese yen, which had been suspended since September 7, 1971, was resumed. February 24. An exchange risk insurance system came into force. It was designed to protect exporters who might be adversely affected by the fluctuations of the deutsche mark rate and provided cover against exchange rate fluctuations of more than 3 per cent on long-term contracts denom ina ted in foreign currency. Eligible for cover were export transactions concluded on or after Janua ry 1, 1972, invoiced in U. S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Swiss francs and having a maturity in excess of two years. No cover was granted for the first two years of any contract. The exchange rate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution insured was the m idd le rate o f f ic ia l ly quoted on the F r a n k f u rt exchange for the currency concerned on the last day of the uncovered two-year period of the con- tract. The expor ter would bear any exchange loss up to 3 per cent, and the Federal Government any excess; the exporter cou ld re ta in any exchange prof it up to 3 per cent but would have to t ran s fer to the Govern- ment any excess. The p rem ium was set at 0.6, 0.65, or 0.7 per cent per a n n um, depend ing on the other types of export risk insu red jo in t ly w i th the exchange rate risk. Cover was provided by the Hermes Kreditversiche- rungs A. G. March 1. The m i n im um reserve ratio on the growth of banks' fore ign l iab i l i t ies was increased f rom 30 per cent to 40 per cent. The base on which this growth was calculated was changed f r om f o ur re tu rn dates in Octo- be r /November 1970 to the correspond ing dates in Octo- be r /November 1971, w i th the proviso that any result- ing reduction in the basis amount could not exceed 20 per cent of the November 1970 base level. March 1. The Federal Government issued the 21st Ordinance Am end ing the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance. As a result, the cash deposit requirement (see below) came in to force on the same day. At the same time, the Bundesbank, acting with the approval of the Minister of Economics and Finance, established the rate of deposit at 40 per cent with immediate effect. March 1. A cash deposit requirement on certain borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents (essentially borrowing by nonbanks) was introduced. The deposit had to be lodged with the Bundesbank in deutsche mark and was noninterest-bearing. The rate of deposit was set at 40 per cent of the liabilities covered. These were all loans or other credits taken up directly or indirectly from nonresidents; credits for this purpose were defined as all transactions and acts that in economic terms represented the tak ing up of credit. Exemptions f rom the deposit requirement included ( 1) an allowance of DM 2 million for each debtor, by which the mon th ly average of the liabilities subject to the deposit regu la t ions was reduced; (2) an allow- ance of 20 per cent of the debtor's ou ts tand ing export claims; (3) l iab i l i t ies resu l t ing f rom paymen ts terms and credit related to the supply of goods or services by a nonresident to a resident, provided these terms or credits were customary in the trade concerned, or result- ing f rom the acceptance of similarly customary advance payments; (4) liabilities under credits related to cer- tain outward direct inves tmen t; (5) liabilities resulting from the purchase by nonresidents of certain debt instruments of types admissible for official listing on a German stock exchange ( inc lud ing domestic bearer bonds and domestic bonds payable to o rd e r ); (6) most types of liabilities of credit institutions, provided they were either expressly exempted f rom the Bundesbank's m in imum reserve requirements or admissible for com- pensation under those requirements; and (7) liabilities FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY that had arisen before March 1, 1972, provided they resulted f rom contracts or transactions concluded before J a n u a ry 1, 1972. April 16. M i n im um reserve requirements against banks' external sight l iab i l i t ies had to be computed on the basis of daily averages rather than, as previously, on f o ur week ly key days in each mon th. The measure was not applicable to credit institutions whose liabilities subject to the reserve requirements were less than DM 10 m i l l ion. April 24. The Bundesbank narrowed the exchange rate margins for the currencies of the other member countries of the EEC. The arrangemen ts were designed to ensure that the m ax imum divergence f rom cross- parities between any two currencies of the member states of the EEC did not exceed 21A per cent. (On May 1 these arrangements were extended to the pound sterling and the Danish krone. For the fo rmer currency they were suspended on June 23; for the latter currency they were suspended on June 27, but restored on October 11. With effect f rom May 23, narrower mar- gins were also applied to the Norwegian krone.) May 31. The Bundesbank decided to raise m in imum reserve requirements against banks' domestic liabilities by 8 per cent w i th effect f rom Ju ly 1 but to leave the two deposit requ iremen ts on fore ign liabilities unchanged. This decision was amended on June 29 (see Ju ly 1, be low ). June 15. Banks' foreign currency liabilities to non- residents, the equivalent of which was reinvested abroad to establish foreign currency claims —except in con- nection with a Bundesbank swap transaction —were exempted by Bundesbank Communication No. 5011/72 f rom the m in imum reserve requirements. (Since Octo- ber 1970 the use of this offset-right had been limited to interest arbitrage transactions involving only the same foreign currency, where first, recycling took place immediately, for the same ma tur i ty, and for the same and undivided amount, and second, the resident bank and the foreign customer were not affiliated; the latter condition was maintained .) At the same time, the exemption f rom the m in imum reserve requirements for credits taken up abroad by German banks on behalf of their customers to fu l f i ll payments obligations abroad resulting f rom commercial transactions was restricted to credits taken up on behalf of resident customers. June 23. The exchange markets were closed. They reopened on June 28. June 29. The Government, invok ing Article 23 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law, issued the 22nd Ordinance Amend ing the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance. The prior approval of the Bundesbank was required with effect f rom June 29 for the acquisition by nonresidents, against payment, of domestic fixed-interest bearer bonds and bonds payable to order (inldndische Inhaber- und Orderschuldverschreibungen) i.e., deut- sche mark denominated and foreign currency denom- 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY inated bearer bonds and registered bonds when issued by a resident German issuer (not "foreign" bonds, i.e., bonds of non-German issuers, whether denominated in deutsche mark or foreign cu r r en cy ); the measure applied to transactions in primary and secondary mar- kets, in Germany or abroad, and to nonresidents irre- spective of nationality. Applications would not normally be granted. (Since May 9, 1971 nonresidents had already needed special authorization for all purchases f rom residents of domestic money market paper (including treasury bills and bills of exchange) and for purchases of domestic fixed-interest securities in which the resident seller undertook an obligation to reacquire the securities later under a fixed-price repurchase agreement (en pension transactions). Certain nonresident physical per- sons of German nationality were exempt f rom all these regulations.) July 1. The rate of the cash deposit requirement was increased by a Bundesbank order from 40 per cent to 50 per cent (the maximum provided for under existing legislation), and the standard exemption available to each debtor was reduced f rom DM 2 million to DM 0.5 million by the 22nd Ordinance Amending the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance. July 1. A reporting requirement was introduced for the assignment by residents to nonresidents, against payment, of claims from loans or from other credits; exempt was the assignment of DM 500,000 or less in a calendar month (22nd Ordinance Amending the Foreign Trade and Payments O rd inance ). July 1. The m in imum reserve ratios against banks' domestic liabilities were raised by 20 per cent (instead of 8 per cent as decided on May 31, see above ). The m in imum reserve requirements against the level of external liabilities were raised from a range of 13.5- 31.7 per cent (depending on the type of liability and the size and location of the b a n k) to un i fo rm rates of 40 per cent for sight liabilities, 35 per cent for time liabilities, and 30 per cent for savings deposits. The reserve ratio on the growth of external liabilities was increased f rom 40 to 60 per cent. Taken together these measures implied that banks had to put up total reserve deposits corresponding to 90-100 per cent against any new nonresident-owned deposits. The additional amount in m i n im um reserves requ ired against domestic and foreign liabilities was about DM 8 billion, July 5. A long-term trade and economic cooperation agreement was signed w i th the U. S. S. R. It came into effect immediately. July 5. The U. S. S. R. was accorded the same degree of de facto import liberalization already enjoyed by other Eastern European countries. For indus tr ial com- modities, the degree of liberalization was increased f r om about 24 per cent to about 84 per cent. July 5. The G e rm an inv e s tm ent compan ies belonging 196 to the BVI Association voluntarily decided not to sell to nonresidents any securities issued by German insti- tutions for collective investment whose holdings included more than a negligible proportion of domestic bonds. July 6. The Bundesbank addressed letters concerning the defense against foreign funds to the associations of the credit industry, the German branches of foreign banks, and the associations of the insurance industry. The recipients were requested to refrain from taking up foreign funds through transactions not subject to cash deposit or m in imum reserve requirements nor sub- ject to the approval requirement for the sale of secu- rities. Transactions they were expected to avoid were particularly the sale to nonresidents of claims on resi- dents, the sale to nonresidents of "foreign" deutsche mark bonds from the institutions' own portfolios, the sale to nonresidents of certain German collective invest- ment securities, and the passing on to residents of for- eign credits smaller than the DM 500,000 cash deposit exemption (or the giving of guarantees on such credits). July 11. The Central Capital Market Committee decided on a temporary suspension of new foreign deutsche mark bond issues on the German capital market. The suspension ended on August 30. July 17. The Finnish markka was officially quoted. July 19. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York resumed operations in defense of the U. S. dollar by offering deutsche mark in the New York marke t. (Some such sales also took place in August 1972 and in the first two months of 1973.) July 24. The swap arrangement between the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Bundesbank was placed on a fu ll stand-by basis, as a result of the liqui- dation of the last ou ts tand ing Bundesbank claim. July 31. Rules prescribed by Bundesbank Communi- cations Nos. 8001/72 and 8002/72 of June 30, 1972 came into effec t. Add i t ional reporting requirements in respect of the ir assets and liabilities were imposed on credit ins t i tu t ions with branches abroad. The new requirements included more detailed repor t ing in respect of credit granted to residents by branches abroad of resident credit ins t i tu t ions. August 1. The m in imum reserve ratios against banks' domestic liabilities were raised by 10 per cent. The additional funds sterilized amoun ted to about DM 3 b i l l ion. August 26. The Government introduced a bill which would reduce the annual tar iff quota for imports of coal f rom non-ECSC countries f rom 7 million tons to 5.5 million tons. September 6. The Bundesbank announced that it would upon application grant "collective authorizations" to resident credit institutions, in the form of a "nonresi- dents' quota" for each bank, enabling within certain limits the sale to nonresidents of domestic bearer bonds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and bonds payable to order. These authorizations did not cover sales of securities with four years or less remaining to maturity, and amounts paid by resident banks for the purchase of such securities could not be included in its "nonresidents' quota." Each financial institution's quota was calculated as follows: the sum of the amoun ts which the ins t i tu t ion in question a f ter the g ran t ing of the "collective authorization" credited to its nonresident customers in respect of the purchase, amortization, or redemption of the types of domestic bonds concerned (if held in or transferred to nonresi- dents' security deposits with the same in s t i tu t ion ), m inus the sum of the current stock exchange values of such securities sold by the same ins t i tu t ion to non- residents. September 13. A Tax Evasion Law was enacted. It subjected to certain German taxes the income and assets of German na t iona ls establishing a second domicile abroad and the prof i ts of certain foreign-based holding companies owned by German firms. September 19. The requ irement of an import declara- tion was abolished for a number of commodities. In addition, some other goods previously free of license on ly for countries in Lists A and B became free of license also when originating in countries of List C. As a result, commodities corresponding to about 5,250 of the 8,300 statistical items of the Import List could be imported free of both import declaration and import license from any coun t ry in Country Lists A, B, and C (i.e., f rom all countries except Rhodes ia ). At the same time, an import license ceased to be required for those commodities that could already be imported free of license when impor ted directly from coun tr ies in Lists A, B, and C but did requ i re a license when country of purchase and coun t ry of origin were in d i f fe rent regions ( the region of Coun t ry Lists A and B as against the region of List C ). September 28. A new type of import dec lara t ion pro- cedure came in to effect for commodities sub ject to special import con trol r equ i r em en ts in accordance w i th EEC decisions. October 27. It was a n n o u n c ed th at the de facto l ibe ra l iza t ion of i n d u s t r i al commod i t ies o r ig in a t ing in Eastern Eu ropean coun tr ies was being increased by the add i t ion of about 400 i tems to those eligible for the AMLA procedure. This measure came in to effect on November 10. November 30. Domestic credit i n s t i t u t i o ns were requ ired to report m o n t h ly to the Bundesbank on the assets and l iab i l i t ies of the ir foreign branches. The requ irement app l ied to all Ge rman credit ins t i tu t ions wh ich, either alone or in pa r tne rsh ip with other German banks, held a ma jo r i ty interest, whe ther directly or indirectly, in credit in s t i tu t ions abroad (Bundesbank Commun ica t ion No. 8006 /72 ). FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY NOTE. —The following changes took place in the first half of 1973. January 1. The 24th Ordinance (of December 6, 1972) Amending the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance came into effect. The exemption from the cash deposit requirement available to each debtor was reduced from DM 500,000 to DM 50,000. Three new exemptions were created; one related to certain liabil- ities resulting from the operations of German banks' branches abroad. January 3. Bund e sb ank Commun ica t ion No. 7001/73 clarified the treatment to be accorded to the acquisition and disposal of domestic bearer and order bonds by domestic aff i l ia tes of nonresidents ( in c lud ing branches in Ge rmany of foreign b a n k s ). Although under Article 4, Section 1, Paragraph 3 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law such aff i l ia tes were considered residents if they had their management and accounts in Germany, the acts referred to were to be treated as transactions of a nonresident unless they clearly fell within the business field of the resident affiliate. Certain basic rules were given, and these were applicable also to trans- actions in German money market paper. January 25. The Bundesbank revised and standard- ized its procedures for open market sales of Bundes- bank notes (U-Schatze) to private individuals. As pre- viously, such notes could not be purchased by non- residents. February 2. The Cabinet announced additional measures against capital inflows, to become effective on February 5 (see b e low ). It also stated that a bill would be introduced to increase the max imum permissible rate of cash deposit f rom 50 per cent to 100 per cent. (This new au thor i ty was enacted on February 22, but by Ju ly 1, 1973 had not been invoked .) February 5. The 25th Ordinance (of February 2, 1973) Am e n d i ng the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance came in to force. An au thor iza t ion f rom the Bund e sb ank was required for the fo l low ing: (1) the acquisition by nonresidents f rom residents, against pay- men t, of any type of domestic secur i ty; (2) the con- t rac t ing of loans and other credits f rom nonresidents by residents, in c lud ing the use of terms of payment in excess of no rmal commercial practice; and (3) the sup- ply of assets (noncred it t ran s fe rs in the form of work- ing capital or fixed assets) by nonresidents to enterprises in Ge rmany, inc lud ing the nonresident's affiliates in the te r r i to ry of the Federal Repub l ic. The principal effect was that sales of German shares and " inves tment certif- icates" to nonresidents, borrow ing by residents f rom nonres iden ts, and certain inwa rd direct inve s tment opera t ions became subject to app rova l. The fo l low ing were exempt f r om app rova l: ( 1) transactions effected a f ter February 4, 1973 which, in the case of credits, do not exceed a total value of DM 50,000 or, in the case of provision w i th capital 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY assets, do not exceed DM 500,000; (2) the tak ing up of loans and other credits, in so far as they are covered by the Bundesbank 's m i n im um reserve regu la t ions or are expressly exempted f rom the Bunde sbank 's m i n im um reserve requ i remen ts or adm iss ib le for compensation u n d er these requ i remen ts, or relate to cer ta in trans- actions by Ge rman subsidiaries abroad, to savings deposits w i th bu i ld ing societies, or to cap i ta l-form ing inves tment by fore ign workers in Ge rmany; and ( 3) the u t i l iza t ion of terms of payment customary in the trade concerned, credits connected with certain deliveries of goods or services w i th ma tu r i t ies corre- sponding to terms of payment customary in the t rade concerned, and the u t i l iza t ion of customary advance paymen ts for deliveries of goods or services. As regards inward direct inves tmen t, the restriction on noncredit transfers was applied ma in ly to a f f i l ia tes in Ge rmany that were not legally independent and authorization was no rma l ly gran ted except where the operation was considered to invo lve an inflow of spec- ulative capital. Direct inves tment by means of equip- ment, intellectual property, know-how, etc., was also generally permitted. Inward commercial credits in excess of the normal terms of payment were restricted, and normally no firm or ind iv idual was permitted to borrow f rom nonresidents more than DM 50,000 (counting all credits taken up af ter February 4, 1973) unless these new borrowings were in the form of liabilities that were exempt from the cash deposit. February 12. The exchange marke ts were closed. They reopened on February 14. February 14. A new central rate of DM 2.9003 = US$1 was established. It replaced the central rate of DM 3.2225 = US$1 that had been established on December 21, 1971. The new central rate represented the maintenance of the value of the currency in terms of SDRs. Germany continued to avail itself of wider margins. February 23. An amendment to the Foreign Trade and Payments Law was enacted. The max imum permis- sible rate of the cash deposit requirement was increased f rom 50 per cent to 100 per cent, but the Government did not invoke this authority to increase the ruling 50 per cent rate. The applicability of the requirement, previously not expressed in terms of the specific legal form of the borrowing, was explicitly extended to funds received f rom nonresidents in connection with the issuing, endorsing, or accepting of bills for nonresidents. February 23. Sales and purchases of German shares were included in the "nonresidents' quota" arrangements of September 1972 (see above). In addition, the Bundesbank issued to banks, upon application, separate global authorizations for the use by nonresidents of sub- scription rights, conversion rights, etc. March 1. The m in imum reserve requirements on the domestic liabilities of banks were raised by 15 per cent 198 rate of DM 1 = for sight and time liabilities and by 7.5 per cent for savings deposits. There was no change in the two reserve requ i remen ts against foreign liabilities. The measure was expected to sterilize about DM 5 billion. March 2. The exchange marke ts were closed. They reopened on March 19. March 19. A new central SDR 0.294389 was established. March 19. G e rm any hence fo r th ma in ta ined a maxi- mum margin of 2% per cent for exchange rates in transactions in the off ic ial ma rket between the deutsche mark and the Belgian f ranc, the Danish krone, the French f r an c, the Luxembourg f ranc, the Ne ther lands guilder, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona. No announced margins were observed for other currencies. April 4. New procedures were announced for the observation of the development of impor ts f rom state trading countries and for the exam ina t ion of their prices. They replaced the a r rangemen ts of October 23, 1970. May 1. The m in imum reserve requ iremen ts on banks' foreign liabilities were tightened. The exemption for banks' foreign currency liabilities to nonresidents no longer applied to liabilities whose countervalue served to secure claims on affiliates abroad of resident firms. With effect f rom May 18, the exemption from the m in imum reserve requirements for credits taken up abroad by German banks on behalf of their customers to fu l f i ll paymen ts obligations abroad was amended by the deletion of the reference to the customary terms of payment. This was done in the expectation that banks would alert their customers that the credits concerned might be subject to the cash deposit requirement. May 19. An agreement concerning the development of economic, industrial, and technical cooperation was signed with the U. S. S. R. It came in to effect imme- diately. May 23. The 26th Ordinance Amend ing the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance was issued. The existing exemption for certain tied financing credits taken up abroad by importers was extended to those cases where advance payments to the fo re ign supp l ier must be made du r ing the production period, prior to the delivery of goods and related services. The additional exemption was available only where such payments were cus- tomary in the trade concerned. June 14. The 27th Ordinance Amend ing the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance was issued and came into effect immediately. The cession to nonresidents, against payment, of claims on residents became sub- ject to approval by the Bundesbank. Exempt were, inter alia, sales up to DM 50,000 per resident per cal- endar year. June 26. The Bundesbank announced that with effect f rom Ju ly 1, the reference level for the calculation of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the growth of the fore ign l iab i l i t ies of banks was being reduced by 25 per cent. This action was expected to increase the required reserves by about DM 1.5 billion. June 29. A cen t ral ra te of SDR 0.310580 — DM 1 (DM 3 .21979 = SDR 1) was established. The 21A per cent max imum ma rg in between the deutsche mark and the currencies of Belgium, Denma rk, France, Luxem- bourg, the Ne ther lands, No rway, and Sweden was maintained. As previously, no announced margins were observed for other currencies. FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.450182 gram of fine gold per Ghana ian Cedi, corresponding to 0 1 = SDR 0.506579 or 0 1 = US$0.55. Since February 7, 1972, however, the Bank of Ghana has dealt at an official rate of 0 1 = US$0.78. The Bank of Ghana quotes rates for the U. S. dollar and sterling; on December 30, 1972 the Bank's selling rates were 0 3.01 per <£ stg. 1 and 0 1.28 per US$1. The authorized banks may arrange exchanges of Ghanaian currency for any foreign cur- rency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward, but they do not maintain foreign exchange balances, receiving their requirements from the Bank of Ghana on a day-to-day basis. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Min- istry of Trade, Industries, and Tourism is empowered, on behalf of that Ministry, to prohibit, regulate, or license the import and export of all goods. Applica- tions by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for ind iv idual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. Applications that have been endorsed by the competent ministry or agency are then for- warded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade, Industries, and Tourism. Appli- cations by the commercial houses for the import of consumer and investment goods are submitted direct to the M in is try of Trade, Industries, and Tourism. The Controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program approved by the M in is try of Trade, Industries, and Tourism in consulta- tion with other ministries and government agencies. The issue of import licenses under the program is super- vised by the Import Licenses Advisory Committee, com- posed of representatives of the Bank of Ghana, various ministries, the A rm y, and the Chamber of Commerce. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana adm in is ters the allocation of exchange for pay- ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Ghana has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in te rms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a coun t ry of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in cedis * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. do l lar was be ing deva lued, Gh ana ma in ta ined the va lue of its cur- rency in terms of gold. On Feb rua ry 15, the rate for the U. S. dollar became £ 1.15 = US$1. 200 through Sterling Area Accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, includ- ing payments for imports, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Receipts f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in cedis from a Foreign Account, in sterling from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. However, settle- ments related to transactions covered by bilateral pay- ments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and /or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.1 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to nonpayments agreement coun- tries must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among 12 listed currencies) or in U. S. dollars, pounds sterling, or deutsche mark. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in cedis held by residents of countries within the Sterling Area other than Ghana are desig- nated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers from Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Sterling Area countries, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for inward payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident accounts ma in ta ined under the pro- visions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward 1 Ghana ma in ta ins such agreements with Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Egypt, Guinea, Poland, Roman ia, U. S. S. R., Upper Volta, and Yugoslavia. The agreements w i th Cuba and Guinea are at present inoperative. Cer ta in settlements between Ghana and Dahomey are channeled through accounts wh ich the Bank of Ghana and a com- mercial bank in Dahomey ma in ta in with each other. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA only for commodities not covered by any open general license nor by the restricted list or the banned list. Except for aid imports or imports under bilateral payments agreements, import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be imported; they merely specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Exchange for payment of approved imports is granted freely by the Bank of Ghana, but certain arrears have arisen with respect to matured 180-day trade credits established before February 7, 1972. Importers are required to establish confirmed letters of credit through Ghanaian commercial banks when placing orders, and most imports are made on a sight basis. Commercial banks usually require importers to make downpayments on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. Banks are forbidden to make payments against a letter of credit or a bank d ra ft unless the import documents include a Clean Report of Findings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited, a commercial firm which inspects commodities for price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or ship- ment. Some imports are subject to a sales tax of one pesewa a pound (which is equivalent to about 10 per cent ad valorem on rice and about 18 per cent on suga r ). Many imports are subject to a levy of payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of another category, the purpose of which is to receive funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia, South Africa, Namibia (South West A f r ica) and the Portuguese Monetary Area are not permitted. A large part of the import trade is carried out by private importers who must be registered and have to pay a flat registration fee of 0 50 a year. Unregistered importers pay a fee of 0 25 a year which entitles them to import goods on an open general license only. Other imports are made by state agencies. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, cer- tain commodities of a luxu ry character, and certain goods deemed ha rm ful to health or public order are severely restricted. These are specified in a List of Restricted Imports comprising some 70 items and in a List of Banned Imports inc lud ing 80 items. Applications for the importation of items on the restricted list may be approved under special circumstances, while under no circumstances are applications entertained for items on the banned list. Certain basic items such as rice and sugar, which appear on the restricted list, may be imported on ly by the Logistics Committee (Essential Commodities Comm i t t e e ). There are three open gen- eral licenses wh ich pe rm it any impo r ter to import freely f rom any coun t ry trade samples, personal or household effects, small g if ts, single copies of publications, domes- tic pets, head loads of food s tu f fs f rom neighboring coun- tries, fish caught by Ghana ian -owned vessels, and reim- ports. All other items require ind iv idual licenses, which are of two k ind s: specific import licenses and special unnumbe red licenses. All goods not covered by an open general license must be covered by a specific license, but where satisfactory evidence can be produced to the effect that p aym ent for such goods has been made and therefore no t rans fer of fore ign exchange is involved, they can be imported under "special unnumbered licenses." Special unnumb e r ed licenses are not normally issued for impor ts in commercial quantities, though they may occasionally be issued to cover commercial imports of n o n l u x u ry commodities. They are available GHANA o n ly to persons hav ing an a n n u al disposable income of at least 0 1,000; th is personal rem i t tance quota is in tended to cover a ll personal and f am i ly requirements and comm i tm en ts ou ts ide G h a n a, inc lud ing leave expenses, t r av el for h e a l th purposes, educa t ion, gifts, in su rance p rem ium s, subscriptions, and donations. Rem i t tances of income by non -Ghana ian self-employed persons are also l im i t ed to 40 per cent of their net a n n u al ea rn ing s, up to a m a x im um of 0 3,000. Nonres ident companies are, with the exception of companies f inanced w i th locally raised capital, per- m i t ted to t r an s f er abroad f ree ly the ir net profits a f ter tax; at present, however, prof it transfers are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that are either fo re ign owned or owned or controlled by nonres iden ts and that have been f inanced with locally raised capital is not permitted. The basic exchange allocations for tourist and busi- ness travel have been suspended. Travel allowances are determined by the Bank of Ghana in the light of the applicant's requ iremen ts. Residents of any nationality (except ch i ldren under two years of age, diplomats, and UN pe rsonne l) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a t ravel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may be permitted to take with them additional foreign currency equivalent to 0 236.50, provided that not more than the equivalent of 0 47.30 is taken in bankno tes in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to 0 47.30, but may be spent only on Ghanaian aircraft and ships. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency imported and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South Afr ica, Namibia (South West A f r i c a ), and the Portuguese Mone tary Area are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural prod- ucts are exported through the Cocoa Marketing Board, and diamonds th rough the Diamond Marke t ing Cor- poration. Norma l ly, specific export licenses are required. Exporters are required to collect and repatriate the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of ship- ment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be sur- rendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an author- ized bank. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely, provided that their exportation is not prohibited by the issuing country. The import of Ghanaian cur- rency notes is prohibited, with the exception of the reim- portation of notes taken out previously by the same traveler and recorded in his passport. 202 Capital Foreign inves tment in Ghana requires prior approval by the M in i s t ry of F inance and Economic Planning. The Capital Inves tmen ts Act, which was promulgated in Ap r il 1963, provides for the g r an t ing of special bene- fits to specified ex is t ing investments as well as to new investments .- Under the act, approval may be granted to inves tmen ts that con t r ibu te to the development and u t i l iza t ion of p roduc t ive capacity, the reduction of imports, the a t ta inment of a high level of employment or the acqu is i t ion of techn ical skills by citizens of Ghana. However, cer ta in retail, wholesale, and trans- portation operations are not open to foreigners. Invest- ments approved under this act obtain a guarantee of the right to t ran s fer profits and, in the event of sale or l iqu ida t ion, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The act also s t ipu la tes that the assets of foreign invest- ors may not be expropriated and tha t, when approved enterprises are nationalized in the public interest, fair compensation is to be determined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the In te rna t ional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop- ment. A Capital Investments Board decides which for- eign investments qua l i fy for benefits under the act. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such t rans fe rs must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intesta- cies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds repre- senting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate docu- mentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to be reinvested in government bonds or treasury bills; the interest accruing on such investments is transferable. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the central bank. Such companies, when financed with locally raised capital, are not permitted to transfer profits or dividends abroad. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without express permission. In respect of portfolio investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. New borrowing abroad is screened by the Permanent Review Commit- tee on Public Agreements, which for private sector bor- 2 On Janua ry 9, 1973 the Capital Investments Decree 1973 was issued regulating new private foreign investment in Ghana. The Decree repealed the Capital Investments Act 1963 (Act 172) and the Capital Investments (Amendmen t) Act, 1965 (Act 267), but provided that agreements previously executed under those acts would continue in force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution row ing relies on the recommenda t ions of the Bank of Ghana. Pr iva te m ed ium - t e rm and shor t- term import credits in excess of 0 100,000 requ i re approval by the Bank of Ghana. Lend ing to nonres iden ts is prohibited, except for expo rt credits; these requ i re exchange con- trol app roval and no rm a l ly are l im i ted to 60 days. Borrow ing abroad by commerc ial banks requires the pr ior app rov al of the Bank of Ghana. Gold Res iden ts may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold ob ta ined dom e s t i c a l ly by w a sh ing or m i n i ng according to ind igenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewe l ry. O ther domestic transactions in gold, as well as impo r ts and expor ts, may be author- ized by the M i n i s t ry of Trade, Indus t r ies, and Tourism in co l labora t ion w i th the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by perm it under the Gold M i n i ng Produc ts Protection Ord inance. W i th these exceptions, no G h a n a i an resident other than an author- ized dealer may buy or borrow any gold f rom, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an au thor- ized dealer. Impo r ts of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au thor i t ies are not normally licensed; impor ts for indus t r ial use are very small, a specified commercial bank being the sole importer. The import du ty on bu l l ion and pa r t ly worked gold is 10 per cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their entire output in semirefmed fo rm. Exports are free of duties or taxes; the mining corporations are subject to a minerals tax based mainly on profits. Changes during 1972 January 11. Registered importers who wished to import under open general license machinery and equip- ment valued at over 0 100,000 required the prior approval of the Bank of Ghana for the terms of payment. January 24. (Notice to Importers No. 383.) Eleven essential commodities, inc lud ing stock fish, evaporated milk, rice, and sugar, were transferred f rom open gen- eral license to the restricted list. Imports of wheat flour and matches were prohibited. An Essential Commodi- ties Committee would be given responsibility for making necessary imports of the eleven commodities. (See February 28, below.) February 2. Notice to Importers No. 386 revoked the previous procedures for import licensing and announced new guidelines for imports for 1972. The scope of open general licenses was sharply reduced and their number reduced from ten to three, covering mostly trade sam- ples, personal effects, and gifts. Most items previously on open general license were henceforth subject to spe- cific license; the rema in ing items were placed either on the list of restricted imports or on the banned list. Items not covered by any open general license nor in- GHANA cluded in the restricted list or the banned list were e l ig ib le for special unnumb e r ed licenses. February 5. The Na t ional Redemp t ion Council an- nounced the new Gove rnmen t 's policy in respect of ex ternal indebtedness. Cer ta in pre-1966 suppliers' credit contracts that were considered f r a u d u l e nt were can- celed. The terms of the debt rescheduling agreements of 1966, 1968, and 1970 were renounced, and mora- to r ium interest was suspended. Medium-term loans, both pre-1966 and post-1966, were to be repaid on IDA terms, i.e., over a 50-year period, including 10 years of grace. Long-term loans would be repaid in accordance w i th the terms already agreed. A steady, even if sma l l, reduc t ion in short-term indebtedness (180-day trade credits in respect of imports and arrears the reon) would be effected as and when the nation's resources would perm i t. February 5. The Na t ional Redemption Council an- nounced a retrenchment program for imports. February 7. The official exchange rate was changed f rom N0 1 - US$0.55 to 0 1 = US$0.78. The new fixed rate for s ter l ing was set at <£! = 0 3.34. February 7. The requirement that most goods must be imported on credit terms of 180 days was abolished. Importers could f ree ly negotiate payment terms with their foreign suppliers. However, payment terms for imports of capital goods va lued at over 0 100,000 remained subject to prior approval by the central bank. Henceforth, imports normally were effected on a sight basis. Exchange for imports under the 180-day credit system and landed on or before December 27, 1971 was made available at the exchange rate prevailing before that date. February 7. Notice to Importers No. 387 was pub- lished, listing the items that henceforth required specific import licenses. February 16. Decree No. 27 changed the name of the currency f rom new cedi to cedi. February 23. The Diamond Marke t ing Corporation was given the sole right to export diamonds. February 26. A revised interim budget for 1971/72 was published. It confirmed formally the removal effected on December 27, 1971 of the temporary import surcharges and the measures invo lv ing multiple cur- rency practices. February 28. The Bank of Ghana issued an announce- ment on the retirement of short-term debts. All inter- bank short-term debts between Ghanaian commercial banks and their correspondents abroad and between the Bank of Ghana and foreign banks would be respected and paid in fu ll promptly on the due dates. All liabili- ties arising out of irrevocably confirmed letters of credit and guarantees would be converted into interbank short- term facilities; the payment terms for such debts would have to be agreed upon in consultation with the Bank of Ghana, which would guarantee fu ll settlement. All 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA debts arising out of insured credits in respect of imports were recognized by the Bank of Ghana, and initial steps had been taken toward negotiations with foreign export credit insurance companies on the payment of insured overdue credits. The Bank of Ghana would also guarantee payment to foreign suppliers of overdue unin- sured credits as well as liabilities arising from uncon- firmed letters of credit; such short-term obligations would be paid in regular installments. Accordingly, for- eign exchange was being allocated on February 28 to commercial banks to enable all overdue uninsured bills for collection as well as uninsured bills drawn under soft letters of credit to be paid, provided they had fallen due on or before September 15, 1971. February 28. The Essential Commodities Committee was formally established. On September 30, it was renamed Logistics Committee, and the "essential com- modities" (rice, sugar, etc.) henceforth were referred to as "foreign foods and commodities." March 9. The basic allocations for private and busi- ness travel were abolished. Travel allowances would be based solely on what the Bank of Ghana considered the reasonable requirements of applicants submitting an exit visa and a travel ticket. March 20. The Foreign Exchange Decree, 1972 was issued. It provided for penalties for any person who, for the purpose of obtaining a transfer of foreign exchange f rom Ghana to pay for goods or services provided abroad, whether on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, w i l l fu l ly misrepresented the cost of those goods or services. April 13. A detailed import program was introduced. Licenses were to be issued initially within an overall limit (net of foreign aid imports) of 0 235 million. For most end-use categories the program called for a reduction in imports of about 50 per cent f rom 1970 levels. April 19. The State Proceedings Decree was pub- lished. It provided that the au thor iza t ion of the Attorney- General must be obtained before any action could be taken against the Repub l ic of Ghana in respect of ( 1) any contract involving payment of any money outside Ghana and entered in to before J a n u a ry 13, 1972; (2) any contract w i th any foreign company, firm, individ- ua l, or g roup of ind iv idua ls entered in to before Janu- ary 13, 1972; ( 3) any contract invo lv ing the payment of money in a currency other than Ghana ian currency entered into before J a n u a ry 13, 1972; and (4) any debt or other ma t ter arising on or in respect of any promissory note, b i ll of exchange, or other negotiable in s t rum ent issued before Janua ry 13, 1972. May 9. With m inor exceptions, all imports became subject to preshipment inspection for qua l i ty, quan t i ty, and price in the c o u n t ry of origin or shipment. (Since 204 mid-1971 this requirement had been in force for selected commodities.) May 10. The export was prohibited of any cocoa not the property of the Cocoa Marketing Board unless its export had been authorized in writing by the Board. May 12. The Bank of Ghana announced that the payment of buy ing commissions on imports into Ghana was no longer authorized for commitments entered into on or af ter April 19, 1972. May 16. A Permanent Review Committee on Public Agreements was created. Its approval was required for all new suppliers' credits to be taken up by the public sector. This screening replaced the quantitative limita- tions on the inflow of such credit which had been in effect since 1966. May 29. A Raw Materials Committee was estab- lished. June 2. All export shipments of non fe r ro base metals were placed under the supervision of the General Super- intendence Company Limited. June 8. Foreign exchange allocations for charter flights were suspended until fur ther notice. June 23. Ghana ceased to be a Scheduled Territory under the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. The Bank of Ghana suspended its official buy ing and selling rates for sterling. July 1. Following the floating of sterling, it was decided to maintain the existing rate of 0 1 = US$0.78. Fixed quotations for sterling were replaced by daily quotations. July 17. The Bank of Ghana made a special 180-day credit facility available to importers of commodities covered by foreign aid. August 4. Commercial banks were required to seek exchange control approval before permitting remittances of tuition fees, subscriptions, or life insurance pre- miums. August 4. The Insurance (Amendmen t) Decree, 1972 was published. It established the Ghana Reinsurance Organization and provided, among other things, that ( 1) no person would be allowed to carry on insur- ance business in Ghana on or after January 1, 1973 un less at least 40 per cent of the shares or other interest in the business was owned by Ghana ians; and (2) no company would be allowed to carry on insurance busi- ness unless it was incorporated in Ghana. August 16. The Subversion Decree, 1972 was pub- lished. It classified many types of economic crime as capital offenses. September 13. The Budget Statement announced that an export bonus wou ld be reintroduced on nontradi- tional exports, that a fee of 7.5 per cent would be imposed on import licenses for specified commodities, and that the tar iff system would be restructured, (An export bonus of 20 per cent of the gross value of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nontraditional exports was introduced in early 1973, retroactive to September 13, 1972.) September J4. A new bilateral payments arrangement with ma in land China was signed. It came into effect immediately. September 15. The central bank instructed exporters (when selling to countries other than those with which payments agreements were in effect) to invoice in the currency of the importing country if included among 12 listed currencies. In other cases of exports to non- payments agreement countries, export proceeds were required to be collected in U. S. dollars, pounds sterling, or deutsche mark. October 4. The import program for 1973 was pub- lished (Notice to Importers No. 396 ). There were rela- tively minor shifts between the restricted list, banned list, and special licensing list. GHANA December 6. The Mining Operations (Government Participation) Decree was issued. The Government acquired a 55 per cent equity participation in foreign- owned mining companies operating in Ghana, retro- active to October 1, 1972. December 18. Various incentives to export-oriented industries were announced, including concessionary interest rates. Banks were instructed to grant credits to foreign-owned enterprises only if these were set up with foreign capital; the amount of credit that could be extended would be related to the amount of foreign exchange invested in the firm. December 28. The Timber Operations (Government Participation) Decree was issued. The Government acquired 55 per cent of the equity of certain foreign timber companies, retroactive to October 1, 1972. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.0272838 gram of fine gold per Greek D rachma, co r respond ing to Dr 32.5714 = SDR 1 or Dr 30 = US$1. Greece avails itself of wider m a rg ins of up to 2!4 per cen t. The in te rven t ion cur- rency is the U. S. dollar. The official rates ma in ta ined by the Bank of Greece ( the cen tral b a n k) are Dr 29.90 buy ing, and Dr 30.10 selling, per US$1.1 Rates for other currencies are de term ined daily on the basis of the official l im i ts for the U. S. dollar ma in ta ined by Greece and the rates for the currencies concerned in in terna t ional marke ts. Administration of Control Controls are adm in i s te red on the policy level by the M in i s t ry of Na t ional Economy and the Currency Com- mittee. Exchange con trol policy is made by the Cu r rency Comm i t tee, the Cred it Comm i t tee, and the Foreign Exchange Sub-Committee, and inpo rt po l icy is made by the M in is try of Na t ional Economy. Exchange control is imp lemen ted, and import approva ls are g ran ted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the M in i s t ry of National Economy and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the compe tent m i n i s t r y. The au thor ized banks may make exchange se t t lemen ts re la t ing to pe rm i t ted trade transactions and may grant res iden ts a s tanda rd travel allowance. All other exchange paymen ts require the approval of the Bank of Greece. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries w i th which Greece has bilateral paymen ts ag r e em en t s2 are made through controlled accounts, w i th the U. S. dollar as the currency of accoun t. Settlements w i th all other coun tr ies are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are perm i t ted to open w i th Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accoun ts may be credited with convertible fore ign exchange or the proceeds f rom sales of convertible currencies, w i th * Fo l low ing the a n n o u n c em e nt on F e b r u a ry 12, 1973 t h at the U. S. dollar was being devalued. Greece established a cen t ral ra te of Dr 30 = US$1. 1 In addition to the U. S. dollar, the Bank of Greece ma in ta ins offi- cial quo ta t ions for Au s t ra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f r an c s, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish k rone r, and Swiss francs. It also quotes bankno te rates for various foreign currencies. 2 Greece ma in ta ins bilateral paymen ts agreements with Albania, Brazil, Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Romania, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. Most settlements with Portugal are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. There is a dormant bilateral account for settlement with Chile of nitrate imports. 206 authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with transfers f rom other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents for current t ransac t ions, for t rans fe rs to o ther Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any w i thd rawal f r om d r a chma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of fore ign exchange w i thd rawa ls into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion r ight of the sums w i thd rawn. The m ax imum rate of interest on such accounts is Wi per cent per annum. Nonresidents may also make t ime deposits in con- vertible foreign exchange for a m in imum period of 90 days w i th authorized fo re ign exchange banks; interest rates on the deposits range between 6% and 8 per cent per a n n um according to their term. Par t icu lar regula- t ions app ly to nonresident investors ( i n c l u d i ng Greek na t iona ls p e rm an en t ly residing abroad) en joy ing the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687 /53 (see sec- tion on Capital, be low ). They may establish time deposits, for a m i n im um period of six months and with a m i n im um deposit in convertible cu r renc ies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of 7-8 per cen t, and p r inc ipal and in terest are freely t rans fe rab le at m a t u r i ty in the currency of the deposit. All d rachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accoun ts. Domestic bankno tes in excess of Dr 750 brought in by non res ident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authori- ties, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000 a visit, purchases of securities off ic ia l ly listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amoun ts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for rem i t tance by each account holder, provided that the f u n ds were held before December 31, 1963; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released sem iannua l ly for rem i t tance by each account ho lder, f rom accounts opened a f t er J anu a ry 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may be trans- ferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All t r an s f e rs between blocked accounts requ i re p r ior app rova l. Blocked balances may be deposited w i th a commerc ial b ank, where they earn interest at cu r rent rates for sight deposits. Greek citizens ( i n c l u d i ng seamen) who are employed abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may establish, with f u n ds or ig ina t ing abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts with au thor ized banks in Greece. Me rchant seamen may deposit the ir wages and salaries in these accounts, provided that the funds originate abroad and, if they are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution received in d rachmas, that they are obtained through the in te rmed ia ry of a sh ipp ing firm established in Greece. Balances on these accoun ts earn in terest at 3 per cent per annum for sight deposits, 6%-8 per cent per annum for t ime deposits, and 6"!4 per cent per annum for sav- ings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, i n c l u d i ng accrued in te res t, are f ree ly conve r t ib le in to foreign exchange as long as the ho lder con t inues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years the rea f te r. Somewhat s im i l ar fac i l i t ies for fore ign currency ac- coun ts exist under a Hous ing Loan Deposit Scheme. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts of all commodities o r ig in a t ing in or shipped f rom Rhodesia are p roh ib i ted. A ll o ther imports, except those of goods on Lists F, P, and P-12 w i th an invoice value c . i .f. of the equ iva lent of US$100 or less for wh ich payment w i ll be made th rough an authorized bank, require approval. For most imports, prior approval is requ i red; however, for ce r ta in commodities, ma in ly m a ch in e ry and raw ma te r ia l s, imports may be effected w i thout prior approval, provided that approval is obtained subsequently. The g ran t ing of an import approval implies that app rop r ia te fore ign exchange will be made ava i lab le. Apa rt f rom imports for which special licenses are required, two general import pro- cedures (E and D) are applicable to imports, mainly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required ( 1) for imports from countries pa r t ic ipa t ing in the European Monetary Agree- ment (EMA) when payment is to be made in a con- vertible or ex te rna l ly convertible European currency; (2) for impor ts from Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement au thor iza t ions under U. S. a id; and ( 3) for imports from countries w i th which Greece has concluded bilateral payments agreements when pay- ment is to be made through the relevant clearing account. No license is necessary under procedure E, but import app l ica t ions which have been approved by an authorized bank are registered w i th the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U. S. aid, for imports o ther than those covered by procedure E, and for impor ts for wh ich the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of ship- ment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. For all goods that do not require a special import license, prices must be approved and pro forma invoices visaed in Greece by a local Chamber of Commerce. Special licenses are required for imports of com- modities in List A ( inc lud ing gold, certain luxury items, textiles, automobiles and parts, and certain foods tu f fs) and List B (cer ta in types of mach inery and spare pa r t s ). For a few items on List A no licenses are being issued. Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, wheat and flour, GREECE su lphur, and motion-picture films, as well as barter t ran sac t ions based on c lea r ing agreements. For purposes of app ly ing regu la t ions conce rn ing pay- men ts for impo r ts and advance deposit requ i remen ts, all p r iva te imports are classified in n ine lists (P, P-12, F, F-50/1-3, and F-100/1-3). Paymen ts for imports may be made by le t ter of credit, by cash aga inst ship- p ing documen ts, or by acceptance of t ime d ra f ts (wh ich is perm i t ted on ly for goods in Lists P and P-12, there be ing no t ime l im it for List P but a l im it of one year for List P-12 which may be extended for a fu r th er six mon ths w i th the permission of the Bank of Greece). The M in i s t ry of Na t ional Economy may au tho r ize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred pay- ments for imports not inc luded in the P Lists. When t ime d r a f ts are accepted, a personal wr i t ten unde r tak ing amoun t ing to 4 per cent of the amount of the d r a ft is requ ired as a gua ran tee that the payment will be made w i th in the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is requ ired to deposit in d rachmas the whole amount of the credit w i th the in te rven ing bank. In addition, for those impo r ts included in Lists F-100/1 and F-100/2, fu r ther cash deposits of, respectively, 40 per cent and 0.8 per cent of the c.i.f. value are required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under procedure E, th is deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made w i th in 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time draf ts. When payments for imports are to be made against sight draf ts, advance deposits in cash are required for private imports inc luded in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3.3 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepayment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (secu r i ty) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt f rom import du ty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-50/3 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 List F-100/3 Prepayment Security Total In per cent of invoice value 50 20 70 36 14.4 50.4 10 4 14 100 40 140 72 28.8 100.8 20 8 28 3 Commodities not included in these Lists, or in Lists P, P-12, or F, are subject to the advance deposit requirements applicable to goods in List F-50/3. No advance deposit is required for products in Lists F, P, and P-12. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced to one half of the above-mentioned percentages. When imports are fi- nanced with U. S. aid funds, a fur ther deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in addition to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the in terven ing bank ( 1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days ( for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days ( for the provinces) of obtaining the import approval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are re funded; however, for goods included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-10071-3 the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of four mon ths f rom the date on which they were made for a range of specified imports, including fabrics, electrical household appliances, and passenger motor vehicles, and for a period of two months for other imports. Certain companies, public agencies, and organizations that have been designated public service institutions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Advance payments may be made to foreign suppliers for all imports against delivery of shipping documents or against a letter of under tak ing issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Except for goods in Lists P and P-12, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within nine months after the date of import approval. Final settlement of the va lue of imported goods must take place w i th in 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place w i th in 120 days fo l low ing the da te of a r r ival for goods in Lists P and P-12. Most imports are subject to a s tamp tax of 2-5 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles requ ire approval, but this is gran ted free ly for expenses inc iden tal to authorized t rade t ran sac t ions and for cer ta in other transactions. Residents going abroad for f am i ly reasons, tourist trave l, or business are en t i t led to the equ iva lent of US$250 for one tr ip a year; instead of this allowance, tourists pa r t ic ipa t ing in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost dec lara t ion submitted by the trave l, or business are en t i t led to the equ iva lent of types of travel are subm i t ted to the Foreign Exchange Sub-Committee. The Committee does not grant addi- tional fo re ign exchange for tourist exchange but it no rma l ly provides fore ign exchange for other travel as follows: up to US$1,500 a tr ip for exporters, indus- 208 trialists, and hotel managers; up to US$350 a trip for other businessmen; up to US$500 a trip for newspaper editors and tourist agents; up to US$800 a trip for scientists attending international meetings; and up to US$400 a trip for newspaper reporters. For medical treatment abroad it provides any amount for transfer direct to a foreign hospital, or up to US$1,200 which the patient may take out. It also provides up to US$265 a month for studies in the United States and Canada and up to US$175 a month for studies in other foreign countries ( for postgraduate studies, up to US$310 and US$225, respectively). Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maxi- mum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare all domestic and foreign banknotes and other valuables taken with them upon leaving Greece. Non- resident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in foreign banknotes declared upon entry, provided that departure is w i th in six months of arrival; the export of larger amounts or any export after a visit of more than six months is subject to general or specific approval. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports require individual licenses, but most exports are free of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds must be sur- rendered within 180 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manufac tures and up to one year for other commodi- ties. The Ministry of National Economy may license barter transactions involving the export of tobacco, certain types of f r u i t, or w ines; such t ransac t ions are permitted with mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, and the U. S. S. R. In addition, any commodity may, subject to individual authorization, be exported on a barter basis to Albania, mainland China, the Republic of China, and Iran. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds f rom shipping are exempt f rom the surrender requirement, but ship- owners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may br ing in a maximum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account w i th the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on depa r tu re or spent in Greece on personal financial requirements. Greek residents re turn ing to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. Non- resident travelers of foreign nationality may import any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution amount of foreign currency and need not declare it at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents hold- ing Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may freely borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval. Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promo- tion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment.4 Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 and by Legislative Decree No. 916 of July 14, 1971, fu r ther privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 90 million in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which promote exports. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legisla- tion mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year f rom the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of cap i tal impor ted. The repa tr ia t ion of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, prof i ts on approved foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad in amoun ts not exceed- ing 6 per cent a year of the repa tr ia ted por t ion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of prof i ts transferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the fore ign exchange ea rn ings of the en terpr ise f rom the sale of its produc ts abroad. (4) For inv e s tm en ts made under Leg- islative Decree No. 2687 /53 that are not covered by Law No. 4 1 7 1 / 6 1, the t r a n s f er of p ro f i ts is related to the res idual cap i tal r em a i n i ng in Greece, and the t rans- fer p r iv i lege exp ires as soon as all cap i tal has been re- pa t r ia ted. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, the repa tr ia t ion of capital and profits of foreign inve s tmen ts approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the fore ign exchange earn ings of the enterprise f rom the sale of its 4 This Decree also prov ides for the open ing of fo re ign currency accounts by nonres iden ts and the re t ran s fer of the deposits as well as the t rans fer of in terest thereon. GREECE products abroad. Also, foreign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agr icu l tural and m in ing products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatri- ation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase specified gold coins (ma in ly sovereigns) f rom the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central bank; purchasers must sign a statement to the effect that the coins will only be resold to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and w i thout formality only to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank and at the official price. Residents may deal freely, how- ever, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and requ ire a special license issued by the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy; licenses are no rma l ly issued to repu- table importers for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported free ly by commercial banks and other residents as well as nonres iden ts when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved, with the exception that gold bars or coins brought in by travelers and declared upon en t ry may, w i th the prior approval of the Bank's C red it Committee, be re-exported by the same person. Changes during 1972 February 11. Banks were allowed to open numbe red accounts for the ir customers. March 17. The basic fore ign exchange allocation for tourist and business t rave l, app l icab le also to travel for fam i ly reasons, was increased f rom the equivalent of US$200 to US$250 for one t r ip a year. May 19. The par va lue was changed f rom 0.0296224 gram to 0.0272838 gram of fine gold per d rachma. The cen tral rate of Dr 30 = US$1 was discontinued. The effective par i ty relationship for the U. S. dollar re- mained unchanged at Dr 30 = US$1. Greece con t inued to avail itself of wider marg ins. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE June 24. Banks suspended sales of all fo re ign cur- rencies o ther t h an the U. S. do l lar and purchases (ex- cept in dealings w i th t r av e l e r s) of all currencies o ther than U. S. do l lars, deu tsche m a rk, Swiss f ranc s, Ne ther- lands gu i lde rs, and French f r an c s. On J u ne 27, banks resumed purchases of s te r l ing and o ther s ter l ing area currenc ies, at d a i ly rates based on those in leading exchange ma rke ts ab road. Trad ing in other currencies was resumed on J u ne 28. July 28. The terms were announced for the participa- tion by nonres iden ts in a fo r thcom ing p rem ium bond loan of the Gove rnmen t. Foreign exchange imported for payment of subscr ip t ions would be converted at Dr 30 per US$1, net of charges or commission. Non- resident deposits blocked und er Law No. 1704 of 1939 could also be used, provided the bonds themselves were placed to blocked accounts. August 22. Holders of sh ipp ing accounts denomi- na ted in conver t ib le d rachmas or in foreign currencies were perm i t ted to settle the ir comm i tmen ts abroad in any currency. November 1. The e igh th reduc t ion in import duties in accordance w i th the Treaty of Association with the EEC took place. November 1. The advance deposit requ iremen ts were reduced for the goods in Lists F-50/2, F-50/3, F-100/2, and F-10073. November 1. Importers were required to submit sup- pliers' price lists to obtain certification of import in- voices. December 30. The period w i th in which export pro- ceeds must be su r rende red was lengthened f rom 150 days to 180 days a f t er shipment. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System * The par v a l ue is 0 .818513 gram of fine gold per G u a t em a l an Que tza l, co r respond ing to Q 1.08571 = SDR 1 or Q 1.00 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Q 1.00 buy ing, and Q 1 .01 se l l ing, per US$1. The Bank of G u a t em a la quo tes exchange rates for cer ta in other cur- rencies 1 on the basis of th e ir rates in the New York ma rke t. Commerc ial b anks must con su lt the Cen tral Bank on the exchange rates to be app l ied in all trans- actions in excess of Q 50,000. On J anu a ry 27, 1947, Gu a t em a la notified the Fund that it was prepared to f o rm a l ly accept the obligations of Ar t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control '2 Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Gua tema la (Exchange Depa r tmen t) under the direc- tion of the Mone tary Board. Foreign exchange transac- tions of the pub l ic sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Gua tema la; those of the private sector are carried out through the med ium of author- ized banks for the account of the Mone tary Stabiliza- tion Fund maintained by the Bank of Guatemala. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and N icaragua in respect of trade and invisibles are no rma l ly settled in Gua tema lan quetzales through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearing- house established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic in tegra t ion of their countries. The Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala, however, is empowered to authorize the sale of currencies of other Central American countries to travelers w i th in the area, up to the equivalent of Q 2,500 a trip. There are no obligations prescribing the cu r rency for paymen ts to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Gua tema la, explosives, poultry, wheat flour, and used trucks and trailers. Imports of coffee beans, coffee plants, soluble coffee, and tallow are prohibited. W i th in 8 days a f ter confirmation, importers must regis- ter w i th the Exchange Department any firm order to import merchandise. (Imports or ig ina t ing from Central Amer ican coun tr ies and included in the General Treaty for Central Amer ican Economic Integration are exempt * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Gua tema la ma in ta ined the rate of Q 1.00 - US$1 unchanged. 1 Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f rancs. 2 Exchange con trol was abolished on F eb ru a ry 1, 1973. f rom th is requ i remen t .) Importers must effect their registered imports d u r i ng the 90-day va l id i ty of the registration. All rem i t tances abroad to pay for imports require exchange licenses, wh ich are granted freely by the Exchange Depa r tmen t; the exchange is granted by the au tho r ized banks upon submission of the registration fo rm and the sh ipp ing documen ts. Checks denom ina ted in quetzales are authorized free ly for payment for speci- fied imports f rom Central American countries. Payments for imports wh ich have to be fu l ly or p a r t i a l ly prepaid must be made by letter of credit. When it is impossible to establish a le t ter of credit and the p repayment exceeds Q 1,000, a deposit equal to 25 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange requested must be made with the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank in cash or in government bonds by importers who are not established importers in the coun try or who are unab le to provide su f f ic ient proof of the na tu re of the transaction; the deposit is refunded when the goods arrive in Guatemala. Importers of merchandise for which payment must be made in cash or in ins ta l lmen ts, and importers of mer- chandise on consignment, must present the original shipping documents usually required by the Guatemalan customs for the clearance of goods. Authorizations to w i thdraw imports from customs must be obtained f rom the Exchange Department or an au thor ized b ank, except for imports whose value does not exceed Q 50, household goods, samples, printed advertising material, and those imports originating in Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. The Exchange Department and the authorized banks issue such authorizations w i thout delay. The customs officials may refuse clearance of goods if discrepancies are found between the information contained in the authorization issued by the Exchange Department and in the import documents. For the specified imports from Central American countries, the importer must complete, at either the Exchange Department or the customs office, a special form required by the Exchange Department giving a description of the merchandise to be imported and the date on which he made the advance payment or the date on which he undertook to pay in the fu tu re. If these forms are completed at the customs office, they must be forwarded daily to the Exchange Department. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs du ty is applied to those products originating in or imported from countries with which Guatemala has an unfavor- able trade balance that are not covered by the common external tariff of the Central American Common Mar- ket (i.e., goods whose import taxation has not yet been subject to equiparacion). This surcharge is waived if the goods are transported in Guatemalan ships. Moreover, all imports from other areas which are included in the agreed un i fo rm ta r i ff list of the countries par t ic ipa t ing 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from the surcharge. Imports or ig ina t ing outside the Central American Common Market or in Honduras are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles 3 All t rans fe rs abroad on account of current invisibles require authorization by the Exchange Department, m a in ly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments of up to Q 1,000 to El Salvador or up to Q 200 to Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua do not require authorization by the Exchange Department. Requests for foreign exchange for payments for cur- rent invisibles must be supported by such documents as may be required by the Exchange Department to ver ify that the operation is genuine. The sale of foreign exchange for most categories of current invisibles, including remittances of income from registered foreign loans and investments, is authorized freely, as is the repayment of registered loans. For certain payments for current invisibles, exchange is sold up to established limits; in some cases, requests in excess of these limits are approved. Rem i t tances of rents, interest, royalties, commissions, and profess ional fees are subject to a tax of 11 per cent and rem i t tances of prof i ts and dividends to a tax of 10 per cent. There is an exchange allowance equ iva lent to a m a x im um of Q 2,500 a person a t r ip for travel abroad by residents. Nonresident travelers may purchase foreign exchange equivalent to Q 50 or to the amount of foreign currency they can show to have sold previously to authorized banks. All interna- tional air passages (with the exception of those for travel w i th in Central Amer ica) are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. The exchange allocation for rem i t tances abroad for fam i ly ma in tenance is Q 250 a person a mon th, up to a max imum of Q 1,000 a mon th for each f am i ly. In addi- tion, rem i t tances of income f rom property or f u n ds invested in Gua tema la (other than fore ign inve s tmen t) and rem i t tances of pensions, annu i t ies, etc., are author- ized up to Q 250 a mon th a person, up to Q 1,000 a m o n th for each bene f ic ia ry f am i l y. Foreign technical personnel employed in Gua tema la may rem it abroad up to two th i rds of the ir salaries if the ir entire f am i ly or part of their f am i ly resides abroad, or up to one th ird if the ir fam i l ies reside in Gua tema la. Foreign techn ic ians leav ing the coun try pe rmanen t ly may, subject to ind i- v idual approval, t rans fer the ir savings up to the f u ll amount of th e ir ea rn ings in Gua tema la. L im i ts are also imposed on rem i t tances for s tuden ts' expenses abroad. The export of Gua tema lan bankno tes and coins is not p roh ib i ted; however, Gua tema lan banknotes and coins received f rom abroad are not converted by the Bank of Guatemala unless they come from Costa Rica, El Sal- vador, Honduras, or Nicaragua. For these countries, the Bank of Guatemala guarantees monthly conversions into U. S. dollars up to the following limits: Costa Rica, Q 125,000; El Salvador, Q 400,000; Honduras, Q 300,000; and Nicaragua, Q 125,000. There are no regulations prohibiting the export of foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license from the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. Exports to Central American countries of goods included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from this requirement; for these goods, the exporter must complete a special form required by the Exchange Department, presenting evi- dence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank. The application for an export license must be accompanied by a fu ll description of the na ture of the transaction, inc lud ing the terms and method of payment. The Exchange Department issues licenses only if certain conditions have been met: (1) for exports paid for in advance or in cash, it requires evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank; (2) for exports on credit, it requires an undertak- ing to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within 90 days of the date the license is issued; and (3) for exports on consignment, it requires the exporter's certified declaration showing the estimated value of the export and his under tak ing to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within a period not exceeding 180 days after the issuance of the license. Certain export industries financed with foreign loans, however, may be permitted under the terms of specific foreign exchange agreements with the Monetary Board to retain a portion of export proceeds abroad to cover amortization of the loans. Exports of meat to the United States are subject to regulation by the Ministry of Economy. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be declared and surrendered. The import of Gua tema lan and foreign banknotes is not restricted. The purchase of Salvadoran banknotes by au thor ized banks is limited to 0 500 a person. Capital 4 A ll foreign cap i tal inve s tmen ts in Gua tema la must be declared and registered with the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. All inves tment by foreign or fore ign-con tro l led compan ies in the cons truc t ion of pri- va te hou s ing in Gu a t em a la requ ires the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Economy; such inves tment may be l im i ted to a specified overa ll amount a year, it must meet ce r ta in m i n im um q u a l i ty and f inanc ing standards, 3 W i th e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 15, 1973 a ll re s t r ic t ions on c u r r e nt pay- m e n ts we re t e rm i n a t e d. 4 With e f fect f rom Feb rua ry 1, 1973 all restrictions on capital t ran s fe rs were e l im ina ted. 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA and imported gold to domestic artistic and industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. When selling such gold, the Bank charges its c.i.f. import price plus a 1 per cent commission and a and the sales va lue of a housing un it must not exceed Q 6,000. All outgoing capital payments require ex- change licenses, wh ich, like those for the transfer of profits and dividends, are granted freely for remittances of registered foreign investments and amortization of foreign loans. Transfers abroad of resident-owned capi- tal are not permitted, w i th the exception of transfers for the purpose of investing in, or financing of, com- mercial, agr icu l tura l, or indus tr ial firms in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Gold Residents must sell to the Bank of Guatemala any gold in their possession. Residents other than banks may sell gold coins and gold bars only to the Bank of Guate- mala or to banks licensed for this purpose by the Mone- tary Board. The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to pur- chase all gold offered to it. The Bank also sells domestic GUINEA Exchange Rate System * No par va lue for the cu r rency of the Repub l ic of G u i n ea has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of cu r rency ( in t rodu c ed on October 2, 1972) is the Syli, de f ined as a mone ta ry u n it con t a in ing 0.036 gram of fine gold. This corresponds to GS 24.7 = SDR 1. It also corresponds to GS 4.444 = 1 French f r an c. On December 31, 1972, the rate ma in ta ined by Guinea for the U . S. do l lar was GS 22.736 - US$1, w i th official buy ing and se l l ing rates of GS 20.90 and GS 24.60 per U. S. do l lar, respectively. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the Central Bank of the Repub l ic of Gu inea; th is au tho r i ty has been delegated to the Exchange Control Office of the Bank. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or in s t i tu t ion. The Presidency is charged w i th supervision over the Cen- tral Bank. A ll se t t lemen ts w i th fo re ign coun tr ies, inc lud- ing paymen ts for imports, requ ire approval by the Exchange Control Office. Import and export licenses are issued, w i th in the f ramewo rk of an a n n u al program, by the M in is try of Commerce (State Secretariat of Foreign Trade) a f ter applications have been screened by the Na t ional Licens- ing Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral paymen ts agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and th rough accounts established unde r, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements w i th other countries are made in designated "convertible" cur- rencies.2 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Non- resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonres ident Accounts in Sylis. The open ing of a nonresident account is sub ject to the prior approval of the Exchange Con t rol Office. * Fo l low ing the a n n o u n c em e nt on F eb ru a ry 12, 1973 t h at the U. S. do l lar was be ing deva lued, Gu in ea ma in ta ined the gold con tent of the sy li unchanged. 1 Guinea maintains b i la teral payments agreements w i th Algeria, Bu lga r ia, m a i n l a nd Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eas te rn G e rm a n y, Egyp t, G h a n a, H u n g a r y, Lebanon, Morocco, Po land, Roman ia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, U. S. S. R., and No r th V ie t-Nam. There is also a com- pensation a r r ang em ent w i th a p r iva te f irm established in Sw i tzer land. Some of the agreemen ts are inope ra t ive. (Fu r th e rmo r e, ag reemen ts negotiated w i th A lb an i a, Cameroon, No r th Korea, and L iber ia have never come into force.) 2 Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, CFA f ranc s, Dan ish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Italian l ire, Libyan d inars, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swiss f rancs, U. S. dollars, and zai'res. 2 14 Imports and Import Payments All imports, other than those under the Seven-Year Plan, require ind iv idu al licenses, wh ich are issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce, a f ter applications have been screened and approved by the Na t ional Licensing Comm iss ion. Once an import license has been issued, au tho r iza t ion for the co r respond ing payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Impo r ts by fo re ign concession holders requ i re import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. Most impor ts in to Gu inea are made w i t h in the frame- work of an annual import program. This program is prepared by the M in i s t ry of Commerce on the basis of the coun try's impo rt needs, the domestic production poss ib i l i t ies of impo rt substitutes, and experience with the previous year's impo rt p rog ram. The program requ ires the app roval of the Na t ional Licensing Com- mission, wh ich takes in to consideration the sources of imports and the ava i lab i l i ty of convertible currencies and of balances und er p aym en ts agreements. Certain items are impor ted outside the import pro- g ram. These are goods for wh i ch fore ign exchange is derived f rom sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea —e.g., impo r ts made by fore ign concession holders (the Fria Company and the S i f ra Company) and by fore ign embassies —and goods for the Seven- Year P lan. All commercial impor ts other t h an those by the Fria Company and the S i f ra Company are made by state enterprises that specialize in the var ious types of commerce. All commodities are sub ject to import surcharges, except when imported by the Fria Company. Payments for Invisibles A ll p aym en ts for inv i s ib l es requ i re the au tho r iza t ion of the Exchange Con trol Off ice, irrespec t ive of the coun t ry to wh ich the payment is to be made. Paymen ts for f r e ight and in su rance in connection w i th impo r ts are au tho r ized as pa rt of the impo rt license. No exchange is g ran ted for o ther types of insur- ance w i th companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tou r i st t rave l; each app l ica t ion is cons idered indi- v idua l ly. There is a bas ic a l loca t ion for bus iness travel expenses (other than t ranspo r ta t ion) of GS 1,500 a t r ip. Government o f f ic ia ls on official m iss ions are per- mitted an allowance of GS 350 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equ iva lent of GS 6,000 for each pilgrimage and, in add i t ion, up to GS 19,000 to pay for fares connected w i th the pilgrimage. In cases of serious illness, provided that a doctor's certificate is sub- m i t ted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medi- cal care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Ind iv idual au thor iza t ion is required for the pay- ment in Gu inea of all fa res for foreign travel. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Paymen ts for f a m i ly suppo rt may be m a de up to GS 1,000 a mon th for each benef ic iary, whe ther child or adu l t. For o f f i c i a l ly recognized s tudy ab road, the s tuden t 's re la t ives may t r a n s f er the e q u i v a l e nt of the amount of a gove rnment scholarship, i.e., GS 2,250 a mon th. S tuden ts b eg inn ing the ir s tud ies abroad a re g ran ted an a d d i t i o n al fo re ign exchange a l lowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Inve s tment Law guaran tees that at least 20 per cent of the net annu al prof i ts of approved fo re ign inve s tmen ts may be t ran s fe r red abroad; the pe rcen tage ac tua l ly pe rm i t ted to be trans- ferred abroad depends on the agreement concluded between the en te rp r i se concerned and the Governmen t. Expa t r ia te workers emp loyed by the pub l ic sector in Gu in ea may t r a n s f er abroad 40 per cent of the ir net mon th ly sa la r ies and those emp loyed by the private sector are pe rm i t ted to t r a n s f er up to 30 per cent of their net mon th ly salaries. The export of Gu inean cur- rency is proh ib i ted. Exports and Export Proceeds The M i n i s t ry of Commerce es tab l ishes an annual export p rog ram, w h i ch requires the approval of the N a t ion al L icens ing Commission. All exports require ind iv idual licenses in order (1) to assure the implementation of the export program (par t icu lar ly in respect of comm i tmen ts under bilateral trade ag reemen t s ); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., m in ing companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the value of ores exported); ( 3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic con- sump t ion; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Special authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the follow- ing commodities: wild animals (dead or a l ive), edible animals, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the pro- ceeds immediately a f ter they are collected. Exports other than those effected by the Fria Com- pany are made by three state enterprises: Prominex, Proseco, and Frutex. Foreign planters are granted spe- cial transfer privileges related to the quantity of pine- apples, bananas, or citrus f ru i ts exported. All export proceeds must be surrendered; however, the Fria Company and the Sifra Company are allowed to retain 66% per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, of their export earnings, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry, but both must in prin- GUINEA ciple be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. Non- resident travelers may repurchase and re-export the for- eign exchange declared upon entry, af ter deduction of their local expend i tures; this deduction cannot be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 507AN /62) of April 5, 1962, which replaced a more restrictive one of May 1960, provides guarantees against the nation- alization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors; it also provides for preferential tax and customs trea tment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and proceeds accruing from the liquidation of such invest- ments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GS 15 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the Guinean economy. The actual conditions under which foreign investments may be made are subject to nego- tiations within the terms of this law. Gold Guinea has issued four commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic pur- poses. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. Changes during 1972 January 1. The exchange rate for the U .S. dollar was changed from GF 246.853 to GF 227.36 per US$1. That for clearing dollars was changed from GF 247 to GF 227 per US$1. The gold content of the Guinean f ranc remained unchanged at 0.0036 gram of fine gold. October 2. The Guinean franc was replaced by a new monetary unit, the syli, which was defined as equivalent to 0.036 gram of fine gold, i.e., equivalent to ten Guinean francs. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar and the French franc became GS 22.736 = US$1 and GS 4.444 = F 1. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.409256 gram of fine gold per Guyana Dollar, corresponding to G$2.17143 = SDR 1 or G$2 = US$1, and Guyana avails itself of wider margins. The effective par i ty relationship for sterling has since June 23, 1972 been ma in ta ined at G$5.2114 = £1. Consequently, all transactions, except those in sterling or currencies ma in ta in ing a fixed rela- tionship with sterling, take place at fluctuating exchange rates. The Bank of Guyana normally deals only in Canadian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dol- lars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U .S. dollars. On December 31, 1972, its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were G$2.2201 and G$2.2315 and those for sterling were G$5.2081 and G$5.2342. In its dealings in sterling, Canadian dollars, and U. S. dollars w i th commercial banks, the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of Vie of 1 per cent on inward transfers and %6 of 1 per cent on outward transfers (% of 1 per cent, buy ing and selling, for East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars). The commercial banks' charges for sterling, U. S. dollars, and Canadian dollars are %e of 1 per cent buying and % of 1 per cent selling. Their buy ing and selling rates for East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars are 1A per cent either side of parity. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the Minister of Finance and Trade, who has entrusted its administra- tion to the Bank of Guyana. Au tho r i ty for approving normal import paymen ts and prov id ing allocations of foreign exchange for other current paymen ts up to specified amoun ts is delegated to the banks au thor ized for th is purpose; certain paymen ts in respect of current invisibles of a personal na tu re, however, require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. Import and export licensing genera l ly is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and Trade; imports from CMEA countries and m a in l and Ch ina as well as all imports of specified goods are made on ly by the Ex ternal Trade Bu reau, a depar tment of the M in is t ry of Finance and Trade. Prescription of Currency Guyana has ceased to be Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, it was announced on February 20, 1973 that the Guyana dollar would con t inue to float with sterling. 216 under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Guy- ana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency l for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident in any country outside Guyana except Rhodesia. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., certain capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. In practice, no funds have been directed into Blocked Accounts in recent years. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited; for some goods, the prohibition is not applicable when they originate in other countries of the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA). Im- ports subject to inv idual licensing are specified in a "negative list"; they include coffee, sugar, certain vege- tables, cereals, meat, poultry, dairy products, fats, copra, vegetable and an imal oils, petroleum products and other fue ls, bu i ld ing materials, certain chemicals, detergents, gold, diamonds and jewelry, firearms, grain- m i l l ing mach inery, radios, and appliances. The granting of ind iv idual licenses and the conditions attached 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution thereto depend on current policy; some goods are sub- ject to quota wh i le others are licensed freely. Other goods may be imported under an open general license applicable to all countries of origin except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Roman ia, and the U. S. S. R.; import quotas for commodities originating in these countries are based on the value of imports from them in 1964. The External Trade Bureau, a department of the Ministry of Finance and Trade, has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities from all sources and over all imports from the state trading countries mentioned. Certain foods tuffs may be imported only by the Guyana Marketing Corporation. For certain garments, the open general license is not applicable to Japan. Payments for authorized imports are perm i t ted upon application and submission of the necessary documen- tary evidence. Exchange control fo rms have to be completed for all transac t ions exceeding G$240. Imports of all commodities not exempt f rom import duty are sub ject to a defense levy of 3 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all coun tr ies requ ire approval, which, except for amounts in excess of the standard allocation for tourism, is given f ree ly, pro- vided that no illegal capital t r an s f er seems to be involved. Standard allocations are applied to certain payments of a personal na tu re on an annu al basis, e.g., for tou r ist travel abroad (G $ 6 6 6 ) ,2 for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each child), for educa- tion at universities and comparable ins t i tu t ions (G$4,800 for each student), and for f am i ly ma in tenance (G$4,800 for each f am i ly ). Resident and non res ident travelers are sub ject on depar ture to an ex it tax of G$3 a person. Travelers going abroad may take w i th them G u y a na currency notes not exceeding C$100; these notes do not form part of any a l l o tm e nt of exchange for trave l. In add i t ion, fo re ign cu r rency notes to the v a lue of G$50 may be taken out as pa rt of any t ravel exchange allowance. Non res ident travelers may w i t h in one mon th f rom last en t ry take out any fo re ign cu r rency notes declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Por tuga l, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports of rice may on ly be made by the Guyana Rice Ma rke t ing Board. Most exports are free of export license, but are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Depart- ment to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatri- 2 This allocation may be accumu la ted up to G$2,000 for any three- year period. GUYANA ated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 1) surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 1) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in any currency notes free ly. Capital Foreign investors must obtain f rom the Bank of Guyana "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; it carries with it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment the pro- ceeds, inc lud ing any capital increments a f ter payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in fu ll in the currency of the original investment. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 1) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other cur- rencies may be retained by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese nationality may transfer abroad up to G$24,000 of their capital assets, viz., G$ 12,000 at the time of emigration and G$4,000 in each of the fo l low ing three calendar years. Any remain- ing capital proceeds must be retained in Guyana indefi- nitely, but the f u n ds are not directed into Blocked Accounts. Gold Residents may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Guyana for num i sma t ic purposes. Residents other than the mone tary authorities, au thor ized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed w i thout special permission to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry or coins for num isma t ic purposes, at home or abroad. Ne i ther the Bank of Guyana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supp ly domestic indus try. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance and Trade; such licenses are not granted except for impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies, authorized dealers, pro- ducers of gold, and indus t r ial users. Changes during 1972 March 1. Banks required the prior approval of the central bank to extend advances to alien companies, 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA i.e., foreign-controlled companies operating in Guyana and Guyana compan ies hav ing one or more alien directors on the board. March 23. Specific impo rt licenses were required for p r in t ing and book b ind ing mach ine ry; photographic and cinematographic appara tus and app l iances, films, and other photographic and c inema tograph ic supplies; and chemical p roduc ts for use in pho tog raphy for retail sale. April 5. The par va lue was changed f rom 0.444335 gram to 0.409256 g ram of fine gold corresponding to G$2.17143 = SDR 1 or G$2 = US$1. This par va lue replaced the central rate of G $ 5 . 2 1 1 4 = £ l. The effective parity re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged. G u y a na con t inued to avail itself of wider margins. May 6. The Exchange Control ( Impo rt and Export Amendmen t) Order, 1972 came in to operation. Trave- lers leaving Guyana w i th in one mon th of last entry could take out foreign currency notes in excess of the equ iva lent of G$50, on the ir person or in their bag- gage, provided they cou ld produce a cus toms certificate showing that the notes had been b rought in at the time of en try. June 23. G u y a na ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U . K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Dealings in fore ign exchange were suspended. They were resumed on J u ne 30. June 30. It was a n n o u n c ed t h at the e f fec t ive parity relationship for s te r l ing wou ld be ma in ta ined unchanged at G$5 .2114 = £1. As a resu l t, the Guy ana dollar began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. July. The Ex te rnal (S ter l ing A r e a) Accounts were merged into the Ex ternal (Non-S ter l ing Area) Accounts. The latter were redesignated External Accounts. The prescription of cu r rency ru l es were revised accord- ingly. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.163703 g ram of fine gold per Haitian Gourde, corresponding to G 5.42856 = SDR 1 or G 5.00 = US$1, and H a i ti does not ava il itself of w ider ma rg ins. The par v a l ue is app l icab le to all trans- actions. The in t e rv en t ion cu r rency is the U. S. dollar. In addition to the gourde, the U. S. dollar is legal tender. On December 22, 1953, Ha i ti notified the Fund that it was prepared to forma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control There is no exchange control law and no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Exchange regulations are issued by the National Bank and are implemented by that Bank and three commercial banks, the only other banks ope ra t ing in the exchange field. The banks review cer ta in requests for foreign exchange to ascertain that no unau tho r ized c ap i t al t rans fe rs are invo lved. Imports and Import Payments Although the law provides for the imposition of quantitative restrictions on imports, import licenses are not required. Imports from member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance and Japan, however, require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Ministry's prior authori- zation is also required for imports from any source of certain types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments rea- sons. The domestic marketing of certain imports is con- trolled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. Importers opening letters of credit at the National Bank are usu- ally required to make cash deposits of up to 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit. Certain im- ports are subject, in addition to the applicable import duty, to surcharges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value; goods subject to the 4 per cent or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an additional tax of 2 per cent. Importers must also pay an "economic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except coffee require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Export authorization is usually granted freely but may be with- held when domestic supplies are low. Exports of essen- tial oils are shipped by the Association of Haitian * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Haiti with effect from February 20 estab- lished a central rate of G 5 = US$1. Haiti did not avail itself of wider margins. Exporters of Essential Oils. Gold coins, bu l l ion, etc., may be exported on ly by the N a t ion al Bank of the Republic of Ha i t i. The proceeds of exports are not sub- ject to exchange control. Exporters must pay an "eco- nom ic l ibera t ion tax" levied on the am o u nt of the cus- toms invoice; when th is amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requ iremen ts are applied to proceeds f rom invisi- bles. A regu la t ion, wh ich is prac t ica l ly obsolete, pro- hibits the export and import of U. S. banknotes in denom ina t ions of over $20. Residents traveling abroad mu st pay a tax of G 20 on tickets to a destination in the Caribbean area and G 50 on tickets to a destination outside that a rea; d ip loma ts and s taff of international o rgan iza t ions are exemp t. Capital Except in special circumstances, capital transfers abroad are not permitted. Imports of capital may, how- ever, be made freely. Residents may hold capital assets abroad in any form other than gold and bank deposits. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires gov- ernment approval. Permission is not usually granted to nonresidents for investments in h a n d i c r a ft indus tr ies. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a mini- mum of 80 per cent of deposits collected from residents of Haiti. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By virtue of a law of August 31, 1942, the National Bank has the exclusive right to purchase domestically and export gold in the form of coins, mineral, dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the National Bank; exports require in addition prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, while imports for industrial use require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Finance as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles con- taining a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Five gold coins were issued in 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 1967 and sold mostly to nonresidents; these coins are legal tender. Changes during 1972 April 12. The par value was changed from 0.177734 gram of fine gold to 0.163703 gram of fine gold per gourde. The central rate of G 5.00 = US$1 was discon- tinued. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at G 5.00 = US$1. December 29. The 10 per cent tax levied on all tickets for tmvd by air or sea to foreign countries was replaced by a travel tax of G 20 on all tickets for travel to desti- nations in the Caribbean area and G 50 on those for travel to any other destination. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.409256 gram of fine gold per Honduran Lempira, corresponding to L 2.17143 = SDR 1 or L 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 2.00 buying, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an official exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased from local banks without restrictions; however, for statistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank of Honduras or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Pay- ments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nica- ragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compensa- ci6n Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay- ments to Mexico may also be settled in Honduran lem- piras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely; however, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Certain imports require prior Central Bank approval when they are to be made on credit terms, and certain other imports are subject to this requ i rement irrespective of the terms of payment. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control, and the foreign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Exports of coffee are super- vised by the Honduran Coffee Institute. Those wishing * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Honduras maintained the rate for the U. S. dollar at L 2.00 = US$1. to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. However, by virtue of Decree No. 73 of October 30, 1969, the authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance is required for all activities implying the trans- fer abroad of capital. Foreign mu tual funds and similar financial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Economic Planning, and the Central Bank is required to contract any foreign indebtedness, whether for im- port financing or other purposes, and the foreign liabili- ties of the banking system are subject to ceilings. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- duras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally pro- duced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Changes during 1972 May 15. The par value was changed from 0.444335 gram of fine gold to 0.409256 gram of fine gold per lempira. The central rate of L 2.00 = US$1 was discontinued. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar, however, remained unchanged at L 2.00 = US$1. May 16. The customs surcharges of 50 per cent or 100 per cent were removed which had been levied on most imports of Japanese origin since October 14, 1971. September 6. A free trade agreement was signed with Nicaragua. Imports from Nicaragua would be admitted without limitation and free of customs duty, with the exception of listed commodities that were either pro- hibited or subject to ad valorem duties of 5 per cent to 25 per cent. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System* The par v a lue is 0 .146631 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar. The cen tral rate is HK$5.6500 per US$1, corresponding to HK$6 .13431 = SDR 1, and Hong Kong ava i ls itself of wider ma rg ins, the off ic ial limits being HK$5 .5229 and HK$5 .7771 per US$1. On Janua ry 1, 1973, the banks' b u y i ng and selling rates for the U .S. do l lar were HK$5.6725 and HK$5.7125, respectively. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. No prescription of currency requirements are in force; settlements between residents of Hong Kong and non- residents may be made and received free ly in Hong Kong dollars or any other cu r rency. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts does not dis- tinguish between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area and those of nonresidents outside the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments Except for gold, diamonds, and certain dutiable or dangerous commodities, imports are free of license. However, all goods or ig ina t ing in or shipped from Rhodesia require an import license. All imports must be declared to the Department of Commerce and Industry. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any destination of gold and certain stra- tegic goods are subject to restrictive licensing; diamonds, currency notes (except for personal travel expend i ture), and textiles are also subject to licensing, the latter because of a number of bilateral agreements with speci- fied countries under which the export of certain textiles is restricted. All exports must be declared to the Depart- * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, it was announced on February 14 that the value of the Hong Kong dollar was being ma in ta ined in terms of gold. The central ra te in terms of U. S. dollars became HK$5.0850 = US$1, and Hong Kong con t inued to avail itself of wider margins. The upper limit became HK$4.9706 = US$1, and the lower l im it HK$5.1994 = US$1. 1 Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 2 In view of changes that took place on January 1, 1973 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on that date. 222 ment of Commerce and Industry, which is also the export licensing authority. Export proceeds may be col- lected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no l im i ta t ions on paymen ts for or receipts f rom invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely br ing in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes, travelers checks, and other means of paymen t. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. Gold There is a free ma rket for gold in wh ich dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than personal jewelry, unless made by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities, require licenses issued by the Director of Commerce and Indus try. Imports of bullion are not permitted, except for gold in transit to other destinations. Licenses are issued for the import of gold only for manufac tur- ing purposes or for t ranssh ipmen t. Commercial imports and exports of finished jewelry are normally allowed. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong, but not outside. Changes during 1972 January 1. Export licenses ceased to be required, except for strategic goods, textiles, goods analogous to money (i.e., diamonds, gold or gold articles, currency notes, and coins), and "reserved" commodities (e.g., r ice). The obligation to surrender the proceeds from exports to certain destinations was maintained. There was also no change in the prescription of currency regulations. June 21. In view of the increase in sterling assets covered by the Sterling Guarantee Agreement with the United Kingdom, the borrowing powers of the Exchange Fund were raised from HK$6 billion to HK$7 billion. June 23. Hong Kong ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory for the purposes of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. June 24. Banks were informed that, in view of the changes in U. K. exchange control, the Hong Kong Government would as soon as possible issue revised, detailed exchange control instructions. Meanwhile they were requested to follow existing procedures as far as possible. June 24. It was announced that the peg on sterling was being maintained. As a result, the Hong Kong ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dollar began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective pa r i ty re la t ion sh ip for which had been HK$5 .58213 in the official market. The Exchange Banks' Association wou ld not be quo t ing fixed rates for currenc ies other th an sterling, wh ich was floating. Exporters to the old Ex ternal Account Area (i.e.; all coun tr ies outside the Sterling Area except ma in land Ch ina, the R epub l ic of Ch ina, and Macao) were relieved from their obligation to surrender the proceeds at off ic ial rates. Thus the d is t inc t ion between the official and free exchange marke ts was removed. June 24. Banks were advised that they should con- t inue to observe the l im i ts agreed for the ir foreign cur- rency positions, a l though, as previously, the Exchange Con tro l ler was prepared to consider any reasonable requests for ad ju s tmen ts in these limits. June 28. Banks were informed that all sterling accounts in the United Kingdom in the names of Hong Kong banks, companies, and ind iv idua ls had been redes- ignated External Accounts instead of Hong Kong No. 1 or No. 2 accounts. As a result of the reclassifieation of Hong Kong No. 2 accounts, the holders of these accounts ( i n c l u d i ng nonauthorized banks, companies, or ind iv idua ls) no longer required a permit from the Hong Kong exchange control authorities to debit their sterling accounts; U. K. banks no longer required the submission of such permits. July 6. The Hong Kong dollar, previously pegged to the pound sterling in the official market at HK$ 14.5455 = <£ stg. 1, was repegged to the U. S. dollar. A fixed middle rate of HK$5.6500 = US$1 was set, with exchange rates to be maintained within 2% per cent either side of this rate; the corresponding limits were HK$5.5229 and HK$5.7771 per US$1. A new fixed rate for sterling would be established when the United HONG KONG Kingdom announced a new fixed rate for sterling against the U .S. do l la r. September 20. The rate of HK$5.6500 = US$1 was noted by the In te rna t ional Mone ta ry Fund as a central rate for the Hong Kong do l lar. The Fund also noted that Hong Kong would avail itself of wider margins. October 1. Exports to the Un i ted Kingdom of woven po lyes ter /co t ton fabrics and made-up goods became sub ject to export res tra in ts similar to those provided for under the ex is t ing cotton agreement w i th the United Kingdom. December 28. It was announced that, since Hong Kong no longer was a Scheduled Territory, the Defense (Finance) Regulations, under which exchange control had been administered in Hong Kong since Septem- ber 8, 1939, would not be renewed when they expired on December 31, 1972. Accordingly, all exchange con- trol circulars were canceled with effect from Janua ry 1, 1973 and the use of exchange control forms E.C. 15 and E2 was ended. There would be no change, how- ever, in the import and export licensing requirements. Banks were requested to continue to cooperate in pro- viding statistical information, particularly w i th respect to their positions in foreign currencies. Furthermore, un t il September 1973 banks were requested to consult the Exchange Control Office before running any posi- tion in foreign currencies other than sterling beyond those limits agreed under previous arrangements; banks remained free, however, as announced in July, to increase or decrease their sterling holdings. NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes occurred at the begin- ning of 1973: January 1, 1973. Exchange control was abolished. The distinction between authorized banks and non- authorized banks was terminated. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.00830471 gram of fine gold per Icelandic Krona, corresponding to IKr 107.008 = SDR 1 or IKr 98.56 = US$1. The intervention cur- rency is the U. S. dollar, and Iceland avails itself of wider margins. The official rates are IKr 97.60 buying, and IKr 97.90 selling, per US$1. Rates for other cur- rencies are based on these rates and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. Rates for settlements through clearing accounts are fixed; the buying and selling rates maintained for clearing dollars by the Central Bank of Iceland are the same as those for U. S. dollars, and those for clearing kronur are IKr 0.9986 and IKr 1.0014, respectively. The author- ized banks are permitted to carry out exchange trans- actions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, after consulting the Cen- tral Bank, has the ultimate decision on matters concern- ing import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest commer- cial banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fish- eries Bank, are the only authorized banks. The author- ized banks issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Iceland is a member of the Sterling Area, although no longer a Scheduled Territory under the U. K. Ex- change Control Act, 1947. Iceland maintains bilateral payments agreements with Eastern Germany and the U. S. S. R., and all settlements with these countries must be made exclusively through clearing accounts denomi- nated in U. S. dollars and Icelandic kronur, respec- tively.1 As a general rule, exchange receipts from other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area and with Brazil are made in U. S. dollars; with coun- tries in the Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with certain other countries, in their re- spective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident kronur accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires individual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for payments to residents and may without a license be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for international trans- actions generally being made in U. S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies. Special Accounts in kronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved pay- ments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list or subject to state trading (see below) may be imported freely (and, with minor exceptions, without an import license) from any c o u n t r y ;2 about 92 per cent of total imports (1971 basis) is liberalized. Some 30 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and are subject to quantitative restriction. Some of these commodities are admitted, subject to individual license, under ten global quotas (1972) that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilateral payments agreements.3 The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted from the same countries on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discretionary basis ("other licensing"). The principal items involved are gasoline, gas oil, and fuel oil; they are imported mainly from the U. S. S. R. All goods on the restricted list require indi- vidual licenses when imported from bilateral payments agreement countries; licenses in this case are in principle issued in accordance with bilaterally agreed quotas, but in practice they are granted freely upon application for global quota items. Certain imports are admitted only under state trading; these include fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages. Furthermore, fresh * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, Iceland established a cen tral rate of 0.00747424 gram of fine gold per Icelandic krona, to take e f fect on February 15. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar became IKr 96.50 and IKr 96.80, respectively. i On February 6, 1973 a new trade and payments agreement w i th Eastern Ge rmany was signed, retroactive to January 1, 1973. Settlements were placed on a conver t ib le c u r r e n cy basis. 2 The liberalized commodities include agricultural commodities that are purchased from the United States under a P.L. 480 agreement. In order to ensure the implementation of the agreement, the authorized banks are empowered to control the foreign exchange allocations for purchases of these commodities. 3 For these goods, moreover, additional licenses may be applied for outside the global quotas. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vegetables and potatoes are imported under the auspices of the Agricultural Production Board in accordance with a government authorization. None of these commodities, however, is subject to quantitative restriction. For imports from all sources, when requiring a license, a fee of % of 1 per cent (m in imum IKr 10.00) is charged as a license fee on the kronur amount of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, however, this fee is 0.1 per cent. The com- mercial banks normally require certain advance deposits in connection with import transactions. Importers of goods not requiring licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for the payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require individual licenses, for- eign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely accept suppliers' credit for up to three months from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to some 70 per cent of 1970 imports; the goods not listed are mainly build- ing materials and nonessential goods (including motor vehicles for personal u se ). Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months requires permission by an authorized bank and the Ministry of Commerce. For- eign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to govern- ment authorization. Imports f rom all sources of motor vehicles and motor- cycles are subject to an import surcharge of 25 per cent ad valorem; the surcharge is 15 per cent, however, for buses and heavy trucks, and ambulances and certain other utility vehicles are exempt. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the fo r e ign service, paymen ts to international organizations, paymen ts for postal, tele- graphic, and telephone services), for b ank ing commis- sions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange trans- actions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 25,000 (about US$250) a person for one tr ip a year (IKr 12,500 for children); if a second trip is made in the same calendar year, an add i t ion al allocation of 50 per cent of the basic allocation is granted. Applications for exchange for major repair of ships, repair of means of transport other th an ships and a i rc ra f t, t ran sac t ions and t rans fe rs in connection with direct insurance, and insurance busi- ICELAND ness operations abroad are considered on their merits. The chartering of foreign ships usua l ly is not allowed when Icelandic vessels are available for charter on normal terms. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding IKr 100. Nonresident travelers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The shipping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be sur- rendered without undue delay. Export charges of 2.9-11.2 per cent are levied on the f.o.b. value of all fish products. In addition, a charge of IKr 2,300 a metric ton (but not to exceed 4.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value) is levied on the products subject to the 2.9 per cent charge. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered w i thout undue de lay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, with the approval of the author- ized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from fre igh t, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for pur- chases of necessities for the homeward jou rn ey of the ship or aircraft. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to re ta in foreign exchange earned f rom p rem iums and indemn i t ies and to use it to pay re insurance p rem iums, c la ims, and other regu lar expend i tures of the insurance business in the coun t ry where the foreign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding IKr 100. There are no limitations on the import of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are sub- ject to individual approval. The participation by non- residents in Iceland's jo int stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not a l lowed in the fishing industry. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and paymen ts. W i thout the app roval of the Governmen t, residents may not ob ta in loans abroad, inc lud ing loans for financing impor ts, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on the ir mer i ts and approved only in excep- tional circumstances. The con t rac t ing of commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 months is also approved on ly in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in connection w i th the import of indus tr ial raw mate- rials for which the production process is lengthy, the import of construction materials, and so fo r th. The authorities permit the use of suppliers' credit of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of speci- fied imports, inc lud ing mo tor vehicles for personal use, various household appliances, specified foods, various types of clothing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. The authorities may in special circumstances allow import credit in excess of 90 days for such items as mach inery, aircraft, or ships. Transfers of capital abroad by resi- dents require approval, which is granted only in excep- tional cases; transfers by ind iv idua ls are generally limited to IKr 50,000 a year. However, direct invest- ment abroad for the purpose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is norma l ly permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is prohibited. Outward transfers of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on their merits and are restricted. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported fund s; the transfer abroad of the proceeds f rom the sale of these assets and secu- rities requires au tho r iza t ion. Securities held in Ice land by nonresidents must be registered, and all transac t ions and operations concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the app roval of the Cen tral Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. However, citizens returning to Iceland after a period of residence abroad may freely bring in any gold in their possession. Changes during 1972 January 1. The global quota list for 1972 went into effect. It included three new items, one of which was cement; these had been subject to discretionary licens- ing. January 24. The basic allocation for tourist travel was increased in terms of k r o n ur f rom IKr 21,000 to IKr 22,600 a person for one t r ip a year; in terms of fo r e ign cu r rency, the pre-Sm i thson ian level of £ stg. 100 was t h us restored. April 1. A number of items were deleted f rom the list of those import commodities for which the use of three months' suppliers' credit was freely permitted. The coverage of this list was reduced f rom about 83 per cent to about 70 per cent of total 1970 imports. The items deleted included bu i ld ing materials. April 4. An import surcharge of 25 per cent ad valorem was levied on the c.i.f. k r o n ur price of motor vehicles and motorcycles; certain u t i l i ty vehicles were exempt. On Apr il 24, this import levy was reduced to 15 per cent for buses and heavy trucks. May 9. The par va lue was changed f rom 0.0100985 to 0.00930128 gram of fine gold per Icelandic krona, correspond ing to IKr 95.5429 = SDR 1 or IKr 88.00 = US$1. The cen t ral rate of IKr 88.00 = US$1 was d iscon t inued. June 16. The bilateral paymen ts agreement with Romania was discontinued. June 23. Iceland ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 26. Following the floating of sterling, Iceland maintained its par value unchanged at IKr 88.00 = US$1. July 22. A free trade agreement with the EEC was signed based on the principle of free trade in industrial products (including certain fishing p roduc ts ). December 19. The par value was changed to 0.00830471 gram of fine gold per Icelandic krona, corresponding to IKr 107.008 = SDR 1 or IKr 98.56 = US$1. Iceland wou ld hencefor th avail itself of wider marg ins. December 19. The basic allocation for tourist travel was increased in terms of kronur f rom IKr 22,600 to IKr 25,000 a person for one trip a year. December 20. The Central Bank quoted buying and selling rates for U. S. dollars and clearing dollars of IKr 97.60 and IKr 97.90, respectively, and buying and selling rates for clearing k r o n ur of IKr 0.9986 and IKr 1.0014, respectively. 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee, co r respond ing to Rs 7.50 = SDR 1. A central rate of Rs 18.9677 = <£ stg. 1 has been estab- lished, co r respond ing to Rs 7.90320 = SDR 1. At the end of 1972, the Reserve Bank of I n d ia m a in t a in ed f ixed buy ing and s e l l ing rates for s te r l ing and con- sequently t ransac t ions in a ll cu r renc ies other than sterling and cu r renc ies d i r e c t ly l ink ed to s t e r l ing took place at fluctuating rates. On December 29, 1972, the Reserve Bank of Ind ia's b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for its operations in s ter l ing w i th authorized dealers were Rs 18.75 and Rs 18.85 per <£ stg. 1. The rates of exchange for t ransac t ions in s ter l ing have been pre- scribed by the Reserve B ank. Transac t ions in fo re ign currencies other than s te r l ing and cu r renc ies d i rec t ly linked to s te r l ing are conduc ted th rough authorized dealers at rates fixed on the basis of ma rket cond i t ions, subject to spot t ran sac t ions be ing done at or between the London m a rk et ra tes for s te r l ing aga inst the other currency concerned. Au tho r ized dealers are perm i t ted to cover the ir r equ i r em en ts of fo re ign currenc ies in the London m a rk et and to cover the ir permitted t rans- actions in cer ta in listed cu r renc ies ( the "permitted currenc ies") ' against rupees or any one of these cur- rencies, either spot or fo rwa rd for periods not exceed- ing six months, w i th au thor ized banks in any coun try outside the B i la teral Account group. 2 On December 29, 1972, market rates for te legraph ic t ran s fe rs on New York were US$12.61 buy ing, and US$12.37 selling ( c l e a n ), per Rs 100. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Ind ia in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Gove rnment of India in consulta- tion with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell fore ign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. Applications to make direct inve s tmen ts in India are * Fo l low ing the announ c em ent on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the Reserve Bank maintained unchanged its buy ing and selling rates for spot sterling, and the Ind ian rupee con t inued to float w i th s te r l ing. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian k ron e r, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss f r a n c s, and U. S. dollars. 2 Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Ea s te rn Ge rmany, Hunga ry, Nor th Korea, Poland, Roman ia, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. There are also special p aym en ts a r rangemen ts w i th A fgh an i s t an, Egyp t, and the Sudan for settlement of the ir trade w i th I n d ia in specified commodities on a balanced basis within specified ceilings, and special trade and pay- ments a r rangemen ts w i th Bangladesh. The State Trading Corporation of Ind ia has an a r rangement w i th the Tun is ian agency OCET for ba lanc ing pu rchases of specified commodities. Settlements w i th Yugo- slavia took place in convertible cu r r en cy w i th e f fect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1973 vwith certain exceptions for existing export and import contracts). reviewed by the Foreign Inves tment Board. Import and export licenses are issued by the Con tro l ler of Impor ts and Exports. Prescription of Currency Ind ia has ceased to be a Scheduled Terr i tory in terms of the U . K. Exchange Con t rol Ac t, 1947 but und er cu r rent U. K. exchange con trol regu la t ions con t inues to be regarded as a coun t ry of the Overseas Sterling Area. For prescription of cu r rency purposes, coun tr ies are divided in to two g roup s: B i la te ral Account coun- tries,- and Ex te rnal Account countries (a ll other coun t r i e s ). Paymen ts to and f rom B i la teral Account countries mu st be se t t led in I n d i an rupees through the appro- priate c lea r ing account. Paymen ts to 14 External Account coun t r ies •'< may be made in rupees to the credit of the account of a resident of any coun try in this g roup or in the cu r rency of any c o u n t ry or territory in this subg roup. Paymen ts to a ll other Ex te rnal Account coun tr ies may be made in ( 1) the currency of the coun t ry concerned; (2) the cu r rency of any country of the subg roup men t ioned; or (3) rupees to the account of a resident of any coun t ry in the External Account g roup .4 Receipts f rom 14 External Account countries may be obtained in rupees f rom the account of a bank in any External Account country, or in the currency of any territory in this subgroup. Receipts f rom all other External Account countries may be obtained i n- ( 1) the currency of the country concerned; (2) the currency of any territory in the subgroup men- tioned; or ( 3) rupees from the account of a bank in any External Account country. No tw i ths tand ing the foregoing, special rules may be applicable in respect of A fghan is tan, Bang ladesh, Egypt, the Sudan, and exports under lines of credit extended by the Govern- ment of India to the governmen ts of certain foreign countries. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Ind ians and of Nepalese and Bhutanese nationals resident in Nepal and Bhutan, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Nepalese, and Bhutanese firms, companies, or other organizations in Nepal and Bhu tan are treated 3 The coun t r ies listed are Aus t r ia, Be lg ium -Luxembou rg, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Repub- lic of Germany, Italy, J ap an, Ne the r lands Monetary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, United Kingdom, and United States and te r r i to r ies und er U. S. sove re ign ty. 4 The pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank is requ ired for all remit- tances to Pakistan. All remittances by na t iona ls of ma in land Ch ina to any country outside Ind ia and all remittances to ma in land China by any person resident in Ind ia, whe ther for personal or t rade pur- poses, were stopped with e f fect f rom November 3, 1962. All paymen ts due to mainland China are requ ired to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is r equ i r ed for all remittances to Rhodesia. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, i.e., Bilateral Accounts and External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of private firms ( inc lud- ing banks) or persons, with proceeds from sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and with proceeds from sales of the currencies of External Account countries. They may be debited for paymen ts for exports and for other pay- ments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for t rans fe rs to nonres ident accounts of persons and firms ( inc lud ing b a n k s ), provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of External Account countries. Transfers may be made from External Accounts to other External Accounts. All other entries on Bilateral and Ex ternal Accounts, with the exception of debits by way of paymen ts to residents, require the pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; r e f u n ds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or t rans fe rs f rom appropriate non- resident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Pre- scription of Cu r rency, a b o v e ); proceeds f r om checks issued by the Life Insu rance Corporation in respect of maturity or dea th claims and surrender va lue of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Cor- poration certifies that p rem iums had been received in India in an approved m a n n er and that actuarial reserves are held in Ind ia; proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits du r ing a mon th does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no ind iv idual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the non res ident account holder is an Ind ian na t iona l, ma tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities as well as sale proceeds of securities sold on the stock exchange and the repurchase price of un i ts issued by the Un it Trust of Ind ia may be free ly credited to his account. Where the account holder (in the case of a jo int account, any of the account ho lde rs) is a foreign national, authorized dealers may f ree ly credit the sale and m a tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of un i ts, provided that the securities had been o r ig ina l ly purchased either out of f u n ds held in the account or by rem i t tance f rom abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale 5 However, res iden ts of Nepal have to ob ta in th e ir fo r e ign exchange r equ i r em en ts f rom the Nepal R a s t ra B a n k. 228 was made on the stock exchange. Ordinary private nonresident accounts, as well as blocked accounts maintained by persons of Ind ian nationality or origin who are resident abroad, with a balance of Rs 50,000 or less may be freely debited for local payments. Other ordinary private nonresident accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as pay- ments for premiums on life insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; all taxes due f rom the account holder in Ind ia; con tr ibu t ions to the National Defence Fund, the Pr ime M in is ter's Na t ional Relief Fund, or any government-sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a mon th to relatives and dependents in Ind ia; investments in Ind ian Govern- ment securities and in un i ts issued by the Un it Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while temporar i ly resident in Ind ia. For ordinary nonresident accounts of Indian nationals or persons of Indian origin, as well as blocked accounts of such persons with balances in excess of Rs 50,000, the holders may draw up to Rs 2,000 a week dur ing their stay and, in addition, a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annua l ly may be debited for any purpose du r ing an account holder's stay in India. Other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not no rma l ly permitted f rom nonres ident accounts of ind iv idua ls or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. Special regu la t ions cover funds lodged in National Defence Rem i t tance Scheme Special Accounts repre- senting rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonres iden ts and rupee proceeds f rom sales of certificates issued under the Scheme, which expired on May 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remitted abroad; they may, however, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, be invested domestically or be used for other expendi- tures in India. W i thdrawa ls f rom such accounts with balances of Rs 50,000 or less held by persons of Indian nationality or origin may be made f ree ly for any pay- ments in India. Nonresident (E x t e r n a l) Accounts may free ly be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or or ig in resident outside India. They may be f ree ly credited w i th new f u n ds remitted through b ank ing channe ls f rom the coun t ry of residence of the account holder. They may also be credited, a f t er approval by the Reserve Bank, with f u n ds from any other nonresident account of the holder, provided such f u n ds are e l ig ib le for remittance. The accounts may be f ree ly debited for disbursements in India and for t rans fer abroad. In terest on moneys standing to the credit of such accounts is exempt from income tax and freely transferable. There are also blocked accounts, to which are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution credited capital proceeds and payments that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Assets in India of Indian emigrants in excess of the amount allowed to be remitted are also required to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities (including approved shares quoted on the stock exchange); the income derived from such investments can be remitted to the owner's country of residence in accordance with the special instructions issued by the Reserve Bank at the time of opening a blocked account. For Indian nationals who were granted emigration facilities prior to Jan- uary 1, 1963, net income from investments financed from blocked accounts is allowed to be remitted in full. For those granted such facilities between Janua ry 1963 and April 1968, remittances of income from assets left behind are limited to Rs 20,000 a year. No income of any k ind is remittable to persons who obtained emigration facilities a f ter April 30, 1968. Imports and Import Payments Specified items may be free ly imported under an open general license. Practically all other imports require ind iv idual licenses. Imports of specified raw materials, spare parts, and components required by key and priority industries, inc lud ing small-scale indus- tries, and by un i ts in other industries that had an export performance of 10 per cent or more of their production du r ing the previous year, are licensed lib- erally. Licenses for raw materials and components are issued on a con t inu ing basis genera l ly by way of importers c la im ing rep len ishment of goods actually consumed du r ing a period of not less than three and not more than six months. As for spare parts, licenses are issued annua l ly on the basis of prescribed percent- ages of the c.i.f. va lue of the imported mach inery and of indigenous mach inery having imported components. Licenses to actual users for imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts are not granted wholly against f ree fore ign exchange, but partly against tied-aid credits from particular coun tr ies. However, a greater preference with respect to the permitted origin of imports is accorded to actual users with specified m in imum export performance. Ind iv idual licenses may be issued ( 1) ad hoc, (2) on the basis of quotas allo- cated to established importers in accordance with their imports in a base period, ( 3) to actual users on the basis of their requirements, and (4) to registered exporters in accordance with the import con tent of their exports. Generally, licenses may be used to import from any country except Por tuga l, Rhodesia, South Africa, Nam ib ia (South West A f r i c a ), and Tibet; impor ts from these countries are prohibited.6 Such licenses are referred to as General Currency Area 6 The importation f rom Nepal of commod i t ies o r ig ina t ing in coun- tries other than Nepal or Ind ia also is proh ib i ted. INDIA Licenses, as distinct from Specific Licenses, which are issued for capital goods and other supplies against tied aid and are valid only for imports from the country or countries providing the assistance. Single Country Licenses are issued for certain imports from countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements are in force. Licensing policy generally accords priority to food- stuffs, fertilizers, capital goods, raw materials, and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is severely limited or prohibited. The import program for the period ending March 31, 1973 con- tains a prohibited l i s t7 of 795 commodities and a list of 339 items that are licensed on a "restricted basis," i.e., in minor amounts and only if comparable domestic products either are not available or are inadequate.8 Licensing is in most cases on an annual basis. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, of heavy electrical plant, and of goods imported to fu l f i ll government contracts and for irrigation proj- ects. Favored trea tment in allocating foreign exchange for imports of capital goods and equ ipment is given to "key" industries and "priority" industries. An import rep len ishment scheme enables registered exporters to obtain specified raw materials and other items needed for the ir export produc t ion; these commodities include certain items whose import otherwise is banned. In licensing imports of a capital na tu re, their essentiality, their potential for earn ing or saving foreign exchange, and the ava i lab i l i ty of med ium- term or long-term cred- its for financing such imports are taken into account. Import licenses for machine tools and other capital goods valued at more than Rs 750,000 are not granted un t il Ind ian producers have been given an opportunity by pub l ic advertisement to supply them; licenses are only issued if offers by domestic producers are dispro- por t iona te ly expensive or unacceptable for other rea- sons, or when no offers are received w i th in 45 days. For certain types of steel castings and forgings, this policy applies to all orders of more than Rs 50,000. A special fee is levied on a vo lun t a ry basis on imports of long-staple cotton. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presen- ta t ion of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may make paymen ts by opening letters of credit or by r em i t t ing against sight d ra f ts. Advance rem i t tances before shipping documen ts can be sub- mitted are not no rma l ly a l lowed; but in special cases, e.g., impor ts of mach inery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made w i th overseas manu fac tu re r s, the Reserve Bank g ran ts special authorization for advance payment for a part of the va lue of the import. 7 Impo r ts of ce r ta in p r o h i b i t ed i tems are p e rm i t t ed e i ther ad hoc or u n d er the impo rt rep len i shment scheme. 8 The import program announced in April 1973 added 20 items to the list of imports to be channe led t h r o u gh pub l ic sector agencies, imposed a ban on the import of 220 a d d i t i o n al i t em s, and restricted the import of 55 others. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA The impo rt of ce r ta in commod i t ies, i n c l u d i ng food- gra ins, ce r ta in oils and f a t s, a n um b er of pha rma- ceu t ical produc ts, corkwood, raw co t ton, raw j u t e, cashew n u t s, most f e r t i l i z e r s, most n o n f e r r o us metals, and m a ny categories of steel is reserved for the Gov- e rnm ent or state t r a d i ng en te rp r i se s, the most impo r t ant of wh ich are the State T rad ing Co rpo ra t ion (STC), the J u te Corporation of I n d i a, the Food Co rpo ra t ion of Ind i a, H i n d u s t an Steel Ltd. (H S L ), and the M in e r a ls and Metals T rad ing Co rpo ra t ion (MM TC ). In 1972-73, the n um b er of such commod i t ies was raised by 56 i tems to 168 items. In add i t ion, impo r ts of na t- u ral rubbe r, s u l p h ur produc ts, v i t am in s, and an t ib io t ics are no rma l ly a r ranged u n d er the auspices of the STC. Bu lk impor ts of cer ta in raw ma te r ia ls that are not reserved for the p u b l ic sector may also be a r ranged by state agencies, in c lud ing the I n d u s t r i al Raw Mate- r ia ls Assistance Cen t re ( I RM A C ). In add i t ion to any app l icab le impo rt du ty, impor ts are sub ject to a r egu l a to ry d u ty of 2.5 per cent ad va lorem. For some commod i t ies the regu la to ry du ty is 5 or 10 per cen t, and ex emp t ions i n c l u de g ra in and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, paymen ts abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is g ran ted f r e e ly for a few such paymen ts, m a i n ly for expenses in c id en t al to trade transactions and t r an s f e rs of recu r r ing con trac tual obligations. Premiums on insu rance policies issued in fore ign cur- rency to fore ign na t iona ls temporar i ly resident in Ind ia may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; Ind i an residents are prohibited f rom tak ing out l i fe insu rance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of fore ign banks are not allowed to t rans fer abroad any profits arising f rom the sale of nonbank ing assets. Prof it remittances by branches of fore ign firms established on or a f ter March 1, 1969 w i thout the prior approval of the Reserve Bank are not allowed. Remit- tances of dividends by en t i re ly foreign-controlled com- panies are limited when reserves are drawn on to finance the dividends. Otherwise there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to bene- ficiaries pe rmanen t ly resident outside India (except any income accruing to beneficiaries of the Na t ional Defence Rem i t tance Scheme), provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared, except where such repatriation rights have been vo lun- tarily surrendered. However, remittances to Indian na t iona ls who were granted exchange facilities for emi- gration on or a f ter Janua ry 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968 of dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits held in India are subject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year and to any special directions given to the person concerned when he was granted emigration fac i l i t ies. For persons who have been granted emigration facilities after April 30, 1968 on 230 income is rem i t tance of g rounds of ha rdsh ip, no a l lowed. Foreign emp loyees are pe rm i t ted to make reason- ab le rem i t tances to the ir own coun t r ies to pay insu r- ance p r em i um s, for the suppo rt of the ir f am i l i e s, and for o ther expenses. Au tho r ized dea lers may allow such rem i t tances by fo re ign n a t ion a l s, o ther th an na t iona ls of m a i n l a nd Ch in a, P a k i s t a n, P o r t u g a l, and Rhodesia, to the ex tent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a m a x im um of Rs 2,360 a mon th. Requests for the rem i t tance of larger am o u n ts are considered on their m e r i ts by the Rese rve B a n k. App l i c a t ions for fo r e ign exchange for travel or edu- ca t ion abroad are considered on an i n d i v i d u al basis and requ i re the prior app roval of the Reserve Bank. U n d er the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970, residents are per- m i t t ed to t r av el ab road w i t h o ut "P f o rm" fo rma l i t ies prov ided they have not visited any place outside Ind ia, other than Bangladesh, Mau r i t iu s, Nepa l, or Sri Lanka, d u r i ng the period of three years immed ia te ly preced- ing the date of the j o u r n e y; if t r a v e l i ng by Ind i an car- r ier on a r o u n d t r ip t icke t, they are en t i t led to fore ign exchange up to US$100 or its equ iva len t. The scheme is app l icab le to all des t ina t ions except Bangladesh, Maur i t ius, Nepa l, and Sri Lanka. Under a Mauritius Travel Scheme, substantially the same facilities are ava i lab le for travel to Mau r i t iu s, except that any visits to M au r i t ius w i th e i ther a g rant of foreign exchange by the Reserve B ank or passage booked w i th the prior app roval of the Reserve Bank are to be ignored for de te rm in ing the traveler's e l ig ib i l i ty under the three- year ru le. There are no restrictions on travel to Bang- ladesh and Nepa l, while passages may be booked free ly for air travel f rom Madras, T i ruch i rapa l l i, or Trivan- d rum to Colombo, Sri Lanka. The schemes men t ioned do not p rec lude access to other travel fac i l i t ies ( for purposes such as bus iness travel or a t tendance at con- ferences or sem inars, etc.) that may be approved under normal procedures. Foreign exchange for tourist travel, however, is not no rma l ly gran ted except und er the two schemes men t ioned. Travel agen ts and airlines and steamship companies are not permitted to book pas- sages abroad for persons resident in Ind ia (o ther than fo re ign na t iona ls temporar i ly resident in Ind i a) unless the trave ler is eligible und er the Foreign Travel Scheme or the Mau r i t ius Travel Scheme, has been granted travel exchange by the Reserve Bank, or has been specifically gran ted permission by the Reserve Bank to book his passage.9 Travel abroad to attend conferences is unre- 9 Prior permission to book passages abroad is not necessary, how- ever, for the following: deck passengers to or from Bu rma, Sri Lanka, Ma lays ia, S ingapore, Pak i s tan, Persian Gulf por ts, or East A f r ica; UN s t a ff membe rs and t h e ir f am i l i es whose t i ck e ts a re pu rcha sed by or on instruction f r om UN agencies; staff of a i r l ine and steamer companies trave l ing on o f f ic ial d u t y; and fam i l ies of such s ta ff posted on du ty abroad on a long-term basis; fo re ign d ip loma t ic personnel stationed in Ind ia; fam i l ies of persons g a i n f u l ly employed abroad proceeding to join the head of the fam i ly or persons gainfully employed abroad returning to the ir country of employment after a visit to India, provided the fares are paid abroad; employees of Indian insurance companies and banks posted on d u ty with their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution stricted p rov ided expenses are covered by the host i n s t i t u t i o n. The expo rt of I n d i an c u r r e n cy notes and co ins except to Bang ladesh and N ep al is, in gene ra l, p roh ib i t ed. The export to Bang lade sh and Nepal of I n d i an cu r rency notes in d e n om i n a t i o ns of Rs 100 or h igher is also pro- h ib i ted and r e s id en ts of I n d ia p roceed ing to Bang ladesh for p r i v a te v i s i ts a re p e rm i t t ed to take w i th them I n d i an c u r r e n cy no tes and co ins up to on ly Rs 500 a person a t r i p .10 However, deck passengers to Bu rma, Malaysia, S ingapo re, Pe r s ian G u lf ports, and East A f r ica and passenge rs to Sri L a n ka or P ak i s t an may take w i th them Rs 20 a person at any one t ime in I n d i an notes and co ins (w i t h in the l im it of Rs 30 for I n d i an and fo re ign c u r r e n cy notes c om b i n e d ). Re s iden ts may take out f o r e i gn no tes and co ins up to £3.50 or i ts equ iva- lent a pe rson; exchange b u r e a us of au tho r ized dealers and a u t h o r i z ed money -change rs at a i rpo r ts and sea- por ts are pe rm i t ted to se ll fo r e ign cu r rency notes up to a v a l ue of £3.50 or its equ iv a l ent a person to all passengers, w h e t h er I n d i an or fo re ign, but not to deck pasengers or t r a v e l e rs proceed ing to Bang ladesh, Sri L ank a, P ak i s t an, N e p a l, or B h u t a n, or to fo re ign n a t i o n a ls who are t r a n s it passengers or passengers hold- ing open-dated t icke ts ( in c lud ing r e tu rn t icke ts) issued ou t s ide Ind i a. Trave lers to Pak is tan may take Pak is tan rupees in notes or coins up to the equ iva lent of Rs 30 a pe r son; t rave le rs to Sri Lanka and deck passengers to Bu rm a, Ma lays ia, Singapore, Persian Gu lf ports, or East A f r i ca may take £ 1.50 a person. Non res iden ts may take out the fo re ign cu r rency which they declared on en t ry, less the amoun ts sold to au thor ized dealers and au tho r ized money-changers in India. A fo re ign travel t ax, at the ra te of 15 per cent on first class fa res and 10 per cent on economy / tou r ist class f a r e s, is payable where the f a re for an in te r- n a t i o n al j o u r n ey is paid in Ind i an cu r rency; tickets paid for in fo re ign exchange a re exempt f rom the levy. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are requ ired for on ly a few items, and most commodities may be exported w i thout a license. Most of the con tro l led commodities are licensed f r e e ly to all sh ippers; a few may be exported through established shippers; and a few commodities are sub- ject to export quo tas. Exports to Po r tuga l, Rhodesia, South A f r i c a, Nam ib ia (Sou th West A f r i c a ), and Tibet are proh ib i ted. Exchange con trol is exercised over the proceeds of exports to coun tr ies other than Bhu tan and Nepal. An expor ter must declare that the f u ll export proceeds branches abroad and the ir families; persons employed by foreign governmen ts p rov ided the fares are paid abroad; travel between India and Pak i s tan by persons ho ld ing restricted travel documents issued by the High Commission for Pakistan in India or India- Pak i s tan passports; air travel between Mad ras /T i ruch i rapa l l i /T r ivan- d rum and Colombo, Sri Lanka; and travel between Ind ia and Nepal and between Ind ia and Bangladesh. 10 W i th e f f e ct f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1973, re s iden ts of Ind ia v is i t ing Bang ladesh cou ld take w i th them f r e e ly I n d i an c u r r e n cy no tes and co ins up to only Rs 20 a person a visit. INDIA w i ll be received in and dea lt w i th in accordance with the prescr ip t ion of cu r rency regu la t ions. Foreign exchange ho ld ings, i n c l u d i ng the proceeds of expor ts, in most cu r renc ies 1T must be offered for sale aga in st rupees to an au thor ized dealer, un less the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to re ta in them, or the ho ld ings are the ba lance on Ju ly 8, 1947 in a s te r l ing account held by h im, or he is not dom ic i led in I n d ia and the f u n ds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be sur- rende red w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipment or, if the goods are sold to A f g h a n i s t an or Pak i s tan, w i th in three mon ths of sh ipmen t. The Reserve Bank may allow an ex ten s ion of the s ix-mon th period where exports of cap i tal goods or eng inee r ing goods are concerned. Some m a jor expor ts, i n c l u d i ng j u te m anu f a c tu r e s, a re sub ject to export du t ies. Expor ts of mica, tobacco, hand -woven woolen carpe ts, and lac are subject to m in i- mum prices. Some exports receive cash assistance; they are m a i n ly new m a n u f a c t u r e s, such as engineering goods. The cotton tex t i le indu s t ry receives grants-in-aid. An impo rt rep len i shment scheme provides certain im- port l icens ing fac i l i t ies for producers of manu fac tu red goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom inv is ib les in most currencies n must be su r rende red. All bills rendered by hotels to foreign tou r is ts and to non res ident Ind ian na t iona ls, other than b i l ls rendered to na t iona ls of Bilateral Account coun- tries, Bhu t an, and Nepal, and such other foreign na t iona ls and nonres ident Ind i ans as are specifically exempted f rom compliance w i th this rule by the Ind ian Gove rnmen t, mu st be collected by the hotels in foreign cu r rency. The impo rt of I n d i an cu r rency notes and coins is, in gene ra l, p roh ib i ted. However, deck passengers f rom B u rm a, Ma lays ia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East A f r i c a, and t rave le rs f rom Pak is tan and Sri Lanka, may import in to India Rs 20 a person against presenta- tion of ev idence that they prev ious ly had exported this amount f rom Ind ia. Persons coming to India from Bu rma, other than deck passengers, are allowed to b r ing in Ind ian cu r rency notes up to a va lue of Rs 50 for an adu lt and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers f rom Nepal may b r ing in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign cu r rency notes may be b rought in to India w i thout l im i t, provided that a dec- lara t ion of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes and coins together with the va lue of the trav- elers checks brought in exceeds US$500 or its equiva- lent. Persons ho ld ing fore ign currency notes may sell 11 Canad ian dollars, U. S. dollars, most Western Eu ropean currencies (including s ter l ing), D j ibou ti francs, East African shillings, Hong Kong do l lars, I raqi d inars, Malaysian dollars, Moroccan d irhams, Panaman ian balboas, Ph i l ipp ine pesos, Tunisian dinars, and Vietnamese piastres. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA them to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money-changer. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically f ree, except when it is to fo rm part of an inves tment requir- ing the prior approval of the Indian Governmen t. All applications for fo re ign direct inves tmen ts in India are screened by the Foreign Inves tment Board. Banks in India may borrow f ree ly f rom their branches and cor- respondents abroad, provided t h at borrow ings in excess of Rs 2 m i l l ion are u t i l ized for the purchase of rupees f rom the Reserve B ank or in the in t e rb ank market to f inance their no rmal business operations in Ind ia; repay- ment of such borrowings requ i res the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected on ly when the debtor bank has no ou ts tand ing borrowings in India f rom the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign inves tmen ts once adm i t ted are eligible for the same treatment that Ind i an enterprises receive. Capital invested in approved projects a f ter J a n u a ry 1, 1950 by residents of other coun t r ies, in c lud ing capital apprecia- tion on the original inv e s tm en t, may be repatriated at any time; the pub l ic has been advised, however, to obtain the Reserve Bank's p r ior app roval before effect- ing a sale when repa tr ia t ion of the assets may exceed Rs 1 m i l l i o n. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be rem i t ted in in s ta l lmen t s, usua l ly of Rs 1 m i l l ion a year, when the amoun ts sought to be repatriated are s ign i f ican t. The proceeds f rom l iqu ida ted foreign inve s tmen ts not e l ig ib le for repa t r ia t ion are blocked (see section on Nonres ident Accounts, above ). Local borrow ing by fo re ign -con t ro l led corporate bodies is restricted. Prior permission by the Reserve Bank is requ ired for fo re ign -con t ro l led p a r tn e r sh ip f irms or corporate bodies to accept a p p o i n tm e nt as agents or technical advisors. Ind ian na t iona ls ( i n c l u d i ng persons domiciled in Ind ia) are not no rm a l ly gran ted any fore ign exchange fac i l i t ies for em ig ra t ion purposes. In exceptional cases of hardsh ip, foreign exchange may be released up to a l im it of the equ iva lent of Rs 25,000 in one lump sum at the t ime of em ig ra t ion; the rema inder of the emi- gran t's assets and income are b locked and no fu r ther rem i t tances, in c lud ing pens ions, if any, are allowed. Foreign na t iona ls who are t empo r a r i ly resident but not domiciled in Ind ia (o ther than fo re ign d ip loma t ic per- sonnel and Chinese, Pak is tan i, Portuguese, and Rhode- sian n a t ion a l s) are perm i t ted at the time of the ir retire- ment to t rans fer to the ir own coun t r ies the proceeds f rom the sale of the ir inves tmen ts, sub ject to a limit of Rs 100,000 for each f am i ly at the t ime of re t irement and the r em a ind er in a n n u al i n s t a l lm e n ts not exceeding Rs 30,000 per a n n um, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in Ind ia; in add i t ion, they may t ran s fer a ll the ir c u r r e nt rem i t tab le assets in Ind ia. There are no restrictions on the impo rt in to Ind ia 232 of Indian or foreign securities. The export of securities and their transfer to nonresidents require approval, as does also the sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted to hold fore ign securities that have been acquired in a manner not invo lv ing a breach of the Ind ian exchange regu la t ions; residents, o ther than fore ign na t iona ls, who are private persons are not no rma l ly permitted to pur- chase securities or personal real estate outside India. Gold In Ind ia, detailed control is exercised over the manu- fac tu re, acquisition, possession, and disposal of gold in various fo rms through a Gold Control Administrator. There is a total ban on private possession of primary gold. A l though there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold ( in c lud ing coins) previously declared, there is restriction on their m anu f a c tu re and fresh acquisition. There is no restriction on the manu fac tu re, acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such o rnamen ts (which may be of any p u r i t y) above specified l im i ts are subject to the requ irement of declaration. The consump t ion of gold by indus t r ial users is regulated th rough permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over the dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold r e f in ing is u n d er state managemen t. The Government M int is licensed und er the Gold Control Law to accept tenders of gold for purposes of re f in ing and conversion into s tandard gold bars, for which strict specifications as to fineness, weight, dimensions, and markings are prescribed. Forward trad ing in gold or silver is prohibited. With the exception of jewelry cons t i tu t ing the per- sonal effec ts of a traveler, imports of gold in any fo rm by residents other than the monetary authorities requ ire special au thor iza t ion from the Reserve Bank and are not no rma l ly perm i t ted; established jewelers, however, are f rom t ime to t ime gran ted licenses to import gold for the m a n u f a c t u re in their workshops of jewe l ry for export. Exports of gold in any f o rm other than jewelry pro- duced in Ind ia for export and jewe l ry cons t i tu t ing the personal effec ts of a traveler are prohibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the mone tary author- ities. The export of gold o rnamen ts and jewelry to the B i la te ral Account coun tr ies and Pak is tan is prohibited. Changes during 1972 January /. The ma in tenance allowance for study or t r a i n i ng in all countries other than Canada and the Un i ted States was increased from £600 to £700 a year. For s tud ies at two un ivers i t ies in the Un i ted King- dom, the a l lowance was increased from <£600 to £750 a year. February 16. Compan ies w i th foreign direct owner- ship exceeding 75 per cent hencefor th were required to raise 40 per cent of the estimated cost of any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approved expansion by issuing add i t ional equity capital to Ind ian nationals. Other ratios were set for companies with smaller foreign holdings. March 15. To assist exporters, the Reserve Bank extended the forward cover facilities in sterling to authorized dealers for a period of three months beyond the delivery period of nine months. March 16. The regulatory import du ty of 2V2 per cent ad valorem (10 per cent on certain specified items) imposed on December 13, 1971 was modified. It was now levied at rates of 2l/2 per cent, 5 per cent, and 10 per cent ad valorem. Exempt items remained exempt. March 18. The upper limit on remittances abroad of the sale proceeds from capital investments by foreign na t iona ls temporarily resident in India upon retirement to their home countries was raised from Rs 75,000 to Rs 100,000 for each fam i ly. The max imum annual in s ta l lmen ts in which the balance of such assets could be transferred were increased f rom Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000. March 28. A bilateral trade and payments agreement w i th Bangladesh was signed; it came into effect imme- diately. (W i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1973 a special c lear ing a r rangement prov id ing for settlement in non- convertible Indian rupees of transactions relating to travel between the two countries was added .) April 3. The import policy for 1972/73 was announced. The jo int objectives of import substitu- tion and export promotion were ma in ta ined and there was a fu r ther expansion in the import activities of the state t rad ing agencies. Preferen t ial import licensing t rea tment accorded to priority industries was extended to other indu s t r ies when expor t ing at least 10 per cent of their production. From the list of permissible imports, 160 items were removed, a f u r t h er 87 items were added to the list of goods licensed on a "restricted basis," and 56 items were added to the 112 already channe led th rough pub l ic sector agencies. April 15. The daily allowances for senior business- men and t rave l ing salesmen und e r t ak ing business trips abroad were raised f rom US$40 and US$30 to US$50 and US$40, respectively, for the Un i ted States and Canada, and f rom £12.50 and £9 to £15 and £12, respectively, for all other coun tr ies. The a l lowances for study tours, a t tendance at conferences, and jou rna l is ts covering in te rna t ional events were s im i la r ly raised. May 15. Ru les for travel to Bangladesh were announced. A i r l in e / s t e am er companies and travel agents were perm i t ted to book passages to Bang ladesh for residents of Ind ia on payment of fares in Ind ian rupees, subject to completion of a "P form"; the fo rm did not requ ire p r ior app roval and no restriction was imposed on the numb er of tr ips to Bangladesh by any passenger. Res iden ts of Ind ia on pr iva te visits to Bang- ladesh were perm i t ted to take out w i th them Ind ian cu r rency notes up to Rs 500 a person a trip (in d enom in a t ions of less than Rs 100). INDIA May 25. India's exchange control regulations gen- erally became applicable to transactions with Bangla- desh. Transactions not settled under the "limited pay- ments rupee trade arrangements" could be settled in any Sterling Area currency other than Pakistan rupees and were generally subject to the same regulations as applicable to other countries. Travel to Bangladesh, however, was not counted as visits abroad for purposes of the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970. Special scales of allowances were fixed for visits to Bangladesh for vari- ous purposes; foreign exchange for travel to Bangla- desh was not granted for tourist travel, and when granted for other types of travel was made available only in Ind ian rupee travelers checks encashable only in Bangladesh. June 8. Indian citizens resident abroad and wishing to re tu rn to Ind ia to take up employment or to set up small indus tr ial un i ts were upon application exempted, for a period of three years, f rom the requirement that any fo re ign currency balances in their possession be su r rende red w i th in 30 days of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the fo rm of foreign cur- rency, the holder could use the f u n ds for the import, subject to import license, of equipment and capital goods. Fur thermore, these persons had the option of surrender ing their balances immediately, with the right to reacquire them within three years in the event of their deciding to go back to a fore ign country. These various facilities were not ava i lab le in respect of earnings aris- ing f rom emp loyment abroad with any Indian-owned organization. June 21. Cer ta in l im i ta t ions were imposed on the mu l t i la te ral use of Ind ian rupee counterpart f u n ds owned by the U. S. Gove rnmen t. June 23. Ind ia ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. June 23. The exchange ma rket was closed. reopened on June 28. June 26. Following the floating of s ter l ing, the cen- t ral rate was ma in ta ined at Rs 18.9677 = £ stg. 1. June 26. The Reserve Bank changed its spot buy ing and selling rates for s te r l ing f rom £5.2851 and £5.2592 per Rs 100 to £5.2910 and £5.2632 per Rs 100. July 4. The Reserve Bank changed its spot buy ing and se l l ing rates for s te r l ing to £5.3333 and £5.3050 per Rs 100. July 5. The Reserve Bank resumed its fo rwa rd pu r- chases of s ter l ing, which had been suspended since J u ne 26, for deliveries up to six mon ths only. August 2. Rem i t tance abroad of d iv idends by com- pan ies that are 100 per cent fo re ign con tro l led and that finance the d iv idends by d raw ing on their reserves hencefor th was on ly pe rm i t ted if the Reserve Bank was satisfied that the reserves had been drawn upon only to ma in ta in d iv idend paymen ts at the average level of the p rev ious five years, or at 10 per cent of the paid-up It 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA c ap i t a l, wh ichever was larger. D raw ings on reserves could not exceed 10 per cent of the sum of pa id-up cap i tal and f r ee reserves, and the ba lance of f ree reserves a f t er d r aw i ng could not f a ll below 15 per cent of the to tal of pa id -up capital and f r ee reserves. (Th is ac t ion had been announ c ed on Ap r il 14 .) August 22. The Reserve Bank ex tended the max i- mum m a t u r i ty of its fo rwa rd purchases of s ter l ing f rom 6 to 9 mon ths, w i th the fac i l i ty of one or more ex tens ions of the i n i t i al con t rac ted per iod, sub ject to the cond i t ion that the total de l ivery period did not exceed 12 mon ths. (W i th effect f rom J a n u a ry 13, 1973 the Reserve Bank would en te r ta in requests f rom authorized dealers for ex tens ions of fo rwa rd s te r l ing purchase con- tracts on ly near the due date of the con trac t, and in any case not ear l ier than two weeks be fo re the due date. On Feb rua ry 13, 1973 the Reserve Bank sus- pended its fo rwa rd purchases of s te r l ing. They were resumed on March 8, 1973, for periods up to 6 mon ths on ly, at the same rates as be fo re Feb rua ry 13.) August 24. All exports of tex t i les became the respon- sibility of the Na t ional Textile Corporation. All textile mills were required to export at least part of their production. August 29. The Gove rnment in troduced a Foreign Exchange Regu la t ion Bill to put exchange control on a new s ta tu tory basis. The Bill was not enacted du r ing 1972. October 7. The period w i th in which residents acquir- ing fore ign currency f rom nonres iden ts (as remunera- tion for services or as a g i ft or inher i tance) must o f fer it for sale to an au thor ized dealer was reduced f rom 30 days to 7 days f rom the date of receipt. Fu r the r, resi- dents were not allowed to receive paymen ts in fo re ign exchange by order or on behalf of any person resident outside India except in the form of postal orders and postal money orders issued by a post office outside India, checks drawn on overseas banks, bank d ra f ts and travelers checks issued abroad, and foreign cur- rency notes received by them directly from out of India. However, nonresidents could make payments in Ind ian rupees dur ing their stay in India, provided the rupee funds were derived through sale of fore ign exchange to an authorized dealer in Ind ia. The effect of this directive was to prohibit residents, other than author- ized dealers and money-changers, f rom acquiring fo r- eign exchange from any person actually in India. October 7. Residents re turn ing f rom travel abroad were required to declare at the point of entry all fore ign exchange they were bringing in (bankno tes, travelers checks, and other forms of foreign exchange). October 9. The Reserve Bank was prepared to pur- chase U. S. dollars, spot and forward. Spot dollars were purchased at the cross rate between the London mar- ket's spot buying rate for the U. S. dollar at the close of the preceding working day and the Reserve Bank's 234 spot b u y i ng rate for s te r l ing preva i l ing on the date of purchase. Forward purchases were for delivery up to th ree or six mon th s. (Bo th spot and fo rwa rd purchases were suspended on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 and by the end of March 1973 rema ined suspended, with the excep- t ion that w i th e f fect f rom Feb rua ry 16, 1973 the Reserve B a nk was prepared to purchase U. S. dollars spot f rom au thor ized dea lers at a special rate of Rs 7.60 per U. S. do l l a r, aga inst purchases of U. S. do l lar b ankno t es and t rave le rs checks made by the au thor ized dealer concerned at rates not lower than those prescr ibed by the Reserve B a n k .) October 13. In v iew of the exchange risks resu l t ing f rom the floating of the Ind i an rupee, impor ters of goods financed by aid were requ i red to subm it a bank g u a r a n t ee in rupees for 3 per cent of the va lue of the impo rt licenses. Im p l em e n t i ng procedures were announced by the Reserve Bank on November 14. November 1. Hotels were requ ired to accept all pay- men ts due f rom fo re ign tourists and Ind i an nationals res id ing ou ts ide Ind ia in fo r e ign exchange only. Na t iona ls of coun t r ies w i th which rupee paymen ts agreemen ts were in fo rce, Nepal and B h u t a n, and such other fo re ign na t iona ls and nonres ident Indians as were spec if ica l ly exempted f rom compliance with this ru le by the I n d i an Gov e rnm ent could settle their b i l ls in rupees. November 3. Fo l low ing s im i lar measures taken in the Un i ted K ingdom on J u ne 23, the system of classifica- t ion of fo re ign coun t r ies for purposes of exchange con- trol was reorgan ized and the prescription of currency rules were revised accordingly. S ter l ing Area Accounts and Convertible Accoun ts were abolished and were replaced by External Accounts. There was no change in respect of the B i la teral Accounts. Foreign countries hencefor th were classified either as Ex te rnal Account countries or Bilateral Account countries. November 3. The pound s ter l ing was added to the list of 13 "permitted currencies" (see foo tno te 1). November 30. The ru le whereby any person could br ing fo re ign cu r rency notes in to Ind ia w i thout limit provided he declared them to the customs authorities on his a r r ival in the prescribed fo rm was modified. Hencefor th the currency declaration fo rm need not be completed where the aggregate v a lue of currency notes and travelers checks brought in by a passenger did not exceed US$500 or its equ iva len t. December 31. The bilateral paymen ts agreement with Yugoslavia expired. (Settlements took place in con- vertible currencies with effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1973, except in respect of export and import contracts con- cluded be fo re December 31, 1972 which, under con- tractual obligations, required f u l f i l lm e nt par t ly in 1973; these were to be settled in nonconve r t ib le rupees before September 30, 1973.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Exchange Rate System * No par value for the Indones ian Rup iah has been established w i th the Fund. In the Jaka r ta exchange marke t, t ransac t ions in U. S. do l la rs are effec ted at rates w i th in 1 per cent either side of Rp 415 per US$1; on December 31, 1972 the buy ing and se l l ing rates were Rp 414.50 and Rp 416.00, respec t ive ly. Exchange rates for o ther currenc ies are de te rm ined on the basis of the Jaka r ta rates for the U. S. do l la r, the in terven- tion currency, and the rates in in te rna t ional marke ts for the currencies concerned. Add i t ional effec t ive ex- change rates result f rom the application of a 5 per cent exchange tax to the proceeds of exports of coconut oil and a 10 per cent exchange tax to the proceeds from the export of most other commodities. In the Jakar ta Bourse three calls for exchange are conduc ted each week und er the m an ag em ent of Bank Indonesia. B i d d i ng for exchange in the call is restricted to the fo re ign exchange b anks and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank Indones ia is comm i t ted to deal with any w i l l i ng buyer or se l ler at the going rate. Represen ta t ives of the fo re ign exchange banks no t i fy Bank Indonesia of the ir supp ly to the ma rket and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requ i remen ts at a p a r t i c u l ar ra te. Bank Indones ia clears the market at the i n t e r v e n t i on rate. The Bank also offers au thor- ized banks certain facilities for forward contracts in respect of aid exchange and for swap transactions. Sabang is e n t i r e ly ou ts ide the Indones ian exchange and trade con trol system, but the Indones ian rupiah is legal tender there. It is also legal tender in Irian Jaya (West I r i a n ). The exchange rate between the Irian Barat rup iah and the Indonesian rup iah is IBRp 1 = Rp 18.9. The exchange rate of the Irian Barat rupiah in terms of currencies other than the Indonesian rup iah is IBRp 21.96 = US$1 or the equi- valent for other currencies. The exchange taxes levied on most export proceeds are applicable also in Irian Jaya, giving rise to additional effective exchange rates.1 Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is en trus ted to Bank Indonesia, the M in is try of Trade, the M in is try of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs au thor i t ies. Exchange control is adm in is tered by Bank Indonesia and the M in is try of Finance. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was be ing deva lued, Indonesia ma in ta ined the exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1 unchanged. It did so also when new exchange rate arrangements came into effect abroad on March 19, 1973. 1 The I r ian Barat rup iah ceased to be legal tender in Ir ian Jaya on March 31, 1973. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts and receipts mu st be effected th rough the au thor ized banks and are no rm a l ly effected in converti- ble cu r renc ies. Export proceeds must be received in Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian do l la rs, Dan ish k rone r, deu tsche ma rk, French f rancs, Hong Kong do l la rs, I t a l i an l ire, Japa- nese y en, Ma lays ian do l lars, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, New Zea land do l la rs, Norweg ian k rone r, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Singapore dollars, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f ranc s, and U. S. do l la r s. Indones ia has no opera- t ive p a ym e n ts agreemen ts .- Nonresident Accounts No d i s t in c t ion is made between resident and non- res ident accoun ts, as the 1964 Foreign Exchange Act recognizes on ly fo re ign n a t i o n a ls and Indonesian nationals. There are no restrictions on the opening by fore ign na t iona ls of accoun ts in Indonesia in rupiahs or fo re ign currencies. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of au thor ized impor ters and an in i t ial deposit is requ ired for registration. Since October 3 1, 1968, on ly Indones ian na t iona ls may obtain an impo r te r 's license, but cer ta in established foreign firms have been enabled to re ta in the ir licenses and new fo re ign inves tors can obtain an importer's license restricted to the import of ma ter ia ls required for their own projects. Imports from Angola, mainland China, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of specified commodities, including com- pletely assembled commercial vehicles and motorcycles; radio and television sets in built-up or semiknocked- down condition; sarongs; galvanized iron sheets; iron roofing sheets; mosquito sticks; second-hand goods; matches; monosodium glutamate; mattresses; and speci- fied types of textiles, car tires, batteries, printed matter, office supplies, animal traps, bottles, and lamps and bulbs. The importing of cloves, wheat and wheat flour, fertilizer, and refined sugar is restricted to specified approved importers. No licenses are required for im- ports. Most goods may be imported either with general exchange (Devisa Umum) or aid exchange (Devisa Kredit). For imports financed with aid exchange a compensation payment is granted after customs clear- ance; this payment ranges from Rp 20 to Rp 60 per U. S. dollar of landed value, depending on country of origin and /or donor country. Importers may w i thout bank guarantee contract short- - Indonesia ma in ta ins inoperative bilateral payments agreements with mainland China, Czechoslovakia, and Poland. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA term credit under "merchant letters of credit," but otherwise sight letters of credit are requ ired for all pri- vate sector impor ts with the exception of parcel imports, goods brought in by travelers of a value not exceeding US$100, and imports specifically authorized by the M in is try of Trade (such as goods constituting part of a fore ign i n v e s tm e n t ). A rup iah deposit of 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit must be lodged w i th Bank Indonesia when a letter of credit is opened in respect of government imports; for nongovernment imports, importers are required to make an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the letter of credit value when they subm it applications for letters of credit to authorized banks. Importers' requests for registration of merchant letters of credit with foreign exchange banks must be accompanied by an advance payment in rupiahs of 25 per cent of the value. The deposits are released to the impor ter only for payment or when he presents correspondence f rom suppliers indicating that the merchant le t ter of credit has been canceled. The amount of the deposit against letters of credit for non- government imports f inanced w i th aid exchange is left to the discretion of the authorized bank if the latter purchases aid exchange forward f rom Bank Indonesia. Import duties, which are almost without exception ad va lorem, are imposed on the c. & f. value of the commodities converted at the customs valuation rate (Rp 415 per US$1 on December 31, 1972). The import duty structure is complex; it includes a basic du ty, sur- charges, exemptions, and extra levies. Surcharges or exemptions are applied to most of the basic duties. For some tar iff items which are free of basic du ty there is an extra levy of between Rp 10 and Rp 250 per U. S. dollar on the c. & f. value of the goods. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are levied on most imports on their c. & f. value plus import duty. Items which are exempted from import duties are also exempted f rom sales taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds from inv is ib les need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank- notes but only Rp 2,500 in Indonesian notes and coins other than gold coins; Indonesian commemorative gold coins may be taken out freely up to Rp 65,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, ma in land Ch ina, Israel, Rho- desia, and South A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted, as are exports to all countries of gold ore and pure gold; certain cate- gories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber; certain logs and timber; and scrap bronze, copper, and iron (other than scrap bronze and copper f rom Irian J a y a ). The prior authorization of the Minister of Trade is required for the export of flatbark crepe, cinchona bark, iron scrap (from Java and Madu ra ), silver, and antiques of 236 cultural value. Otherwise, all commodities may be freely exported by registered private firms and state trading firms. Full surrender requirements are in effect for the proceeds from all nonpetroleum exports (except in "border-crossing" trade; see below). All exporters except the petroleum companies, cer- tain mining companies, and licensed "border-crossing" traders must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the value of the goods to be exported. For the principal export commodities other than petro- leum, the sales price must not be lower than "indica- tion" prices ("check" prices) determined periodically by the Minister of Trade. The f u ll proceeds from exports other than pe tro leum, products of certain min- ing companies, and goods exported by licensed "border- crossing" traders are subject to surrender and, except for finished goods, batik textiles and other handicrafts, and a few other items, are subject to a 10 per cent exchange tax; a 5 per cent exchange tax is levied on the proceeds from coconut oil exports.3 Exports of petroleum and of products of ce r ta in m in ing companies are also exempt f rom exchange tax. The exporter settles the tax on receipt of the export proceeds. A specific cess is levied on exports of certain agricultural products and on in ter is land t rad ing in the same products. Agri- cultural commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Ma lays ia and Singapore in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" trade, the va lue of import or export shipments must not exceed M$600 a mon th, if transported overland, and M$600 a sh ipmen t, if transported by sea. Capital The Foreign Capital Inves tment Law of Janua ry 10, 1967, as amended in August 1970, provides various incentives for the inves tment of fore ign capital in Indo- nesia. Investments in specified fields of activity (includ- ing harbors, electric power, sh ipp ing, railroads, and commerce) may be unde r taken only through a joint ven tu re with an Indones ian par tner. The Investment Law specifies a system of inves tment priorities; it assigns the highest p r io r i ty to certain specified fields, followed by inves tmen ts which are located outside Java, inves tmen ts which genera te or save fore ign exchange, and inves tmen ts in i n f r a s t r u c t u r e. Enterprises that are wholly or la rge ly operated in Indonesia as separate business un i ts must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have the ir domicile in Indonesia. The operation pe rm it for fo re ign inves tment is usually valid for a max imum of 30 years. Among the inducements o f fe red are exemp t ion f rom, or reduction in, corporate and d iv idend taxes for a certain number of years. Joint ven tu res by Indones ians and fore igners may benefit 3 Exemp t ion f r om the 10 per cent exchange tax was granted on J a n u a ry 10, 1973 for alcohol d i s t i l led f r om rice or manioc, and on J a n u a ry 16, 1973 for exports of v a r ious textile products, including ready-made clothes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from similar tax incentives. Other inducements include exemption f rom customs duties, accelerated deprecia- tion allowances, and permission to offset initial losses against subsequent profits; foreign investments with a minimum capital of US$15 million may receive addi- tional benefits. The transfer of profits (a f ter settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia) is guar- anteed. Guarantees of t rans fer are also given in respect of t rans fe rs relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign persons in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances af ter the expiration of the tax holiday f rom corporation tax. The law pro- vides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the investments benefit f rom tax relief; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a t ran s fer permit. The law implicitly provides guarantees against nationalization of foreign invest- ments. Equitable and mu tua l ly satisfactory arrange- ments are stipulated for resolving the issue of just com- pensation in the event of nationalization of any specific foreign investment. A special regime applies to enterprises previously nationalized but now restored to the original owners. Such enterprises are allowed tax holidays for a period of three years on new capital in foreign currency brought in w i th in the context of rehabilitation and expansion programs that have been approved by the Government. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of the assets of those restored enterprises which ceased operations could take place w i th effect from January 1, 1972 at the rate of one fifth of the proceeds each year, with a fu ll guarantee as to their value in foreign cur- rency. The t ran s fer of proceeds f rom the sale of assets of enterprises whose period of operation has expired or whose operations have been term ina ted by the Gov- ernment is allowed at the rate of one fifth a year effec t ive f rom the time of the sale of assets. This transfer is guaran teed as to its value in foreign currency. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benef it of fore ign creditors holding nonguaran- teed claims against Indonesia. Rup iahs covered by the Scheme are adm in is tered in two k inds of DICS-Rupiah Accounts, A and B, the former relating only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make inves tmen ts in Indonesia are paid in rup iahs in settlement of their claims. These claims are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's DIGS rup iahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Investment Law of 1967, for the purchase of foreign exchange for the impo rt of equipment and raw materials necessary for the es tab l ishment and operation of those projects. There are no l im i ta t ions on the remittance to Indo- nesia of capital in the fo rm of fore ign exchange or in commodities. Foreign exchange banks may free ly bor- INDONESIA row abroad within limits established by Bank Indonesia. Certain other borrowing abroad is subject to control. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad.4 Indonesian citizens and residents of fore ign national- ity may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiahs or in foreign cur- rency (w i th the exception of securities covered by a special arrangement w i th the Ne ther lands). Gold Indonesia has issued five commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited by virtue of Decision No. 68 /KP / IV /70 of April 17, 1970 of the Minister of Trade. Travelers may freely take out Indo- nesian commemorative gold coins up to Rp 65,000 a person; amounts in excess require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Imports of gold are free of license but require prior notification to the Ministry of Indus- try and are subject to an extra levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes during 1972 March 24. Bank Indonesia introduced a facility under which the amount of the deposit to be made upon the opening of letters of credit for nongovernment imports financed with aid exchange was left to the discretion of the banks if they concluded a forward contract with Bank Indonesia for the purchase of aid exchange. The max imum period of such contracts was three months and the p rem ium charged by Bank Indonesia was Vs of 1 per cent a month. Prolongation of the contract was not allowed, wh i le cancellation was subject to a penalty of 12!/2 per cent of the rupiah va lue of the contract. March 25. Impor ts of goods on lists C and D hence- fo r th could be financed also w i th aid exchange; previ- ous ly these goods could on ly be imported with general exchange, while most goods in lists A and B could be imported e i ther w i th aid exchange or with general exchange. April 10. Export proceeds hence fo r th could only be received in Au s t ra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Hong Kong do l lars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ma lays ian dollars, Ne the r lands guilders, Norweg ian k rone r, Por tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore do l lars, Swedish k rono r, Swiss francs, and U. S. do l lars. June 23. Bank Indones ia, for the imp lemen ta t ion of 4 On Ap r il 12, 1973 a u n i f o rm reserve r e q u i r em e nt of 30 per cent became app l icab le to the l iab i l i t ies of commercial banks denom ina ted in fo r e ign cu r renc ie s, inc lud ing all advance impo rt deposits. The exist- ing d i f f e r e n t i al r equ i r em en ts were abolished. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA P res iden t ial Decision No. 3 of 1 9 7 1, established the r equ i r em ent that the d r a ft loan agreemen ts with respect to fo re ign cap i tal i n v e s tm e nt be subm i t ted to Bank Indones ia for eva lua t ion. July 1. The ra te and the me thod of co l lec t ion of the MPO (w i t h h o l d i ng t a x) app l ied to impo r ted commodi- ties were changed. The ra te was increased f rom 2 per cent to 3 per cent of the rup iah equ iva lent of the U. S. do l lar v a lue of impor ts. Wh i le p rev iou s ly importers paid the tax at the t ime of sale to wholesalers, they now had to pay it to the ir b ank be fo re th ey could c lear the goods th rough customs; impo r te rs could then collect the tax f rom the wholesaler at the t ime of sale. July 12. Expor ts of ce r ta in lea ther sandals were exempted f r om the 10 per cent exchange tax. July 12. Banks were proh ib i ted f rom issuing bank guaran tees to nonres iden ts on e i ther rup iah or fo re ign exchange liabilities. July 31. Agreement was reached with the Ne ther- lands regard ing certain unse t t led matters relating to securities. October 12. Presidential Decree No. 59 /1972 on bor- rowing abroad was issued. The Decree required that the Minister of F inance negotiate and receive all foreign credits on beha lf of the Cen t ral Gove rnmen t. Foreign bo r row ing by pub l ic corporate bodies and local or reg ional g o v e r nm e nt corporate bodies became subject to approval by the M in i s t er of F inance in consultation w i th the M i n i s t er of N a t ion al P l ann ing and the Gov- e rnor of Bank Indones ia. October 16. Expor ts of fireworks were exempted f rom the 10 per cent exchange tax. October 18. Expor ts of bay leaves and lime leaves were exempted f r om the 10 per cent exchange tax. October 26. Export proceeds could also be received in New Zea land dollars. November I. Exports of copra and copra cake were exempted f r om the 10 per cent exchange tax. November 1. The exchange tax on exports of coco- nut oil was reduced f r om 10 per cent to 5 per cent. 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Exchange Rate System * The par v a l ue is 0.0108055 g ram of fine gold per I r a n i an R i a l, co r re spond ing to R ls 82.2425 = SDR 1 or Rls 75.75 = US$1. The o f f i c i al rates for the U .S. d o l l a r, the o n ly c u r r e n cy t h at is o f f i c i a l ly quo ted, a re R ls 76.25 b u y i ng and R ls 76.50 se l l ing, per US$1. Exchange rates for cu r renc ies quo ted by the commer- c ial b a n ks 1 are based on these b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U. S. d o l l ar and the exchange rates of the cur- rencies conce rned in London; the commercial banks are not p e rm i t t ed to quo te b u y i ng rates of less than Rls 75.00 per US$1 or se l l ing rates h igher th an Rls 76.50 per US$1, and on December 31, 1972 their rates for the U. S. do l lar were the same as those at the Bank Ma rkazi I ran ( the cen t ral b a n k ). Exchange rates for currencies other th an those men t ioned above are determined by the au tho r ized b a n ks on the basis of the ir rates aga inst the U. S. d o l l ar in in t e rn a t ion al exchange marke ts. The central bank publishes daily exchange rates for 13 c u r r e n c i e sT for purposes of the ca lcu la t ion of import reg i s t ra t ion fees and impo rt du t ies; these rates are based on the o f f ic ial rates for the U. S. do l lar and the London ma rket rates for the currenc ies concerned. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol au tho r i ty is vested in the central bank. In p r i n c i p l e, a ll fore ign exchange transactions must take place th rough au thor ized banks. The import and export of goods is governed by regulations issued annu a l ly by the M in i s t ry of Economy and approved by the Council of Ministers. Import policy is fo rmu la ted w i th in an overall fore ign exchange budget. Foreign trade relations w i th A lban ia, ma in land China, Eastern Ge rmany, and No r th Korea are under the control of the Foreign Transactions Corporation within the Min- istry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in sterling, U. S. dollars, or the currency of the country concerned, provided that the currency is one which is quoted or previously quoted by the central bank.1 Transactions with the six countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements 2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U. S. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973, that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the par value was maintained unchanged in terms of gold. The e f fec t ive par i ty relationship for the U. S. dollar became Rls 68.1747 = US$1, and new official buy ing and selling rates were established at Rls 68.60 and Rls 68.85, respectively, per U. S. dollar. On June 9, 1973 the official buy ing and selling rates were changed to Rls 67.50 and Rls 67.75, respectively, per U. S. dollar. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs5 Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, U. S. S. R. and dollars. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey re la t ing to visible trade (excluding border trade, petro- leum and petroleum products, and defense ma ter ia ls) are settled over clearing accounts ma in ta ined by the respective central banks in U. S. dollars. Proceeds from exports to India may be accepted in Indian rupees. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to ma in ta in accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with authorized banks; rial accounts may be freely used only for paymen ts in Iran, their conversion in to foreign currencies being subject to central bank approval. Foreign nationals may also ma in ta in time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran. Foreign currency accounts of foreign nationals may be used freely for t rans fe rs abroad or for sales to authorized banks, provided that such funds originate abroad. Iranian nationals may freely ma in ta in time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; they also may freely retain, on current accounts with domestic banks, all foreign exchange they receive other than export proceeds. Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Economy. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of nonluxury goods which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic require- ments, are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies (generally the Ministry of Economy) before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports are goods that may be permitted occasionally by the Ministry of Econ- omy when the supply of the protected local product is considered insufficient. For "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these comprise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports without payment of "authorized" goods require prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and the central bank; permission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable institutions or government organizations; machinery, spare parts, and raw or intermediate materials for productive institutions, 3 Exports and imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral export/import list for countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Economy. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN up to US$500 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$150 a shipment. The import of g if ts, whe ther "authorized" or "unauthorized" commodities, is restricted to Rls 10,000 for each person a year. Specified commodities, such as sugar, tobacco, and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly. Unless otherwise specifically authorized, payment for all commercial imports must be made through the official exchange market, with foreign exchange obtained from the bank ing system. Payments may be made either against bills for collection or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without authorization for goods (mainly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Circular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 (Iranian date 12.5.1344). Payments for imports of other goods required by domestic industries may also be made against bills for collection with special permission from the central bank. All other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. All orders for imports must be registered with the Bank Markazi Iran through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and special regulations apply to certain commodities when originat- ing in Hong Kong. No import registrations are accepted for commodities originating in Eastern Germany. At the time of registration of imports, an import registration fee of 5.5 per cent of the amount of an import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate of Rls 76.50 per US$1, is collected by authorized banks .4 The fee is charged on all imports except those brought in under the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran. Importers must at the same time deposit w i th the Bank Markazi Iran, through an authorized bank, Rls 10, Rls 15, Rls 30, or Rls 75 (depending on the essentiality of the goods) per US$1 for goods for wh ich payment must be made against a documen tary letter of credit.5 This deposit is r e fund ab le upon presen ta t ion of the customs clearance certificate a f ter the respective goods have been cleared th rough customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The advance import deposit is not required for commodities wh ich may be impor ted on a collection basis, whe ther they are in fact impor ted against a bill for collection or no t. The cen tral b ank may pe rm it the sh i f t ing of imports f rom the category in which an advance import deposit is required and f inanc ing must be on a letter of credit basis to the category in which bills for collection (with or w i thout advance deposit) are permitted. Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Almost all imports are subject to commercial profit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are in addition to any applicable customs duty. The ad valorem commercial profit tax ranges from 1 per cent to 200 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial profit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the pres- entation of shipping documents endorsed by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for those imports. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insu rance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Foreign nationals working in Iran as technical assistants and whose employment has been recognized as necessary by the Government may take out in foreign exchange about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The annual travel allowance for Iran ian nationals —which is limited to US$500 G or its equ iva lent in other currencies for travel to Europe, the United States, or the Far East, and to US$100 for other countries except Rhodesia —may be sold by au thor ized banks upon presentation of the traveler's passport. For children under 12 the allow- ances in principle are 30 per cent of the above amounts, but in practice the f u ll allowances are granted. Banks may sell up to US$2,000 7 a person for I ran ian nation- als trave l ing abroad or residing abroad, for medical trea tmen t. In add i t ion, authorized banks may at any time sell fore ign exchange up to the equ iv a l ent of <£ stg. 508 against a w r i t ten request, to I ran ian na t iona ls for assist- ance to persons abroad or for other personal use without the submission of supporting documen ts, provided that the remittance is made in the fo rm of a mail or tele- graphic t r an s f e r; au tho r ized banks charge a commission of Rls 130 on each such t rans fe r. I ran ian nationals may also free ly make remittances abroad f rom domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign exchange received f rom sources other than exports; balances in 4 The fee is 15 per cent for bananas and 100 per cent for impo r ts pe rm i t ted under the Export-Import Regu la t ions for the I ran ian y e ar 1351 but not allowed the year before. •"• For a few commod i t ies sub ject to deposit, the c e n t r al bank f rom time to t ime allows an ad hoc reduc t ion of Rls 10 per US$1. 0 Increased on June 12, 1973 to the equ iva lent of Rls 50,000. 7 Increased on J u ne 12, 1973 to the equ iva lent of Rls 200,000; addi- t ional f o r e i gn exchange could be obtained against medical bills certi- f ied by an I r a n i an consul abroad. s Increased on J u ne 12, 1973 to the equ iva lent of Rls 10,000. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution such accounts are freely transferable. Purchases of foreign currency from the banks for payments in respect of noncommercial invisibles not mentioned above require licenses from the central bank. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-voyage exit permit, except for pilgrimage travel, for which the tax is Rls 3,000. Lower rates apply to family members traveling on the same passport (w ife and children from 7 to 18 years of age), viz., Rls 750 a person for pilgrim- ages and Rls 2,500 a person for other travel. Iranians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from payment of the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 3,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$100 into other currencies upon presentation of their visaed passport. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. A commercial profit tax is imposed on a few exports, ma in ly consumer goods or raw materials. The commercial profit tax and customs duty charged at the time of import of raw materials contained in manu fac tu red goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Certain minor exports are granted incentive pay- ments by the Center for the Promotion of Exports. The central bank offers preferential discount facilities for export bills. The exporter must offer for surrender the foreign exchange value of his exports, as appraised by the customs, w i th in eight months a f ter the goods have been exported. Authorized banks accept export proceeds only in specified currencies (see footnote 1) or, for exports to India, in Indian rupees. Exporters who do not have foreign exchange proceeds from exports at their disposal may meet their surrender obligation by delivery of either foreign exchange f rom their own holdings or foreign exchange sold to an authorized bank by a third par ty; the central bank's permission is required to meet the surrender requ irement through these alternative means. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account w i th an authorized bank, where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder (except for payments in respect of commercial impor ts). The import of I ran ian currency by travelers to Iran is permitted in unlimited amounts. The repatriation of Iranian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. IRAN Travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Iranian nationals may retain in domestic foreign cur- rency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely (except for payments in respect of com- mercial impor ts), as may domestic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Transfers of capital abroad which would involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the bank ing system require the approval of the central bank; except as noted below, such approval is given only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran (1955) and regulations implementing the law, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activi- ties in industry, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance w i th Article 1 of the Law for the Attraction and Protec- tion of Foreign Investment and the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and /or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the selling rate prevailing at the date of trans- fer. However, the central bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be con- verted into rials at a rate mu tua l ly agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to the funds when they are repatriated. Capital imported in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the central bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the buy ing rate prevailing at the date of application for conversion. The law does not set up any limit of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Supervisory Board encourages participation by Iranians in the proposed investment. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Iran; imports and exports of gold in any form, except jewelry consti- tu t ing the personal effects of a trave ler ,9 require the prior approval of the central bank, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties; in practice, all imports of nonmonetary gold are made by the Bank Melli Iran (an authorized commer- cial b ank) and exports are prohibited. Imports of gold are free from customs duty and commercial benefit tax but are subject to the 5.5 per cent import registration fee. The week ly quo ta t ions of Bank Me l li Iran for domestic sales inc lude the import registration fee and a 4 per cent commission. Commercial imports of arti- 9 Such jewe lry must have a cost of produc t ion equ iva lent to at least one f o u r th of the total value; the assessment is made by the customs. It must also meet the requ i remen ts set by the I r an i an Ins t i tu te of Standards. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN cles con t a in ing a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold, such as watches, requ i re licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Economy. Changes during 1972 March 21. The Export-Import Regu la t ions for the I ran ian year 1351 (M a r ch 21, 1972 to March 20, 1973) came in to effec t. The import registration fee for goods that could be impor ted u n d er these regula- tions but not the year be fo re was set at 100 per cent, and that for bananas at 15 per cent. April 29. A cen t ral rate of R ls 75.75 = US$1 was established. No change in the effec t ive pa r i ty relation- ship for the U. S. do l lar was involved. September 6 (Sep tember 7, local t im e ). The par value was changed f rom 0.0117316 gram of fine gold to 0.0108055 gram of fine gold per I ran ian r ia l. The central rate of Rls 75.75 = US$1 was discontinued, but the e f fec t ive pa r i ty relationship for the U. S. dollar rema ined unchanged. September 16. Au thor ized banks were permitted to sell up to US$2,000 a person to I ran ian nationals trav- e l ing abroad, for medical expenses. The regulation lim- i t ing the sale of t ravel exchange to US$500 per pass- port was f o rm a l ly abolished, and the f u ll travel alloca- tion could now be t ak en up for each member of a f am i ly t rave l ing on a jo int passport; this confirmed a practice a l ready in effect for some time. The amount of fo re ign cu r rency that depar t ing foreign travelers could purchase w i th rials was doubled to US$100. November. New regu la t ions regard ing imports and exports of gold and silver were issued. December 1. The 1963 t rade agreement w i th the EEC was renewed for ano ther year. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Iraqi D in ar or ID 0.357143 = SDR 1, co r respond ing to ID 1 = US$3.04000, and I raq ava i ls itself of wider margins. Transac t ions in the off ic ial m a rk et are carried out in any of the listed cu r renc ies l or in I raqi d ina rs th rough non re s ident accoun ts in Iraq. The Cen t ral Bank of Iraq quotes o f f ic ial rates for the listed cur- rencies for its t ran sac t ions w i th au tho r ized dealers. The Bank ma in ta ins a fixed buy ing rate of ID 1 = US$2.9868 for the U. S. do l la r, which is the in ter- vention cu r rency. Administration of Control The Board of Adm in i s t ra t ion of the Cen t ral Bank of Iraq is en t ru s ted w i th all powers and responsibilities in connection w i th exchange con t ro l; it has delegated this au tho r i ty to the Foreign Exchange Committee (headed by the Governor of the Central Bank, his Deputy, or a member specified in advance by the Board of A dm i n i s t r a t i o n ), to the Department of For- eign Exchange of the Cen tral Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange t ransac t ions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Adm in is t ra t ion. Import and export policy are de term ined by the Counc il for the Regula- tion of Trade. The Directorate-General of Economics (Gove rnment and Pr iva te Import Section) in the Minis- try of Economy, the General Organization for Trade, the General Depar tment for Indus t r ial Promotion in the Ministry of Indus t ry, and the Indus t r ial Organization in the M in is t ry of Indu s t ry are the pr inc ipal licensing authorities for impor ts and exports, but import licenses are also issued by certain other public organizations and government depar tmen ts. A foreign exchange budget, including an import program, is established annua l ly, and foreign exchange allocations under the import program are supervised by the Import Program Com- mittee. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed cur- rencies l or, under the bilateral payments agreements w i th ma in land Ch ina, Egypt, and Yugoslavia, in dinars or pounds sterling through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. do l lar was being deva lued, Iraq ma in ta ined the par v a lue of its cu r r en cy in te rms of gold. 1 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche m a rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian l i re, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control au thor i t ies. Trans- ac t ions pe rm i t ted in convertible currencies may alter- n a t iv e ly be settled in Iraqi d ina rs th rough nonresident accounts. Nonres ident accounts are divided into ordi- na ry nonresident accounts, which arise f rom transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, wh ich arise from transac t ions in respect of cap i tal t ran s fe r s. Fu r the rmo re, Iraq nationals who have been work ing abroad for at least a year or who become residents a f ter hav ing been nonresidents may open accounts in foreign currencies w i th banks in Iraq and credit these w i th up to 50 per cent of their foreign sav- ings. Balances in such accoun ts may be used for a variety of purposes, in c lud ing imports for the holder's personal use, impor ts of certain capital goods, or meet- ing expend i tu re abroad for t rave l, medical trea tmen t, and study purposes; paymen ts f rom these accounts up to the equ iva lent of ID 500 a year do not require Central Bank approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and all imports from Hong Kong other than certain essential goods are prohibited. Imports of some 118 commodities are prohibited f rom all sources. There is also a list of about 93 commodities whose import is sus- pended. Impo r ts of some 320 items, including ju te, sugar, tea, edible olive oil, certain medical supplies, machine tools, and automobiles, are a government monopoly. All private imports except those of the private sector oil companies require licenses, virtually all of which are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of consumer goods generally are more heavily restricted than those of raw materials and equipment for industrial use. Some commodities may be imported only by government agencies or state trad ing companies; other commodities may also be imported by registered private importers or by con- tractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraq Government. A tax is levied on the amount of the import license at the following rates: % per mill for producer goods, 1 per mill for consumer goods, and, in addition, up to 15 per cent on any supplementary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of % per cent is levied on imports of capital goods and a tax of 1 per cent on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent of the appli- cable customs duty. Licensed dealers make exchange available upon pres- entation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Payments for Invisibles With the exception of certain payments from for- eign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above), all payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for edu- cational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insur- ance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for fam i ly maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resi- dent in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to refer to the exchange control authorities for amounts exceeding this limit. Although tourist travel at present is prohibited, there is a basic travel allowance of ID 100 a calendar year for each person 18 years of age or over, of ID 50 for persons between 5 and 18 years of age, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger. Tourist travel exchange additional to the basic allowances is subject to ad hoc approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, in addition to 50 per cent of the domestic currency equivalent of the foreign exchange allocated, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in travelers checks. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arabian riyals (ID 75 for persons over 5 and under 18 and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younge r ). Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an author- ized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is refunded upon the traveler's re turn to Iraq, subject to the fu l f i l lment of certain formalities. Exempt from the deposit requirement are officials of government, semi- government, and public utility departments; students traveling for s tudy purposes; pensioners; foreigners, except non-Iraqi wives of Iraq nationals; and persons leaving on a pilgrimage. On leaving the coun t ry, Iraq nationals must pay an exit tax of ID 20, except when traveling to Gulf countries or on an official mission the entire expense of which is borne by the Government. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Hong Kong, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Economy has au thor i ty to prohibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. The Coun- cil for the Regu la t ion of Trade may also prohibit the export of certain commodities. All other exports are licensed free ly. Exporters must generally under take to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and 244 to surrender them. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Gulf area (excluding Iran) and India are exempt from these requirements when the amount does not exceed ID 600. Some com- modities may be exported on a compensation (bar ter) basis. This system links the export of certain "new" exports to the import of prohibited items. Exports of certain goods are subsidized through an Export Subsidy Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israel cu r r en cy ), in un l im i ted amoun ts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South Africa, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the off ic ial rate, and repatriation to the coun try of origin is permitted. With minor exceptions, foreign companies starting operations in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. The transfer of profits net of income tax f rom fore ign inves tmen ts is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trading companies, and to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also app ly to prof i ts on capital resulting f rom the manda to ry re inves tment of profits in excess of the t ran s fe rab le percentages. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these percentage limi- tations and entitled to preferential treatment in several other respects; interest paymen ts are not subject to any ceilings. All t rans fe rs of capital abroad by residents, whe ther Iraqis or fore igners, require exchange control approva l; such t ran s fe rs are severely restricted. Special facilities allow Arab investors to br ing in convertible currency f ree ly th rough a licensed dealer for specified investment purposes; such capital and any net profits may be t ran s fe r red abroad in convertible currency. Similar fac i l i t ies permit Iraq na t iona ls to bring in con- vertible currency through a licensed dealer and deposit the f u n ds in foreign cu r rency accounts, balances in which are free ly t rans fe rab le abroad. Under the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 164 of 1964), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted partial or total exemption dur ing the first five years of profitable operation from income tax on the ir prof i ts up to 10 per cent of paid-up capital, provided that (1) the principal work of the enterprise is done by machine; (2) all ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution workers and employees other than essential technicians or experts are Iraq citizens or Arabs; (3) the value of machinery and tools required, excluding power- generating plants, exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) foreign non-Arab participation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. Similar exemptions for profits up to 5 per cent of paid-up capital are granted during the second five-year period of operation. The specified enterprises are those whose main purpose is to process raw mate- rials into semimanufactured or finished products or to process sem imanufac tured products into finished prod- ucts, including assembly. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign- owned firms except banks 2 must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraq nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Since mid-1961, the Rafidain Bank has held a monopoly over the import and domestic distribution of gold needed for industrial purposes; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths only, under a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely bring gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a foreign exchange form. 2 All commercial banks and insurance companies were nationalized on July 14, 1964. IRAQ Changes during 1972 March 8. Special transfer privileges were extended to private Arab investors abroad who would participate in the development of the Iraqi tourist industry. April I. The exchange tax levied on certain foreign exchange granted to persons leaving Iraq or residing abroad was abolished. The advance deposit requirement for travel exchange was maintained. April I. The import program for 1972/73 came into effect. It made provision for imports valued at ID 251 million (excluding imports with "own exchange" or financed by certain foreign loan s ). Additional com- modities were reserved for import by public sector agencies. June I. The properties of a major foreign-owned petroleum company were nationalized. June 12. The import program was reduced from ID 251 million to ID 200.3 million. In October it was increased to ID 210.8 million. June 13. Tourist travel by residents of Iraqi nation- ality was prohibited, and travel for official or health reasons was restricted. June 24. Following the floating of sterling, the Central Bank suspended foreign exchange quotations. Previously, a fixed buy ing rate for sterling of ID 1 = £ stg. 1.166 was maintained. Quotations were resumed on July 3. July 3. The dinar was repegged f rom sterling to the U. S. dollar. The par value of the dinar in terms of gold was maintained unchanged, and the parity rela- tionship for the U. S. dollar remained at ID 1 = US$3.0400. The U .S. dollar replaced sterling as the intervention currency. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELANDl Exchange Rate System * The par v a l ue is 2 .13281 g rams of fine gold per I r i sh Pound, co r re spond ing to £ Ir 0.416667 = SDR 1 or £ Ir 1 = US$2.60571. Since J u ne 23, 1972, however, the au tho r i t i es have not ma in ta ined the exchange rate of the I r i sh pound w i th in prescribed marg ins, and there- fore all t ransac t ions, except those in s te r l ing or cu r r en- cies m a i n t a i n i ng a f ixed r e l a t ion sh ip w i th s ter l ing, take place at a f l u c t u a t i ng exchange ra te. T ransac t ions in s te r l ing take place at pa r i ty. As of J a n u a ry 1, 1973, the Central Bank's b u y i ng and se l l ing ra tes for the U. S. do l lar were US$2.3480 and US$2.3450 per I r i sh pound. Cer ta in cap i tal t r an s a c t ions i n v o l v i ng inve s tment cu r- rency (see section on Cap i ta l, below) take p lace at d i f- ferent effec t ive rates. Forward t ran sac t ions between authorized banks and the ir customers must have an und e r ly ing commercial t ransac t ion. On Feb rua ry 15, 1961, I re land fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Cen tral Bank. Much of the au tho r i ty for app rov ing no rmal paymen ts is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Depa r tment of Indu s t ry and Commerce if the goods are of an indu s t r ial na ture, or by the Department of Ag r icu l tu re and Fisheries if the goods are agricul- tural in character. Impo rt l icens ing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are adm in is te red by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Ireland is a member of the Sterling Area and con- tinues to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Irish exchange control regu la t ions d i s t ingu i sh between the Scheduled Terri- tories, consisting of Ire land, the United K ingdom ( inc lud ing the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man), and Gibraltar; the External Account Area; and Rho- desia. Payments to and f rom other Scheduled Terri- tories may be made freely in Irish pounds or pounds sterling; certain insu rance paymen ts between Scheduled Territories, however, may be made in fore ign curren- cies. 2 Authorized payments to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling th rough an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian cur- * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the Irish pound continued to float. 1 In view of changes th at took place on Janua ry 1, 1973 (see note at the end of this s u r v e y ), this su rvey presents the position on that date. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other Scheduled Territory. than those of a 246 rency. The proceeds of expo r ts to coun tr ies outside the Schedu led Terr i tor ies o ther than Rhodesia must be received in I r ish pounds or s te r l ing th rough an Ex ternal Account or in any fo re ign cu r r en cy other t h an Rho- des ian c u r r e n c y. The proceeds of p e rm i t t ed exports to Rhodes ia mu st be received in fo re ign cu r r en cy other than Rhodes ian cu r r en cy; p aym en ts to Rhodesia a re sub ject to special regu la t ion s. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons res ident in the Scheduled Terri- tories are treated as res ident accoun ts. Accoun ts of per- sons res ident in coun t r i es ou ts ide the Scheduled Terri- tories are treated as nonresident accoun ts and, w i th the exception of Rhodes ian Accoun ts, are designated Exter- nal Accounts. These may be credited w i th paymen ts au thor ized for t r a n s f er to coun t r ies outside the Sched- u led Territories other than Rhodes ia, w i th t ran s fe rs f r om other Ex te rnal Accoun ts in Ir ish pounds or in sterling, and w i th the proceeds in Irish pounds of any foreign cu r r en cy o ther th an Rhodes ian cu r rency sold by a resident of a c o u n t ry ou ts ide the Scheduled Terri- tories to an au thor ized bank in I re land. Balances on these accounts may be t rans fe r red f ree ly to other Exter- nal Accoun ts in I r ish pounds or in s ter l ing, used for paymen ts to res iden ts of the Scheduled Territories, or converted th rough an au thor ized b ank in I r e l and in to any fore ign cu r rency o ther than Rhodesian currency. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rho- desia are des igna ted Rhodes ian Accoun ts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, requ ire the prior approval of the Cen tral Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia require a special license. With this exception, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of admin- istrative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective and other nonbalance of paymen ts purposes, imports of certain commodities are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions, which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis.3 Indi- vidual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quan t i ty of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain textiles and yarns originating in any of 16 specified countries or territories.4 All other impo r ts are free of quantitative restriction. Under the other type of control, 3 Most of the remaining quotas are being gradua l ly increased in accordance w i th EEC comm i tmen ts and w i th an obligation in the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Ag reemen t; the en la rgemen ts to date have been made on a global basis, a l though the obligations under the latter agreement relate only to goods or ig ina t ing in the United K ingdom. 4 Bulgaria, mainland China, Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hong Kong, Hung a ry, Ind ia, J ap an, Macao, Ma- laysia, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prior permission of the Cen tral Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods o r ig ina t ing outside the Scheduled Territories, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than n ine months a f ter the date of the order. For pe rm i t ted imports, app rop r ia te exchange or per- mission to credit Irish pounds or s te r l ing to an Ex ternal Account is g ran ted au toma t ica l ly. Exchange control fo rms a re required for impo rt paymen ts exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Scheduled Territories are not sub- ject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Scheduled Territories. Paymen ts to residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require app rova l. App roval to make payments for most invisi- bles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tour ist travel outside the Scheduled Territories (other than to Rhodes ia) there is a basic allowance for residents of the State of £250 a person for each trip. For business t rave l, up to £1,500, at a ra te of < £ Ir 20 a day, is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other pur- poses. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unau thor ized export of capital is involved. Not more than £250 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the fo rm of currency notes. Persons traveling to destinations outside the United Kingdom (other than to Rhodesia) may also take with them up to £25 in Scheduled Territory cur- rency notes. Travelers who are resident outside the Scheduled Territories (other than Rhodesia) may take with them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. There is a special restriction on the export of a number of items to Rhodesia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Scheduled Territories must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds £100. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceed- ing £2,000 to countries outside the Scheduled Terri- tories. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return IRELAND f rom a t r ip abroad may be retained for three months f rom the da te he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent t r ip abroad. There are no l im i ta t ions on the impo rt of Ir ish or fo re ign bankno tes. Capital Inwa rd and ou twa rd movements of capital between I re land and other Scheduled Territories are not subject to exchange control. Exchange control approval is required for all t ran s fe rs of capital to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Applications for transfer of capital at the official ma rket rate of exchange by resi- dents of the State em ig ra t ing to countries of the Over- seas Sterling Area that on June 23, 1972 ceased to be Scheduled Territories are approved up to a limit of £20,000 a f am i l y. Where the total value of an emi- grant's assets exceeds £20,000, the t rans fer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years f rom the em igran t's redesignation as a nonresident, i.e., f rom the date of depa r tu re f rom Ireland. The corre- sponding allocation for persons em igra t ing to other Ex ternal Account Area countries (except Rhodesia) is £5,000 a fam i ly unit. A f ter the four-year period, the assets are to be treated in the same way as those of non-Scheduled Territory residents who have never been resident in Ireland. However, permission is given at any time a f ter redesignation for the restricted funds to be transferred outside the Scheduled Territories through the investment currency market (see below) or invested in sterling securities.5 For Irish residents taking up employment and residence in an EEC country other than the United Kingdom, applications are considered to t rans fer Irish or U. K. assets to their new country of residence in excess of £Ir 5,000; the additional facilities are authorized at the official rate of exchange if they are shown to be appropriate to ensure the applicant's freedom to take up employment in the country con- cerned. Applications for the transfer of resident-owned capital for purposes other than emigration are con- sidered on their merits, but there are special facilities for residents taking up employment in EEC countries other than the United Kingdom and for direct invest- ment in such countries. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but net inflows into the banks may be subject to guidelines set annua l ly by the Central Bank, purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents of the Scheduled Terri- tories require exchange control approval, and the pur- chase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in most cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. However, invest- ment currency, i.e., the foreign currency proceeds from the sale ma in ly of foreign currency securities 6 sold out- 5 Securities solely payable in Irish pounds or pounds sterling. 6 Foreign currency securities are all securities expressed in the currency of a country outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesian currency. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND side the Scheduled Territories may be fu l ly reinvested in foreign currency securities, provided that the securi- ties sold were held prior to April 7, 1965, or acquired by "switches" f rom securities so held, and that the investment is carried out within six months from the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solici- tor. Where the securities sold were purchased with investment currency on or a f ter April 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate, except in the case of foreign currency securities payable in the currency of an Overseas Sterling Area coun try that on June 23, 1972 ceased to be a Scheduled Territory. Investment currency may be invested temporarily in foreign currency certificates of deposit and similar paper with up to six months to run to final ma tur i ty, without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on ma tur i ty or resale, provided that the limit of six months for the holding of investment currency is not exceeded. In certain cases, the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Scheduled Territories (but not situated in a member coun try of the EEC) are regarded as investment currency and are eligible for investment in foreign currency securities, provided that 25 per cent of such proceeds is surrendered at the official rate. The entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale outside the Scheduled Territories of property for personal use owned by residents are normally regarded as investment currency where the whole of the property is sold; in other cases the 25 per cent requirement is applied. Residents may obtain, subject to individual permission, reasonable amounts of investment currency to purchase from non-Scheduled Territory residents property out- side the Scheduled Territories for personal use; pay- ments for attendant expenses and improvements must also be made with investment currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a family. Purchases f rom residents of the Scheduled Territories must be settled in sterling. Transactions in securities are con- trolled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Scheduled Territories. Direct investment outside the Scheduled Territories requires prior approval and, depending on the merits of the project, may be financed with investment currency, with official exchange, or by borrowing foreign currency. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments in EEC countries other than the United Kingdom, subject to a limit of <£ Ir 250,000 a project a year, and applications to trans- fer larger amoun ts at the official exchange rate are considered on their merits. Dealings in Irish registered securities are permitted freely between residents of the Scheduled Territories. Specific approval is required for all dealings by Irish residents in securities payable in Rhodesian currency. Remittances of cash gifts to Over- seas Sterling Area countries that on June 23, 1972 ceased to be Scheduled Territories are normally per- mitted up to <£ Ir 1,000 a donor a calendar year; the 248 corresponding limit for other External Account Area countries is <£Ir 250 a donor a year. Authorized banks may freely accept deposits in for- eign currency from nonresidents of the Scheduled Ter- ritories and lend such deposits on to other nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories. Application must be made to the Central Bank for nonbank private sector borrow- ing from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories; such applications are considered on their merits and on the benefit likely to accrue to the economy. Public sector borrowing outside the Scheduled Territories is under- taken following consultation with the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents of the Sched- uled Territories is not normally permitted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of non-Scheduled Territories diplo- matic and consular missions in Ireland, and except that banks may freely make available loan and overdraft facilities in Irish pounds or sterling to residents of Over- seas Sterling Area countries that on June 23, 1972 ceased to be Scheduled Territories, provided the under- lying transaction is a trade transaction or one associated with the movement of goods. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. Although there are no import restrictions, residents require exchange control permission to purchase gold coins or bullion abroad; permission is normally given to numismatists for the purchase of gold coins. Exchange control permission also is required for the export of gold coins and bullion; this is not normally granted except to industrial users. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1972 January 1. A system of generalized tariff preferences came into force for specified goods originating in most developing countries. January 22. Negotiations for accession to the EEC were concluded. It was agreed that Ireland could defer, in accordance with the following arrangements, the liberalization of capital movements provided for in EEC Directives. 1. Ireland could, for a period of two years after accession to the EEC, defer the liberalization of direct investments in member states of the EEC by persons resident in Ireland and the liberalization of the liquida- tion of direct investments in member states by persons resident in Ireland. It was agreed, however, that Ireland would endeavor to take appropriate measures to pro- ceed from the date of accession to a substantial relaxa- tion in the rules concerning outward direct investment. 2. Not later than two and a half years after acces- sion, Ireland would liberalize the following capital ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution movements of a personal na ture: the transfer of capital belonging to persons resident in Ireland who are emi- grating (other than transfers connected with the free- dom of movement of workers, which would be liberal- ized from the date of accession); gifts, endowments, and dowries; succession duties; and real estate invest- ments other than those connected with the freedom of movement for workers, which would be liberalized from the date of accession. 3. Ireland could, for a period of five years af ter accession, defer the liberalization of the portfolio invest- ment operations set out in List B annexed to the EEC Council Directives of May 11, 1960 and December 18, 1962, when carried out by persons resident in Ireland. May 1. The exchange rate margins for the currencies of EEC countries were narrowed. Similar action was taken by the United Kingdom. The Irish pound remained at par with sterling without any margin. Ire- land's participation in the EEC arrangements was suspended on June 23, when sterling and the Irish pound were floated. June 2. Monetary policy guidelines to the banking system for the current fiscal year were issued, retro- active to April 18, 1972. In contrast to previous years, quantitative guidelines for individuals, banks, or groups of banks were not proposed. The guidelines for 1971/72 had suggested that no net inflow of capital into the banks from outside Ireland should occur. (On Feb- ruary 6, 1973 the Central Bank proposed that at least 50 per cent of capital inflows after Janua ry 16, 1973 be deposited with it on accounts which would not be included in the calculation of primary liquidity ratios. Banks were asked to bring about no net capital inf low over and above the Janua ry 16 position.) June 23. The Minister of Finance announced that the Irish pound would float in line with sterling and that the parity relationship between the Irish pound and the pound sterling would be maintained. The Irish foreign exchange market was closed. It reopened on June 27. June 23. The Exchange Control Regulations, 1972 came into operation. In line with similar measures adopted by the United Kingdom, exchange control was introduced between Ireland and the other countries of the Sterling Area, except the United Kingdom (includ- ing the Channel Islands and the Isle of M a n ). All Ster- ling Area countries, except Ireland, the United King- dom, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man, ceased to be Scheduled Territories under Ireland's Exchange Control Acts, 1954 to 1970. For exchange control pur- poses, countries were now classified as the Scheduled Territories, the External Account Area, and Rhodesia. The Irish pound accounts held by residents of the coun- tries that ceased to be Scheduled Territories were redes- ignated External Accounts. The currency of each of these countries became a foreign currency for exchange control purposes, and securities payable in such cur- rencies became foreign currency securities. All current IRELAND instructions regarding transactions involving nonresidents would now also apply to residents of the excluded countries. The extension of exchange control to the Overseas Sterling Area did not involve the introduction of restrictions on current payments to the countries concerned, but restrictions were introduced on certain capital transfers and capital transactions. June 29. Banks were informed in detail of the exchange control arrangements which would henceforth apply to the countries excluded on June 23 from the list of Scheduled Territories, i.e., the Overseas Sterling Area. The new regulations differed in various respects f rom those applying at the time to other countries in the External Account Area. The securities of the former Scheduled Territories now were considered foreign currency securities, and their purchase required the use of investment currency, but the "25 per cent require- ment" was not applicable when they were sold. Sterling securities were redefined as securities payable solely in the currencies of Ireland or the United Kingdom. Per- mission was required to make direct investments in the countries concerned, but permission would normally be given for funds to be transferred, without limit, at the official market rate of exchange, provided that the investment was not of a portfolio nature and that the finance required was to be employed wholly within fo rmer Scheduled Territories. Approval also became necessary for inward direct investments by residents of such countries; the normal rules relating to such invest- ments by nonresidents would apply. Irish pound or sterling loans and overdrafts to bodies corporate and branches resident in Ireland or the United Kingdom that are controlled by residents of the former Scheduled Territories became subject to the provisions of Sec- tion 24 of the Exchange Control Act, 1954 relating to lending. Banks could, however, continue to make avail- able to such companies, without reference to Exchange Control, facilities already appearing on their books as at June 23, 1972. As regards new or increased facilities, banks would normally be allowed to lend to Irish com- panies controlled by residents of former Scheduled Territories all the finance they required for their opera- tions in Ireland; similar lending facilities could normally be granted to U. K. companies of the same status. Borrowing by Irish residents f rom residents of the former Scheduled Territories became subject to Sec- tion 4 ( i) of the Exchange Control Act and henceforth required a general or specific permission. Banks could now make available new loan and ove rd ra ft facilities in Irish pounds or sterling to residents of former Sched- uled Territories only where the underlying transaction was a trad ing one or associated with the movement of goods. Export proceeds accruing in the currencies of former Scheduled Territories became subject to sur- render, and payments for imports f rom such countries had to be made in accordance with exchange control requirements. Residents holding accounts in the cur- rencies of fo rmer Scheduled Territories were obliged to 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND close such accounts and to o f fer balances thereon for sale at the official market rate to an authorized dealer, unless otherwise permitted by the Central Bank. Pur- chases and sales of land and proper ty for private use located in fo rmer Scheduled Territories now had to be settled with investment currency. Residents em igra t ing to fo rm er Scheduled Territories would no rma l ly be allowed to t r an s f er on depa r tu re to their new coun try of residence up to £ Ir 20,000 a f am i ly un it from their Irish and other Sterling Area assets, together with any foreign currency securities they he ld; the existing capital allowance of <£ Ir 5,000 continued to apply to emigrants to other countries in the External Account Area. The basic travel allowances for travel outside the Sterling Area became applicable also to travel to fo rm er Sched- uled Territories. Insurers in Ireland could no longer issue to Irish residents or to other residents of the Sterling Area annuities and l ife and endowment policies expressed in currencies of former Scheduled Territories; such annuities and policies expressed in Irish pounds or sterling and owned by residents of Ireland could no longer, except with prior permission, be switched into a currency of, or assigned to a person resident in, a former Scheduled Territory. Cash gifts to residents of such countries would norma l ly be permitted up to £Ir 1,000 a donor a calendar year; for other External Account Area countries, the existing l im it of £Jr250 a donor a calendar year remained. Banks could author- ize payments to persons resident in former Scheduled Territories who are beneficiaries under estates and intestacies of deceased Irish residents, subject to the same conditions applying to distributions to beneficiaries resident in other External Account Area countries; applications, however, relating to estates in Ireland of persons who died resident in a former Scheduled Ter- ritory, had to be referred to Exchange Control. Resi- dents henceforth required exchange control permission to set up, or add to, a trust, or to make a settlement, in favor of residents of former Scheduled Territories. July 1. The seventh annual reduction in protective duties on imports f rom the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Agreement came in to effect. November 1. A value-added tax was in troduced. NOTE. —The following changes took place on Janu- ary 1, 1973. January 1. Following a similar measure taken by the United Kingdom, it was announced that arrangements were being made under which Gibraltar would be re- designated a Scheduled Territory under Ireland's exchange control regulations. January 1. Ireland became a member of the EEC. The Anglo-Irish Free Trade Agreement remained in force. January L Certain measures to relax exchange con- trols between Ire land and member countries of the EEC other than the United Kingdom fo rma l ly came into effec t. These re laxa t ions had been in operation admin- istratively for some mon ths and were b road ly in line w i th s im i lar measures adopted by the United Kingdom. 1. Exchange control permission was still required for direct investments in the countries concerned. The use of official exchange wou ld be allowed, however, for all new inves tmen ts, subject to a l im it of c£Ir 250,000 a project a year, and applications to transfer larger amoun ts at the official rate of exchange would be considered on their merits. Since the relaxation would not apply retrospectively, the early repayment of for- eign currency borrow ing already under taken and applied to existing projects wou ld not be permitted. The for- eign currency realized on a sale or liquidation of direct investments in the countries concerned, whenever made, would no longer no rma l ly be eligible for sale in the investment currency market. Direct investments were defined as those where the Irish investing company par- ticipates in the management or operation of a project either d irec t ly or th rough the in termed iary of a com- pany or branch spec ia l ly established in an EEC country for the purpose. 2. Applications would be considered from residents of Ireland who intended to take up employment in an EEC coun try, other than the United Kingdom, and who wished to be regarded as resident in their new country of employment, to t ran s fer Irish or U. K. assets to their new country of residence in excess of the previous limit of <£ Ir 5,000. The additional facilities requested would be authorized at the official rate of exchange if they were shown to be appropriate to ensure the applicant's freedom to take up employment in the country con- cerned. 3. Irish residents taking up temporary employment in EEC countries would, during the period of employment, still be regarded as Irish residents for exchange control purposes. The transfer of funds would be approved to meet such items as settling-in expenses, unforeseen cur- rent expenditure, and the cost of accommodation; authorities given would be limited to amounts which were shown to be appropriate to ensure the applicant's freedom to continue or take up employment in the country concerned. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exchange Rate System * The par v a lue is 0.194884 gram of fine gold per Israel Pound, co r respond ing to I £4.56 = SDR 1 or I£4 .20 = US$1, and Israel avails itself of wider mar- gins. The Bank of Israel's off ic ial b u y i ng and selling rates for the U. S. do l lar on December 31, 1972 were I£4.2000 and I£4.2030, respectively. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the M in is try of Finance, under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange and in cooperation with other gov- ernment agencies and is carried out th rough authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with countries with which pay- ments agreements are in force l are usua l ly made in U. S. dollars as an accoun t ing un i t. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on foreign cur- rency accounts or on local currency accounts. The principal type of nonresident foreign currency account is the PATACH account. The holder may freely effect transfers f rom his fore ign currency account. He may also convert funds held in the account into local cur- rency at the official rate of exchange. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: ( 1) Registered Accounts —for payments to and holdings of fo re ign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies and for nontransferable holdings of former residents —may be established only with special approval. Funds acquired from the sale of real estate and awaiting repatriation must also be held in Regis- tered Accounts. Aviation, shipping, and insurance com- panies may free ly convert at the official rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to local requirements; film companies may do so under individual arrangements made with each company. Registered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israeli securities, for purchase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I£150 a d a y2 for the account holder and for each member of his * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Israel with effect f rom February 14, 1973 established a central rate of I£4.20 = US$1 and continued to avail itself of wider margins. 1 Brazil, Bulgaria, and Portugal. 2 Increased to I £250 a day with effect f rom February 8, 1973. fam i ly, for rem i t tances of up to I£5,000 a y e a r3 in support of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the se t t lement of taxes payab le in Israel by the owner of the account, and for dona t ions to pub l ic and charitable institutions. Funds representing the sales proceeds of certain real estate become t r an s f e r ab le a f t er five years, in equal ins ta l lmen ts over a five-year period. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be transferred. (2) Other nonres ident accounts in local cu r rency may be used to hold funds derived f rom fo rmer investments that are eligible for t r an s f er at the official exchange rate. Balances may be t ran s fe r red between nonresidents. The accounts may be l iqu ida ted at any time by the purchase of fore ign exchange at the official rate; such foreign exchange may free ly be t rans fe r red abroad or credited to a PATACH accoun t. Otherwise, funds in these accounts may be used w i th in Israel, and no limit is placed on the amount that may be withdrawn. Israeli citizens who are temporar i ly l iv ing and earn- ing abroad may ma in ta in foreign currency in temporary PAMAZ accounts in Israel. Balances in such accounts may be freely used abroad when the holder is abroad; when he is in Israel he may only convert these funds into local currency at the official exchange rate. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may ma in ta in foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either PAZAK accounts, which may be held by all recipients of for- eign exchange other than those to whom exchange has been allocated from domestic sources, or TAMAM accounts, which may be held by recipients of restitution payments and disability pensions. PAZAK accounts are demand or time deposit ac- counts denominated in convertible currencies. All for- eign exchange receipts, except those derived from exchange allocations by the Ministry of Finance but including export proceeds, may be placed in PAZAK accounts. Account holders may retain funds in this manner or may exchange them into local currency. As an inducement to export, account holders may use for- eign exchange balances in PAZAK accounts to make any authorized foreign payments. Balances in PAZAK accounts are not negotiable between residents, but PAZAK accounts may be registered in the names of members of the immediate fam i ly of the account holder. TAMAM accounts are demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies. One third of con- vertible exchange receipts derived f rom personal resti- tution payments and f rom pensions, etc., of disabled soldiers who served during World War II may be cred- ited to TAMAM accounts. The permitted uses of TAMAM accounts include the following: ( 1) the pur- 3 Increased to I£ 15,000 a year with effect from February 8, 1973. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL chase through the medium of the authorized bank hold- ing the account of securities denominated in convertible fore ign currency that are registered on a stock exchange in specified fore ign countries; (2) payment of pre- miums on existing l i fe insurance policies denominated in fore ign cu r rency; ( 3) payment of expenses in con- nection w i th t ravel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation of the equivalent of US$450 a tr ip, provided that not more than the equ iva lent of US$ 1,200 a year 4 is drawn by the account holder and for each member of his fam i ly; and (4) payment of legal expenses resu l t ing f rom restitution claims. NATAD accounts are transfer accounts in foreign exchange that are used ma in ly for transactions in for- eign securities. Holders of TAMAM accounts may purchase abroad foreign securities denominated in con- vertible foreign currency and registered on a stock exchange in specified foreign countries. Foreign securities thus acquired may be traded free ly between residents, th rough the in t e rm ed i a ry of the authorized bank that is the depository, against payment either with NATAD or TAMAM funds or in Israel pounds. If the original buyer resells securities bought w i th TAMAM account f u n ds for fo re ign cu r rency he may deposit the proceeds in TAMAM accounts. Residents who are not holders of TAMAM accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds f rom the sale of foreign securities in NATAD accounts. Balances in NATAD accounts may be used to purchase f u r t h er fore ign securities but are not negotiable between residents. If foreign securi- ties are sold between residents against Israel pounds, the conversion fac tor used to establish their domestic currency value is the so-called NATAD rate. On December 31, 1972, it stood at I £4 .22 per U. S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited f rom all sources and all imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. All com- modities whose impo r ta t ion is not liberalized are listed in a Negative List. Impor ts of goods listed in the Free Impo rt Order are f ree of all licensing and adm in is tra- tive or quan t i ta t ive restrictions. All other imports are subject to licensing. For commodities on the Automatic Approval List, licenses are issued au toma t ica l ly upon application. A ll o ther perm iss ib le impor ts constitute the Restricted List. All ind iv idual impo rt licenses must be countersigned by the Depa r tment of Foreign Exchange Control of the M in i s t ry of Finance. The cu r rency and method of payment are prescribed in each license; if a conver t ib le cu r rency is prescribed, payment may be made in any conve r t ib le cu r rency. Six basic food prod- ucts ( f ro z en mea t, m i lk powder, whea t, oilseeds, edible fats, and sug a r) are imported exclusively by or for account of the Gove rnment of Israel. 4 Increased to US$1,800 a year with e f fect f rom March 23, 1973. 252 Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted auto- matically. If payment is to be made by documentary credit, the foreign currency required may be purchased at the time of opening the credit; f u n ds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel un t il t rans fer is made. Licenses are not issued for imports of goods on con- signment unless the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$250,000 within three months and under takes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods in local cu r rency w i th the Bank of Israel through an authorized bank. Each license is valid only for a single commodity, and an importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for all imports effected under foreign credits. Importers are required to deposit with the customs, at the t ime of pay ing the import duty and for a period of six months, 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports.5 Exempt are commodities subject to customs duty at a rate of less than 50 per cent, imports by or for the Governmen t, imm igran ts' personal effects, gifts, and imports on which the deposit wou ld amount to less than I £500. The funds are kept on deposit in the Bank of Israel for six mon ths and interest of 6 per cent a year is received by the impor ter. V i r tu a l ly all imports are sub ject to an import surcharge of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue. The main exemptions are for fue ls, cer- ta in basic foods tu f fs, and uncut diamonds. A purchase tax is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods, other than capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Most paymen ts abroad for invisibles require individ- ual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equiva- lent to US$10-250, which is obtainable on demand, for certain purposes such as the purchase of books, mem- bership dues, and registration in a university. For tour- ist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equiv- a lent to US$450 a t r av e l er for each jou rney (US$225 for ch i ld ren und er 1 2 ); em igran ts a re not eligible for this a l lowance. Not more than I £100 in Israel bank- notes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are pe rm i t ted to repurchase through authorized dealers fore ign currency up to US$30. Resi- dents t rave l ing abroad must pay a travel tax; for travel by sea, the tax is I £550 p lus 10 per cent of the price of the ticket, and for travel by air, I £595 plus 10 per cent of the price of the ticket. Travelers to specified countries are exempted f rom the travel tax; these in c lude Cyp rus, Ethiopia, and Roman ia. Exporters doing more than US$ 100,000 of export business a year are exempt f rom travel tax on business trips. Immi- •"'The rate of deposit was reduced to 20 per cent on Janua ry 1, 1973. Goods w i th a c.i.f. v a lue of up to I£5,000 became exempt f r om the deposit r equ i r em en t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution grants and their families are exempt from travel tax for three years from the date of immigration or of entry as temporary residents. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports do not require licenses if paid for in free ly convertible currencies. For some commodities, however, export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry maintains a check on export transactions with a low value-added content which are made with bilateral partners; this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held in a PAZAK account. Exports of most commodities are eligible for incen t ive payments based on value added and designed to rebate estimated in te rnal indirect taxes and the import surcharge. At the end of 1972, the pay- ment for diamonds was about 50 agorot per US$1 equivalent, and for other commodities the payment ranged f rom 95 to 99 agorot per US$1 equivalent, with the higher rates applicable to commodities with a higher proportion of domestic va lue added. For inputs d irec t ly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebate of customs duties, wha rf charges, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. A l te rna t ive ly, they may be kept in for- eign exchange on PAZAK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged in to Israel currency at any time or used to make au thor ized paymen ts. Any resident is f ree to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for services and commodities other than commerc ial exports, securities, and real estate; such receipts must be surrendered w i th in a few days. One th ird of the fo re ign exchange received by resi- dents of Israel as res t i tu t ion paymen ts, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be retained in TAMAM accounts. For ten years a f t er en te r ing Israel, new imm igran ts are exempt f rom su r rende r ing the ir fore ign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these currencies w i th authorized banks in Israel or w i th banks abroad. Tourists v is i t ing Israel are expected to bring with them the amoun ts of fo re ign currency that they will need d u r i ng the ir stay. Not more than I<£100 in Israel bankno tes may be brought in by travelers. Tourists and others v is i t ing Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Non res ident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I £150 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of the ir fam i l ies ," if they are holders of other nonres ident local currency accounts, they may draw on them without limit. 6 See also footnote 2. ISRAEL Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital and belonging to a resident has to be surrendered at the official rate or held in a PAZAK account. Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of August 16, 1959, which, inter alia, permits a nonresident who has made an "approved" investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Repay- ment and amortization of capital may also be trans- ferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be withdrawn in five equal installments; if the investment has been kept for more than five years, it may be with- drawn immediately. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of production that fu l f i ll one of the following conditions: ( 1) that they are established in "priority areas"; (2) that they are export-oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of output is exported or existing productive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent while at least 50 per cent of the additional output is exported; or (3) that, although for economic reasons the enterprise cannot be established in a priority area, its production is of the import- substitution type. There is no longer any difference between an "approved investment" and any other invest- ment made by a nonresident in foreign currency insofar as his rights to t rans fer abroad the principal or the inter- est or profits on his investment are concerned. The d ifference does still exist as regards other benefits, such as income tax concessions and grants. Every investment in real estate (held for at least five years prior to November 1971), debentures registered at the stock exchange, or shares that was made in Israel after May 15, 1948 in foreign currency that was con- verted into Israel pounds as the law required, or that was made in Israel pounds derived from the conversion of foreign currency, or in State of Israel bonds that may be used for investment purposes upon ma tur i ty, entitles the nonresident or imm ig rant concerned (providing in the latter case that the investment was implemented before his settling permanen t ly in Israel) to transfer abroad the proceeds of the liquidation of his investment by purchas ing fore ign currency at the official exchange rate. (For imm ig ran ts, this right is limited to the first ten years of the ir residence in Israe l .) In respect of inves tmen ts made by nonres iden ts to which the above principle does not apply, the proceeds of liquidation must be credited to a Registered Account. An invest- ment made f rom monies in a Registered Account, or f rom amoun ts which the owner was legally obliged f r om the outset to deposit in a Registered Account, can on ly be l iqu ida ted by cred i t ing the proceeds and the income to a Registered Account. Normally, the Registered Account must be credited with every right 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL acc ru ing in Israel to a fo re ign res iden t, sub ject to the app roval of the Con t ro l ler of Foreign Exchange. Proceeds acc ru ing f rom the repa tr ia t ion or l iqu ida t ion of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds f rom invisibles. Any resident may re ta in proper ty abroad, but not money, securities, or the income f rom proper ty; new imm i g r a n ts may re ta in l iqu id assets as well. Transfers abroad of a cap i tal na ture by residents o ther th an new imm ig ran ts are generally not permitted. Owners of TAMAM deposits are en t i t led to purchase fore ign securities registered at stock exchanges in speci- fied foreign countries. Foreign securities purchased to the debit of a TAMAM deposit can be sold abroad by their owners, or in Israel against fore ign currency to owners of other TAMAM or NATAD deposits. The proceeds of the sale can then be credited to the TAMAM account previously debited with the purchase. The owner of foreign securities bought through TAMAM or NATAD accounts is allowed to sell them also against Israel pounds, and the purchaser in his tu rn may sell them either against Israel pounds or against foreign currency (abroad or to holders of TAMAM or NATAD deposits); he is entitled to deposit the foreign currency proceeds in a NATAD account. This is the only manner in which NATAD accounts can be established. The holder of a NATAD account may draw on it to purchase foreign securities abroad, or to pay to a holder of a TAMAM or NATAD account foreign cur- rency for foreign securities. It is also permissible to purchase gold from monies in TAMAM and NATAD accounts, the procedure being the same. A general license allows authorized dealers to pur- chase real estate in Israel for nonresidents. Nonresidents may freely purchase shares, provided that purchases are financed with converted foreign currency; debentures, however, may be purchased by nonresidents only if they are quoted on the Tel Aviv stock exchange. Direct loans in any form are subject to licensing. Gold Residents, including private persons, may freely hold gold in any form either in Israel or abroad; purchases by private persons must be financed out of TAMAM or NATAD accounts, except for purchases of jewelry and articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches. It is forbidden to trade in gold, to transfer it from place to place, or to take it out of Israel. Gold can be sold only to an authorized dealer and can be bought only from an authorized dealer. Imports of gold are permissible only if an import license is obtained. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are transacted by five importing wholesalers. These wholesalers may sell the gold only to purchasers registered with the Purchase Tax Administration. The latter checks these purchases by each manu fac tu rer against the gold content of products marked as "purchase tax paid" in order to 254 e l im ina te the possibility of sales of these quantities of gold on the market as bu l l ion. Changes during 1972 January 1. The impo rt deposit requ i rement was reduced f r om 40 per cent to 30 per cent of the c.i.f. v a lue of impor ts. Impor ts on which the deposit would amount to less t h an I £500 were exempt. January 1. The final ta r i ff reduc t ions under the Ken- nedy Round concessions were imp lemen ted. In addi- tion, the th i rd reduction in duties on imports f rom the EEC und er the p r e f e r e n t i al t rade agreement with the EEC took e f fec t. April 1. The 20 per cent import surcharge was extended u n t il March 3 1, 1973. April 1. The b i la te ral paymen ts agreement w i th Hun- gary expired. April 15. Customs du t ies were reduced on imports of 420 commodities. The reduc t ions ranged f rom 3 per cent to 18 per cent and averaged 5 per cent. May 17. The par v a lue was changed from 0.211588 gram to 0.194884 gram of fine gold per I £ l. The new par va lue replaced the cen tral rate of I<£4 .20 = US$1. The effec t ive par i ty relationship for the U .S. do l lar remained unchanged at I<£4 .20 = US$1. Israel con t inued to ava il i tse lf of wider margins. May 17. Non res iden ts pu rchas ing real estate in Israel were not pe rm i t ted to repa tr ia te the capital proceeds f r om the sale of such proper ty for the first five years a f ter its acquisition. Thereaf ter, repa tr ia t ion was to be permitted in equal in s ta l lmen ts over a five-year period. The regulation was applied to land not yet bu i lt on. May 17. Short-term loans to residents f rom non- resident-held fo re ign currency accounts were suspended in order to l im it the conversion of fore ign currency f rom such accounts in to local currency; medium-term credits financed f rom such accounts were permitted only with ma tur i t ies of not less than five years. May 25. Export incentives paid to exporters were increased by 2 per cent, retroactive to January 1, 1972. June 1. Free Port Zones were established in Haifa and Eilat. June 1. Fu r ther ta r i ff reductions of up to 10 per cent were announced for 1,350 import items. July 5. The Gove rnment announced that a coopera- tive payment of I £0.10 per US$1 of exports would be granted to exporters who export goods to the value of less than US$100,000 a year. In addition, the Gov- ernment was to participate on a fifty-fifty basis in financing the export production expenses of these firms, up to a max imum of I £4,000 a year. A condition of governmental assistance was that the company's promo- tional expenses were more than 4 per cent of the annual value of its exports. August 1. Customs du ty reductions ranging from 20-30 per cent were put into effect on a number of consumer goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL September 7. F u r t h er i t ems were added to the Free Impo rt Orders L is t. November 28. Au tho r i z ed b anks were pe rm i t ted to pu rchase f o r e i gn cu r r en cy proceeds f r om exports for- ward. Cover was p e rm i t t ed for per iods of up to one yea r. December 5. B a n ks were f ree to es tab l ish t h e ir own ra tes of i n t e r e st on non re s ident accoun ts in fore ign cu r rency. December 5. The exchange a l loca t ion for tourist t r a v el was inc reased f r om US$250 to US$450 a person a t r ip ( f r om US $ 1 25 to US$225 for ch i ld r en under 1 2 ). Ce r ta in o ther fo r e ign cu r rency allowances, inc lud- ing those for s t u dy abroad, were also increased. December 5. The system of Blocked Accoun ts was abo l ished. N o n r e s i d e n ts became en t i t led to fore ign exchange at the o f f ic ial ra te of exchange for the trans- fer of ce r ta in f u n ds (m a i n ly the sales proceeds of cer- t a in assets acqu i red in Israel p r ior to 1968) that previ- ous ly were n o n t r a n s f e r a b le but could be exported, a f ter being placed in a Blocked A c coun t, t h r o u gh the pu r- chase of NATAD f u n d s. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00142187 gram of fine gold per Italian Lira, corresponding to Lit 625 = SDR 1, and a central rate of Lit 581.500 = US$1 has been estab- lished, corresponding to Lit 631.343 = SDR 1. All exchange transactions, however, take place at fluctuat- ing rates in a dual exchange market. Current trans- actions are channeled through the official or ordinary exchange market (mercato valutario ordinario or mercato del conti valutari ordinari) and capital transac- tions through the financial exchange market (mercato finanziario or mercato dei conti valutari valutario finanziari); no announced margins are observed in either market. The closing rate for the U.S. dollar in the official market on March 1, 1973 was Lit 562.05 per US$1, and that in the Milan financial market was Lit 553.00 per US$1. The monetary authorities do not in principle inter- vene in the fo rwa rd exchange ma rke t; forward pre- miums and discounts are norma l ly left to the interplay of market forces, although the Bank of Italy (the cen- tral b ank) may from time to t ime offer the commercial banks certain swap facilities. Authorized banks are al- lowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in U. S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convertible European currencies,2 when dealing with other banks, or up to 180 days when dealing with nonbanks. The permissible amount of forward transactions against lire is subject to a limit on net transactions set ind iv idua l ly for each bank. Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of financial transactions requires authorization. Italy forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the I ta l ian Exchange Office (Uff ic io I ta l iano dei Camb i) on the basis of ins t ruc t ions issued by the M in is try of For- eign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Min- istry of F inance at the request of the Ministry of For- eign Trade. Certain impor ts and exports require the prior visa of the Na t ional Foreign Trade Ins t i tu te. Issues 1 In view of changes that took place in early 1973 (see note at the end of t h is s u r v e y ), th is survey presents the position on March 1, 1973. 2 Au s t r ian sch i l l ing s, Belgian (L u x em b o u r g) f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, No rw eg i an knoner, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U. S. dollars. These currencies are referred to in the I ta l ian regu- lations as convertible cu r renc ies or conto valutario currencies. 256 of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securities. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must normally be made in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, or externally convertible European currencies, or depending on the exchange market for which the trans- action is eligible, in lire on Foreign Accounts or on Capital Accounts. Special arrangements are applicable under a debt l iqu ida t ion agreement with Egypt. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which non- residents are allowed to ma in ta in w i th authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts. The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts, with lire from authorized current payments, and with the proceeds f rom sales in the official market of U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convertible European currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the official market, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, for payments to residents of Italy for current transactions, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with ( 1) the proceeds of sales of the above-mentioned convertible currencies in the f inanc ial marke t; (2) transfers from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, f rom Special Accounts Under Law No. 211, and f rom other Capital Accounts; ( 3) the proceeds f rom the liquidation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provi- sions of Law No. 211 of March 2, 1948 or Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 (see be low ); (4) most loans in lire f rom residents to nonresidents; (5) all other per- mitted financial operations; and ( 6) interest on Capital Accounts. Capital Accounts may be debited for the purchase of convertible currencies in the financial mar- ket, for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy, for gifts, inheritances, loans in lire from nonresidents to residents, and all other permitted financial operations. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of Feb- ruary 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accord- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the counter-value of convertible cur- rencies sold in Italy in the financial exchange market, with transfers from Capital Accounts, from other Spe- cial Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases in the financial exchange market of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances on them may be transferred to Capital Accounts or to any other Special Account Under Law No. 43. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Practically all imports from other countries except Japan, mainland China, North Viet-Nam, and the CMEA countries are free of quantitative restriction; all goods, however, require a bank certificate for submis- sion to the customs authorities and sometimes also a license issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Commodities that still require individual licenses when imported from these other countries are included in a negative list (Tabella A Import).* Some items in the list require an import license only when originating in Israel or Yugoslavia. The general permission to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to Egypt and Yugoslavia only if the goods both originate in and are shipped direct from the coun try concerned; in addi- tion, in respect of imports of raw cotton, rice, and crude petroleum f rom Egypt, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD countries. (Seventy per cent of the va lue of other imports f rom Egypt must be paid to creditors residing either in that country or in any OECD coun try, and 30 per cent must be paid in lire to Egypt's lire account with the Italian Exchange Office .) A more extensive negative list (Tabella B Import) contains those commodities which requ i re an ind iv idual license when o r ig in a t ing in and impo r ted f rom A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, m a in l and Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U. S. S. R., or No r th V ie t -Nam. There is a special list of commodities, also inc luded in Tabella B Import, whose impo r ta t ion is u n i l a t e r a l ly and de facto liberalized when they both or ig ina te in and are shipped f rom A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Po land, Roman ia, or the U. S. S. R. These goods may be admitted by the customs w i thout a license, a l though some require a visa issued by the In s t i tu te of Foreign Trade. A separate negative l ist app l ies to J a p an ind ica t ing 3 Tabella A Import applies to all coun t r ies except A lb an i a, Bul- ga r ia, m a i n l a nd Ch in a, Czechos lovak ia, Eas tern G e rm any, H u n g a r y, J a p a n, N o r th K o r e a, M o n g o l i a, P o l a n d, R o m a n i a, U. S. S. R ., a nd N o r th V ie t -Nam. ITALY the goods that are subject to restrictive import licensing when imported from that country; some other items are included in a special list of commodities for which import licenses are issued freely. All other goods of Japanese o r ig in4 may be imported freely without an individual license, irrespective of the country from which they are shipped. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form com- pleted by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 million in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. The importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments opera- tions related to his import transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days after importation. Advance payments for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 30 days before importation. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropriate pay- ment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). International postal money orders may be used for import paymen ts not exceeding Lit 100,000 for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. Payments for Invisibles In principle, paymen ts abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general au thor iza t ion, however, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted. Exchange is granted free ly for remittances of earnings on invest- ments. Residents may use in terna t ional postal money orders for p aym en ts not exceeding Lit 100,000 for each rem i t ter and fore ign bene f ic ia ry. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Minis- try of Foreign Trade or the M in is try of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) con- tracts which require a permit if they involve residents of specified countries 5 and ( 2) contracts which requ ire a permit regardless of the na t iona l i ty of the nonresi- 4 All goods that are included neither in Tabella A Import nor in List A or List B of C ircu lar No. 606360 of May 28, 1963 (as am e n d e d ). 3 A lban ia, Bhu tan, Bu lgar ia, ma in land Ch ina ( in c lud ing Mongo l ia ), Cuba, Czechos lovak ia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, Khmer Repub l ic, N o r th Ko rea, Po land, Roman ia, U. S. S. R., No r th V ie t-Nam, and ( o n ly for cha r te r ing sh ips) Yugos lav ia. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY dents involved. The first group includes transactions g iv ing rise to expend i tu res for char ter ing ships (exclud- ing charters for a single trip); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safe ty of opera- tion; news agencies and newspaper correspondents ( f or amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion a mon th for the same p ay e e ); purchases of publication rights, in fo rma t ion agen- cies, etc. (for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion for each contract); copyrights (for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 mil- lion a year for each contract); services of professional workers and company managers (for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion); and services of entertainers and athletes (for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion). The second group includes t ransac t ions g iv ing rise to expend i tures for production abroad of films, u t i l iza t ion of films, scripts, synchron iza t ion, etc.; co l labora t ion in cinema- tography; insurance of ships and a i r c r a ft against risks of o p e r a t i o n ;G and o ther t r a n s a c t i o ns not pe rm i t ted by general authorization (when the amoun ts involved exceed Lit 1 million). Residents t rave l ing to fo re ign coun t r ies may ob ta in f rom the banks exchange equ iva lent to Lit 500,000 for each tr ip for tour ism, business, medical t rea tmen t, and education ( the correspond ing amount for group travel also is Lit 500,000); banks are au thor ized in excep- tional cases to supp ly foreign exchange above these allowances, up to Lit 1 m i l l ion a person a tr ip, pro- vided that they are satisfied that this is ju s t i f ied in the light of the dura t ion and purpose of the trip. Appli- cations for exchange in excess of Lit 1 m i l l ion a person a tr ip must be submitted to the Exchange Office. To the extent that he refra ins f rom obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addi- tion a proportionate amount in Italian banknotes, up to Lit 500,000.7 Nonres ident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have pre- viously declared upon entry as well as Lit 100,000 in I ta l ian banknotes. Foreign banknotes must be pu r- chased in the financial exchange market, wh i le pay- ments w i th other means of payment, inc lud ing travelers checks, and credit cards are settled at the official rate. Exports and Export Proceeds Expor ts to any coun t ry of a few commod i t ies in a special l i st (Tabella Esporf] requ i re export licenses. For exports not exceed ing Lit 1 m i l l ion in va lue, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 1 m i l l ion to Lit 2 m i l l i on in va lue, a fo rm com- pleted by the exporter is requ i red; for exports exceed- ing Lit 2 m i l l ion in value, an export document completed by an au thor ized bank is requ i red. The exporter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of dom ic i le, th rough wh ich he must carry out the paymen ts opera t ions re la ted to h is export transactions than 90 days a f ter if se t t lement takes place more e x p o r t a t i o n. Unless special approval is obtained for d ifferent terms of payment (see section on Capital, be low), exchange receipts must be collected w i th in 90 days of shipment, and they must be o f fe red for sale to an authorized bank within 7 days of receipt. Proceeds in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally con- vertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in foreign exchange accoun ts (conti valutari) for one mon th ,8 du r ing which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to resi- dents for au thor ized transac t ions or to negotiate them f ree ly with the I ta l ian Exchange Office or among them- selves. A f t er exp i ra t ion of the re ten t ion period, unused balances must be sold to the I ta l ian Exchange Office at the lowest o f f ic ial ma rket exchange rate quoted du r- ing the re ten t ion period (these off ic ial ma rket rates are determined da i ly on the basis of the average closing rates in M i l an and R om e ). Export proceeds may also be received by i n t e r n a t i o n al postal money order, up to amoun ts w i th in the limits established for ind iv idual countries, and in certain circumstances in foreign bank- notes. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom cu r rent invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender requ iremen ts as receipts f rom exports. Sh ipp ing and insu rance com- panies and travel and forwarding agencies may keep operating accounts (conti autorizzati) in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and ex terna l ly con- vertible European currencies. Residents may retain up to the equivalent of Lit 200,000 in fore ign banknotes left over f rom trips abroad and may use th is exchange for other trips abroad or sell it at any time to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in Italian or foreign banknotes. Foreign banknotes may be sold in the financial m a rk et on ly; settlements with travelers checks and credit cards take place at official market rates. Capital Capital transactions between residents and nonresi- dents must in principle be settled in the financial market. Inward and ou tward movemen ts of non res ident capital are free. However, loans of any k ind f rom non- residents to residents and f rom residents to non res iden ts requ ire specific au thor iza t ion f rom the M in i s t ry of the 0 Such t ransac t ions need au thor iza t ion by the M in is try of Indus t ry. 7 Persons living in border areas may not take out more than Lit 50,000 a day in fore ign and domestic banknotes and coins com- b in ed. 8 More precisely, the foreign currency may be retained un t il the second weekday a f ter the end of the first calendar month following that in wh ich the individual exchange receipt concerned was credited to the foreign exchange account. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Treasury or the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade, respec- tively, except, w i th regard to OECD coun tr ies, long- term loans (other th an loans f rom f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ions to non re s iden t s) for the purpose of es tab l ish ing or m a i n- t a i n i ng l a s t i ng economic re la t ions and loans to re la t ives up to the th i rd degree of r e l a t ion sh ip, and, w i th regard to EEC coun t r ie s, shor t- term (up to one year and not exceed ing Lit 250 m i l l i o n) and med ium - te rm (up to f ive years and not exceed ing L it 250 m i l l i o n) f i n a n c i al loans (i.e., loans not connec ted w i th commerc ial opera- t ions or the pe r fo rmance of services); for none of these is any k i nd of au tho r iza t ion requ i red. Repayment of such loans may be made f ree ly. Foreign investment in I ta ly is, in p r i n c i p l e, governed by Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 and subsequent im p l em e n t i ng regu- lations. Direct inv e s tm ent in OECD countries by physical or ju r id i c al persons (other th an pa r t ic ipa t ion by a f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion th at has its ma in office in I ta ly in a fore ign company not having the same corporate purpose), is permitted in any fo rm and w i thout any l im i t. Direct inves tment in other coun t r ies may be made only (under the supervision of the I ta l ian Exchange Office) by ju r id i c al persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the I ta l ian firm mak ing the invest- men t; other types of direct inves tment in such coun- tries requ i re special au thor iza t ion f rom the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these invest- men ts also covers the re inves tment of earn ings and the use for th is purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous inves tmen ts (af ter cred i t ing the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those estab- lished for export proceeds; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Residents of I ta ly are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of I ta ly or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited w i th an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. The purchase by residents of shares of fore ign financial ins t i tu t ions of any kind (including mutual f u n d s ), as well as con- vertible bonds issued by such institutions, requires prior approval by the Italian Exchange Office. In practice, however, a resident is able free ly to purchase shares of foreign funds that have received authorization from the M in is try of Foreign Trade to sell their shares in Italy, since that authorization is in fact valid also for the individual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, including that of investing at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in Italian securities and that of setting up a branch office in Italy. Residents do not require authori- zation to purchase real estate in EEC countries. ITALY All issues of secu r i t ies by non res iden ts on the I ta l ian cap i tal m a rk et r equ i re the pr ior approval of the M in- istry of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the ru les gove rn ing the issue in I t a ly of domestic securities. These ru les in c lude the pr ior approval of the Bank of I ta ly, a n d, for issues beyond Lit 500 m i l l i o n, that of the M i n i s t ry of the T reasu ry, the M i n i s t ry of Indus t ry, and the I n t e rm i n i s t e r i al C red it Comm i t tee. Issues are no rm a l ly res tr ic ted to i n t e r n a t i o n al i n s t i t u t i o n s. Transfers in connec t ion w i th dona t ions, inhe r i tances, and dow r ies may be made f ree ly. The t ran s fer of proper ty of res iden ts l e av ing I ta ly pe rmanen t ly is allowed in two stages: up to the equ iva lent of Lit 6 m i l l ion a person upon presen ta t ion of specified docu- men ts to an au thor ized bank at the t ime of leav ing I ta ly, and the rema inder sub ject to exam ina t ion of the documen ts by the I ta l ian Exchange Off ice, when resi- dence has been es tab l ished abroad. Special regu la t ions app ly to commerc ial credits and credits related to the pe r fo rmance of services. Advance paymen ts for impor ts may be made free ly if importa- tion is to take place w i th in 30 days; in all other cases, the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade is requ i red. When p repaymen ts for imports exceed Lit 5 m i l l ion, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. Deferred paymen ts for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cen t, w i th in 360 days a f ter impor ta t ion, and the balance w i th in 24 months a f t er importation; such paymen ts requ ire the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if the settlement is to take place between 12 mon ths and 24 mon ths a f ter importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. Advance paymen ts for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place w i th in 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the I ta l ian Exchange Office. Deferred payments for exports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least 90 per cent within 90 days a f ter exportation, and the balance within 24 months a f ter exportation; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Virtually identical regulations are in force for the permitted credit terms for imports and exports of services. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal granting of credits for commercial transactions or the performance of services, with a maturity longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected after examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Trade. However, f inanc ial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC countries as indicated above. The net external position of the banks is subject to control by the Exchange Office. This control encom- passes ( 1) the spot position vis-a-vis nonresidents in foreign currencies and lire together; and (2) the over- all position, spot and forward combined, in all foreign currencies. Authorized banks are permitted to incur a net foreign liability position and are prohibited f rom maintaining a net foreign asset position. The major banks have agreed not to pay interest on nonresident lire accounts (Foreign Accounts on ly ). The export of Italian and foreign securities is per- mitted only when they are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, or externally convertible Euro- pean currencies, or against f u n ds on a Foreign Account or a Capital Account. Gold All transactions in gold between residents and non- residents are settled in the official exchange market. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, w i th the exception of unrefined gold imported under ministerial license for indus tr ial pur- poses. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks that have been authorized by the Ministry of the Treasury may acquire unrefined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for industrial use.9 Imports of wrought and semi- manufactured gold, inc lud ing jewelry, are subject to licensing as are exports of wrought and sem imanu fac- tured gold other than jewelry. Commercial imports of articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as watches, are liberalized for most countries of origin. Imports of unrefined gold are subject to value-added tax at 12 per cent. Imports of gold coins for numis- matic purposes are subject to value-added tax at 18 per cent. Changes during 1972 January 15. The importation of certain goods origi- nating in A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, Roman ia, and the U. S. S. R. was liberalized. March 31. The Exchange Office changed its policy with respect to dollar swaps w i th resident banks by charging a p rem ium in favor of the Exchange Office, i.e., a p rem ium for the l i r a. (Th is policy was reversed on June 28 .) April 24. The Bank of Italy narrowed the exchange rate margins for the currencies of the other member countries of the EEC. The arrangements were designed to ensure that the max imum divergence f rom cross- 9 The supervision over imports of un re f ined gold was t igh tened in April 1973 and again in May. 260 parities between any two currencies of the member states of the EEC did not exceed 2.25 per cent. Sub- sequently, narrow margins were applied also to pounds sterling, Danish kroner, and Norwegian kroner. April 30. The Commission of the EEC granted authority to Italy, for a period of six months, to restrict imports from EEC countries of certain goods of Jap- anese origin, including automobiles, motorcycles, and television sets. (This authority was subsequently extended in amended form .) May 16. The Japanese yen was added to the list of conto valutario currencies. May 18. Imports of many goods originating in main- land China were liberalized. The degree of liberalization accorded to that country was approximately the same as that already enjoyed by Eastern European countries. (The same degree of liberalization was accorded to Eastern Germany in March 1973.) May 22. The prescribed terms for advance payments for imports (and services) were modified. Henceforth payment could be made up to 90 days prior to impor- tation (previously 30 days prior to impor ta t ion). May 29. Contracts between residents and nonresidents involving long-term leases on land became subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. June 23. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on June 28. June 27. The Is t i tu to Mobiliare I ta l iano ( IM I) was again permitted to borrow abroad at medium term. (Subsequently, foreign borowing operations were under- taken by IMI and several other public sector agencies, notably the Is t i tu to di Credito per le Imprese di Pub- blica Utilita ( the Public Utilities Credit In s t i tu t e ) .) June 27. The crediting of Italian banknotes and coins to Capital Accounts was prohibited. June 27. The intervention limits for sterling and Dan- ish kroner were suspended. (Those for the latter cur- rency were reinstated on October 18.) June 28. Italian banks, which previously were required to ma in ta in a balanced foreign position, were allowed to incur net foreign liability positions. June 30. Banks were instructed not to maintain net foreign asset positions and to apply to repayment of their swaps f rom the Exchange Office, on a daily basis, all foreign currency received f rom the repayment by their customers of foreign currency loans. August 2. The purchase by residents of convertible bonds issued by foreign financial institutions of any kind was made subject to the prior examination of applications by the Exchange Office (in line with Cir- cular No. A /237 of Janua ry 12, 1971). October 9. Imports of automobiles and their parts were liberalized, irrespective of country of origin. November 14. An exchange risk guarantee system for Italian exporters was approved by the Chamber of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Deputies. (Senate approval was obtained in April 1973, but enabling decrees were not immediately issued.) November 14. The ceiling on export credit guarantees was raised by Lit 250 billion to Lit 750 billion. December 3. The Committee for Export Credit Insurance for the first time approved the implementa- tion of Law No. 131 of 1967, which provided for an insurance facility covering exporters against increases in international prices of raw materials. December 5. In order to discourage lira lending that might facilitate the financing of leads and lags, the Bank of Italy increased the interest rate charged to banks for fixed-maturity advances of 8, 15, or 22 days on securities from 3l/2 per cent to 5l/2 per cent. The penalties for banks applying for such advances three more times within 6 months of the first advance were maintained. December 5. The Exchange Office offered com- mercial banks three-month swap facilities under which, to the extent of any net external creditor position, they could, in order to comply with the obligation to maintain a balanced position, sell U. S. dollars to the Exchange Office at current market rates, with a guar- antee that repurchase could take place at the same exchange rate. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1973: January 1. A value-added tax came into effect. It replaced the cascade-type turnover tax. January 5. Borrowing and lending between residents of Italy and residents of Austria, in respect of imports of Austrian origin and exports to Austria, with ma tur- ities in excess of those which banks could approve but not in excess of five years, henceforth was permitted subject to prior examination of documents by the Exchange Office. January 22. The period normally allowed for advance payments for imports was reduced f rom 90 days to 30 days prior to importation; as a result, payments 31 days to 360 days (five years for EEC countries) prior to importation were subject to prior examination of documents by the Exchange Office. The period within which export proceeds must no rma l ly be collected was reduced from 360 days to 90 days af ter shipment; as a result, collection 91 days to 360 days ( f ive years for EEC countries) af ter exportation was subject to prior examination of documents by the Exchange Office. January 22. The period d u r i ng which authorized banks were permitted to retain export proceeds in for- eign exchange accounts (conti valutari) on behalf of the recipients was reduced f rom six mon ths to one month after collection. This was applicable also to foreign exchange accounts in the financial market (see below). ITALY January 22. The use for the financing of current noncommercial transactions of existing lines of credit obtained abroad henceforth was permitted by the Exchange Office only if repayment of each individual transaction was to take place within 180 days. January 22. A dual exchange market came into operation. Current transactions were to be channeled through the official exchange market, where IMF and EEC margins would continue to be observed, while capital transactions were to be settled in the financial exchange market, where quotations would be freely determined by supp ly and demand. The existing exchange control regulations, inc lud ing those of June 28, 1972 concerning Italian banknotes, were maintained (with the exceptions mentioned in the fol- lowing January 22 entries). Payments and receipts eligible for the official market included those in respect of the following: imports and exports of goods; transport and communications (freight, harbor dues and unloading charges, postal and cable charges, e tc .); charges for the services of intermediaries (bank charges and fees, payments to forwarding agents, payments to commodity dealers, etc .); contributions to expenses of branches, repre- sentative offices, news agencies; advertising expenses; construction, repairs, and modernization (buildings, roads, bridges, ports, ships, e tc .); insurance and rein- surance, including indemnifications, contributions, and annuities; pensions and remuneration for work (includ- ing prizes, authors' copyrights, contributions in news- papers and films, patents, e tc . ); expenses of travel and sojourn; payment of interest, dividends, etc.; and mis- cellaneous (emigrants' remittances, taxes, duties, mem- bership fees, contributions and subsidies, legal expenses, maintenance of real estate, etc .). Permitted debits to Capital Accounts (related to the financial marke t) included those in respect of the fol- lowing: conversion into foreign currency in the finan- cial market; t rans fer to a Special Account Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 of lire stemming from foreign currency sold on the financial market for invest- ment in accordance w i th that law; amortization of loans in lire by nonresidents; donations and endow- ments; dowries; inheritances and bequests; capital and annuities certain owed by insu rance companies operat- ing abroad for life insurance policies; foreign invest- ments in Italy in securities and real estate; loans in lire f rom nonresidents to residents; other financial transactions allowed under the regulations in force; transfer to a domestic account (conto interno) when the holder of the account t rans fe r red his residence to I ta ly; and t rans fer to another Capital Account. January 22. The system of nonresident lire accounts was reorganized. Capital Accounts henceforth related to the financial exchange market only and Foreign Accounts to the official exchange market. Correspond- ingly, two types of resident foreign currency accounts 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY were henceforth d is t ingu ished: Ord inary Foreign Cur- rency Accounts (Conti Valutari Ordinari), which were related to the o f f ic ial ma rke t, and F inanc ial Foreign Currency Accounts (Conti Valutari Finanziari), related to the f inanc ial marke t. For both types of For- eign Currency Accounts, the ru le rema ined in effect that funds entered on such accounts mu st be sold on the ma rket not la ter than the end of the first ca lendar month fo l low ing that in which the ind iv idu al credit entry concerned took place. The v a l id i ty of balances as at the close of business on J anu a ry 19 wou ld expire at the end of February. F inanc ial ma rket settlements between residents and nonresidents could take place only through Capital Accounts. The fo l low ing were not a l lowed: (a) t ran s fe rs f rom Capital Accounts to Foreign Accounts, and vice versa; (b) transfers f rom Foreign Accoun ts, to Special Accounts Under Decree-Law No. 2 11 or Under Law No. 43, and vice versa; (c) credits and debits to For- eign Accounts for t ransac t ions invo lv ing cap i tal move- ments, with the exception of operations occasioned by the granting of loans covered by Law No. 131 of Feb- ruary 28, 1967; and (d) credits and debits to Au tho r- ized Accounts for transac t ions invo lv ing capital move- ments. Inward investments under Law No. 43 could only be made by first crediting to a Capital Account the proceeds of the sale of fore ign exchange on the finan- cial market, and likewise, funds held in Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 for t rans fer abroad fol- lowing disinvestment had to be channeled first in to a Capital Account. Foreign Currency Accounts in existence on Jan- uary 20, 1973 were designated Ordinary Foreign Cur- rency Accounts. Capital Accounts in existence on the same date became subject to the new rules for Capital Accounts. Capital Accounts could be held w i thout special authorization, at any Italian bank, by persons resident abroad. They could be credited with lire derived f r om: the sale of foreign currency on the financial market; loans in lire to nonresidents (except loans made under Law No. 131 of February 28, 1967); sales of securities and real estate by nonresidents; amortization by resi- dents of loans in lire obtained f rom nonresidents; g if ts and endowments; dowries; inheritances and bequests; capital funds and annuities certain payable to non- residents by insurance companies operating in Italy, on account of life insurance contracts; other financial operations allowed by the existing regulations; transfers from domestic accounts motivated by a change in residence of the holder of the domestic account to a foreign coun try; transfers from other Capital Accounts; transfers from Special Accounts Under Decree-Law No. 211 or Under Law No. 43 for the transfers abroad of the amount concerned; and f rom interest on amounts credited to Capital Accounts. 262 Capital Accounts could be debited for: conversion in to fo re ign cu r rency in the f inanc ial marke t; transfers to Special Accoun ts Under Law No. 43 of lire derived f rom the sale of foreign exchange on the financial market for purposes of investment as defined by that law; amor t iza t ion by nonresidents of loans in lire; gifts and endowments; dowries; inheritances and legacies; capital funds and annu i t i es certain payable by insurance companies operating abroad under l i fe insurance con- tracts; foreign investment in I ta ly in securities and real estate; loans in lire f rom nonresidents to residents; other financial operations allowed by the existing regu- lations; transfers to domestic accounts motivated by the transfer to I ta ly of the residence of the holder of the account; and t rans fe rs to other Capital Accounts. The same debits and credits were permitted to Finan- cial Foreign Currency Accoun ts held by residents. Lire amoun ts correspond ing to the u t i l iza t ion of lines of credit granted to nonresidents for operations of a financial n a tu re had to be credited to a Capital Account in the name of the beneficiary, and the lire required to reimburse this financing had to be d rawn also from a Capital Account. Forward transactions against lire carried out with nonresidents in connection with financial operations had to be closed on ma tu r i ty with lire from a Capital Account. Banks had to effect spot or fo rwa rd cover for forward operations aga inst lire on the same exchange market on which the und e r ly ing operation was to be effected at ma tu r i ty. Swap operations against fo rwa rd l ire had to be concluded with lire drawn from an account of the same type as that to which the lire were credited when the swap operation was initiated. All outstanding draw ings on lines of credit in lire granted by Italian banks to nonresidents had to be paid off on ma tu r i ty with lire from Foreign Accounts. All existing fo rwa rd operations against lire also had to be paid off on maturity with lire from Foreign Accounts. "Financial operations" were defined as all operations that could not be documented as being of a commercial or service nature. January 29. Banks were informed that swaps of lire against foreign currencies could take place in the finan- cial market only, and that outright forward transactions in lire against foreign currencies with foreign corres- pondents could not be effected in the official market unless there was a specific underlying commercial or services transaction. February 1. Transactions in foreign banknotes denom- inated in specified convertible currencies were shifted to the financial market; these were banknotes in the 10 out of 16 conto valutario currencies that, when repatriated to the country of issue, could be credited to bank accounts, balances in which were convertible at the official exchange rate. Transactions in travelers checks and settlements through credit cards remained in the official market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 1. The basic fore ign exchange allocation for t ravel abroad was reduced f r om Lit 1 m i l l ion a per- son a t r ip to Lit 500,000 a person a t r ip. The cor- responding ce i l ing on the export of I t a l i an bankno tes and t rave le rs checks d e n om i n a t ed in l i re by res ident travelers also was reduced f r om Lit 1 m i l l i on to Lit 500,000 a person a t r i p. B anks cou ld in excep t ional cases g r ant fo re ign exchange up to Lit 1 m i l l ion a person a t r ip if th is in the ir v iew was j u s t i f i ed in the light of the du r a t ion and pu rpose of the t r i p; applica- t ions for a l loca t ions in excess of Lit 1 m i l l ion a person a t r ip had to be subm i t ted to the Exchange Office. February 2. Banks were i n f o rm ed that the conversion of foreign bankno tes in to o ther means of payment had to be effected th rough a separate sale against lire. February 8. It was clarified that debits to Capital Accounts for t r an s f e rs to Special Accoun ts Under Law No. 43 were permitted. February 13. Fo l low ing the announ c em ent that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, I ta ly announced that for the t ime being the exchange rate for the lira in the official market would not necessarily be conf ined within announced l im i ts either in respect of the U. S. dollar or in respect of EEC currencies. Hencefor th, the exchange rates in both exchange marke ts were f lu c tu a t- ing rates. February 19. The period w i th in which export pro- ceeds in fore ign currency had to be offered for sale to the Exchange Office was reduced to seven days af ter receipt. February 19. The period within which holders of Financial Foreign Currency Accounts were required to offer for sale to the Exchange Office any unused foreign exchange held in such accounts was shortened ITALY to the second weekday a f ter the end of the first cal- endar month fo l low ing that in which each ind iv idual credit entry was recorded. February 19. Since the crediting and debiting of Authorized Accounts for cap i tal movemen ts had been prohibited by C i rcu lar No. A / 2 62 of J a n u a ry 20, the holders of such accounts were perm i t ted to cred it and debit Financial Foreign Cu r rency Accoun ts for the purposes for which the use of the ir Au thor ized Accounts had been perm i t ted prior to J a n u a ry 20. February 19. App l ica t ions for the modification of ministerial au tho r iza t ions for the g ran t ing of commer- cial credit could be subm i t ted to the Exchange Office, provided that they were necessary for the execution of the transaction and did not change the basic s truc ture of the transaction. February 21. The Special Accounts of in te rna t ional organizations and institutions were divided into Ordi- nary Special Accounts and Financial Special Accounts, related to the official and the financial marke t, respec- tively. February 23. Banks were instructed that the sale of fore ign currency to nonresident travelers leaving I ta ly was to be limited to the amount and currency previously sold aga inst lire by the trave ler concerned. February 23. Banks were informed that the screen- ing of applications for the authorization of the accept- ance or issuance of guarantees vis-a-vis nonresidents in respect of certain types of transactions was with effect f rom March 1 being taken over by the Exchange Office. (On Ap r il 13 the Exchange Office took over the screening of all guarantees vis-a-vis nonresidents, whether of a bank ing na ture or not .) 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Exchange system * No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange trans- actions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area take place in a dual exchange market, at rates based on par values and central rates in the official exchange market or at fluctuating rates in the financial f ranc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other current payments, as well as all current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. All other settlements with foreign coun- tries as well as all transactions in banknotes, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. The principal current payments and receipts channeled through the financial franc market are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and work- ers' remittances. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 = US$1. With the exception of those relating to gold, Ivory Coast's exchange control measures do not apply in financial relations with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Ivory Coast itself, are consid- ered foreign countries, and in principle financial rela- tions only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. The rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was also maintained on March 19, 1973 when new exchange rate ar- rangements between the French franc and certain other currencies came into e f fec t. aThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 264 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Sub- Directorate of External Finance and Credit of the Directorate of Public Accounts and the Treasury in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also super- vises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, foreign inwa rd direct investment, and all outward investment in foreign countries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either direct or through the inter- mediary of banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, and notaries public. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Sub- Directorate for Licenses and Foreign Trade Regulations in the Directorate of Economic Affairs and External Economic Relations. Import attestations for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself. Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or Financial Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Financial Accounts when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of such banknotes is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain imports from mainland China, Hong Kong, Japan, and Portugal are suspended. A few imports from all sources are prohibited (e.g., a specified type of coffee-husking machine and wheat flour) or subject to import license (e.g., sugar, paint, matches, and detergents). Imports of certain commodities, including rice, are linked to purchases of the domestic product. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution freely. V ir tua l ly all imports originating in EEC coun- tries other than France or shipped f rom those countries also are f ree f rom quan t i ta t ive restrictions and free of license; the exceptions are 16 items on a special list. As a rule, imports f rom non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area require import licenses and may be made in accordance with an import program, which is determined annua l ly by the Directorate of Economic Affa irs and External Economic Relations. Under this program, sem iannual global quotas are established for imports f rom such countries and special quotas for imports f rom countries with which Ivory Coast main- tains b i la teral trade agreements.- The program also includes indicative quotas for the EEC countries and a quota for Hong Kong and Eastern European coun- tries. The quotas establish limits up to which import licenses may be issued, for specified commodities, to licensed importers and, in exceptional cases, to indus- trial or agricultural producers who are considered as end-users of the imported goods. Certain products, con- tained in separate liberalized lists, may be imported f ree ly f rom any source, f rom the fo rmer OEEC coun- tries, or f rom Canada and the Un i ted States, respec- tively. All import transac t ions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value must be domiciled if a f inanc ial transaction is to be unde r taken before customs clearance. The import licenses or impo rt attestations entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before sh ipment if a documen tary credit is opened or eight days be fo re the payment is due if the commod- ities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area are per- mitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. Paymen ts for inv is ib les related to trade are perm i t ted f ree ly when the basic t rade transaction has been approved or does not requ ire au thor iza t ion. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonres iden ts in the fo rm of profits, d iv idends, and roya l t ies are also perm i t ted f ree ly when the basic transaction has been approved. Resi- dents t r av e l ing to coun tr ies o ther th an France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 150,000 a year a person ( f or both adults and c h i l d r e n ); any fore ign exchange r em a in ing a f t er r e tu rn to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The t r an s f er of the f u ll basic sa lary of a foreigner wo rk ing in Ivory Coast is pe rm i t ted upon presen ta t ion of the app rop r ia te pay voucher, provided 2 These inc lude Be lg ium, Repub l ic of China, Denma rk, Egypt, H u n g a r y, Israe l, Japan, N o rw a y, Po land, Sweden, and Switzerland. IVORY COAST that the t rans fer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out BCEAO banknotes up to CFAF 10,000. Trav- elers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the equiva- lent of CFAF 25,000 if they made no currency declara- tion upon entry. Otherwise, they may take out the amount declared, after adjustment for any amounts con- verted into CFA francs or d rawn against a Foreign Account in Francs in Ivory Coast. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of agricultural commodities, however, require the visa of the Sub-Directorate for Licenses and For- eign Trade Regulations. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Opera- tions Account country must be surrendered within two months of the due date but not, in principle, more than 180 days af ter the arrival of the goods at their destina- tion. All export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must sell them to an authorized bank w i th in eight days and must declare them to the customs upon entry. Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted free ly. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those relating to for- eign securities, these control measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member coun- tries of the West A f r ican Mone tary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institu- tions, and over all publicity aimed at placing f u n ds abroad or at subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing opera- tions abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The liquidation of invest- ments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be declared in advance to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Ivory Coast requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Ivory Coast has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this P Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compa- nies in Ivory Coast. 4 Including those made by companies in Ivory Coast that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. 266 authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports in to or exports from Ivory Coast, or by in te rna t ional t rad ing houses to finance international merchan t ing transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was sub- ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authori- zation. The lending of CFA francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years, however, is freely permitted. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs du ty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having pr ior i ty status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Ivory Coast. Impor ts and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) im p o r ts and expor ts by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1972 May 17. With effect f rom May 30, Notice No. 30 increased the amount below which exports to foreign countries need not be domiciled from CFAF 250,000 to CFAF 500,000. August 26. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, Order No. 1819 shifted a number of current transactions f rom the financial franc market to the official exchange market. The principal current payments and receipts that continued to be channeled through the financial franc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remit- tances. The Order came into force retroactively on June 1, 1972. November 10. By virtue of Decree No. 2486, imports of cotton printed materials from origins other than EEC countries required the prior authorization of the Directorate-General of Economic Affa irs and External Economic Relations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Jamaica Dollar. However, no exchange transactions take place at the par va lue. Exchange rates against sterling are ma in ta ined w i th in 1 per cent e i ther side of the effec- tive pa r i ty of J$l = <£ stg. 0.50. In practice, the Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dollars are con- fined to transactions in sterling and to purchases of U. S. and Canad ian banknotes; it deals in other curren- cies only against sterling. The Bank buys and sells ster- ling at par, plus a 0.75 per cent commission on the selling side. Exchange rates for other currencies (except the East Caribbean dollar, the Guyana dollar, and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar, which also have a fixed official relationship with sterling) are based on the buy- ing and selling rates for sterling in international mar- kets. The Bank of Jamaica sets daily official buying and selling rates for dealing with the banks in U. S. dollars and Canadian dollars against sterling on the basis of the previous day's closing quo ta t ions in New York; on December 30, 1972, the official buying and sell- ing rates for the U. S. dollar against sterling were US$2.3549 and US$2.3391, respectively. On the basis of these rates, the Bank also fixes daily rates at which commercial banks must deal with their customers in transactions up to J$25,000 involving Jamaica dollars against U. S. or Canadian dollars. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to levy a commission charge of up to 34 of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers of sterling; on December 30, 1972, these charges on dealings in sterling with the com- mercial banks were nil on inward transfers and 3/4 of 1 per cent on outward transfers. The commercial banks apply the same commission charges in dealing in ster- ling with their customers, with an additional charge of i/16 of 1 per cent on inward telegraphic transfers of less than J$ 1,000 and Vs of 1 per cent on inward trans- fers of less than this amount in the form of demand or sight items. The result is a selling rate of J$2.0150 per £ stg. 1 and buying rates of J$2.00 for transactions of more than J$ 1,000, J$ 1.99875 for telegraphic transfers of less than J$ 1,000, and J$ 1.9975 for demand or sight drafts of less than J$ 1,000. The Bank maintains fixed buying and selling rates Vs of 1 per cent either side of parity for the East Caribbean dollar, the Guyana dollar, and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar; for transactions in these currencies, the commercial banks charge a com- mission of 1A of 1 per cent either side of parity, buying * With e f fect from Janua ry 17, 1973 the Jamaica dollar ceased to float with sterling and the par value was changed to 0.900364 gram of fine gold per Jamaica dollar, corresponding to J$0.987013 = SDR 1 or J$0.909991 = US$1. Jamaica also availed itself of wider margins and announced that the U. S. dollar would be its intervention currency. Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Jamaica on February 20 established a cen- tral rate of J$l = US$1.10, corresponding to 0.810328 gram of fine gold per Jamaica dollar or J$l.09668 = SDR 1. Jamaica continued to avail itself of wider margins. and selling. There is a "bourse" (interbank exchange ma rke t) in which all commercial banks participate and in which only U. S. dollars and Canadian dollars are traded against sterling. Jamaica fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Min- ister is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and have authority to provide for- eign exchange for imports up to J$ 10,000, and for basic travel allowances and certain other payments up to specified lesser amounts. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Min- ister of Commerce and Consumer Protection. Prescription of Currency Jamaica has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory for purposes of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any for- eign currency.1 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Special regulations apply to settle- ments with Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require specific authorization. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Jamaica dollars may be held by persons who are regarded for exchange control pur- poses as normally permanently resident outside Jamaica. These accounts are fu r ther designated External Ac- counts, or Blocked Accounts. The commercial banks are empowered to open Exter- nal Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia. The funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica approved by the exchange control author- ities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. 1 All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including the proceeds f rom the sale of undeveloped land) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be invested in Jamaica dollar securities; the income f rom such securities is normally available for credit to an External Account. Funds originally held on a Blocked Account and the proceeds of securities purchased with blocked funds are normally available for credit to an External Account four years after the date of blocking. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. The assets of residents emigrating to countries outside Jamaica in excess of the prescribed settling-in allowance of J$ 10,000 are restricted for a period of four years. Imports and Import Payments Many goods may be imported freely under an open general license.2 Virtually all imports from CARIFTA countries are unrestricted. Imports originating in Rho- desia are prohibited and all imports originating in main- land China, the CMEA countries, South Africa, or Cuba require individual import licenses. A number of tariff items or groups of tariff items included in a special schedule of exceptions to the open general license are subject to individual licensing irrespective of country of origin unless ( for some of the items in this schedule) the goods originate in and are consigned from other CARIFTA countries (Antigua, Barbados, British Hon- duras, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, or Trinidad and Tobago). The special schedule comprises ( 1) goods for which specific quotas are assigned to importers according to their past performance, e.g., certain types of footwear, cheese, rice, and various consumer dura- bles ( f or these items import licenses are granted by the Trade Administrator against allotted quo ta s ); (2) goods which are prohibited, e.g., certain automobiles, radios, television sets, canned milk, cement, cigars, citrus prod- ucts, cheap clothing, household detergents, sugar, and coffee; ( 3) goods the licensing of which depends upon local supply, e.g., poultry, eggs, and vegetables; and (4) goods licensed to meet the requirements of the tourist industry only ( inc lud ing some liquors and sports goods). Payments for imports equivalent to J$ 10,000 or more are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Jamaica and all payments for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being met, and the importer presenting a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer 2 The open general license applies to all countries except A lban ia, Bulgaria, ma in land Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hung a ry, No r th Korea, Poland, Po r tugal (and associated terr i tor ies), Rhodesia, Roman ia, South A f r ica, U. S. S. R., and No r th Viet-Nam. Goods impo r ted u n d er the license must be consigned f rom one of the pe rm i t ted coun t r i es and m u st also o r i g i n a te in a p e rm i t t ed c o u n t r y. 268 is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments preceding shipment by more than six months. Certain goods are subject to a 5 per cent consumption tax (2l/2 per cent on coloring ma ter ia ls), whether they are imported or manu fac tu red domestically. Where such goods are imported, the tax is collected at the port of entry and is calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs, plus the customs du ty plus the tonnage tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions involving residents of Rhodesia, the following applies. With the exception of payments in respect of foreign travel, bona fide cur- rent payments are not restricted. Approval is granted freely for payments for all commercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. A basic exchange allocation of J$500 a person for each 12-month period commencing November 10, 1972 for foreign travel other than for business and professional reasons is made available automatically to residents by the authorized dealers. Additional amounts are granted in cases of hardship. Facilities for travel for business and professional reasons may be provided by authorized banks at the rate of J$60 a day for up to ten days a trip while applications for higher amounts are dealt with by the central bank. Expenses for hotel accommodations, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be deducted from the travel allocations. Author- ized dealers may, subject to the presentation of sup- porting evidence, approve payments for the follow- ing: refunds of income tax due to nonresidents; consular fees without limit, as well as transfers from the Ministry of External Affa irs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established staffs, High Commissioners, and diplomats; up to a limit of J$2,000 for ( 1) advertising and promotional expenses, (2) renewal and refund of premiums due to nonresident insurers, and ( 3) subscriptions to trade organizations; up to a limit of J$4,000 for commissions and expenses due by Jamaican firms to their agents and representa- tives and for serial rights in Jamaica of newspaper and magazine articles, photographs, strip cartoons, etc. Requests for additional amounts (except for travel) or for purposes for which there are no standard limits (e.g., remittances by charitable institutions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. Travelers going abroad may take with them Jamaica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other banknotes not exceeding J$100. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$200 (f .o .b .) for g i f ts and J$500 ( f .o .b .) for other exports may be freely ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited list.3 Where the value exceeds these fig- ures the goods may be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within six months from the date of shipment. However, certain exporters may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their proceeds to facilitate the import of items necessary for their operations; such retained export proceeds must not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica banknotes up to J$20 a traveler, and any amount of other banknotes; resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to a local authorized dealer upon return. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investment abroad by residents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved unless they result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. Residents must obtain prior approval from the Bank of Jamaica to make cash gifts, which are normally limited to J$200 in any 12- month period af ter November 10, 1972 from each donor, to nonresidents of Jamaica. With the exception of certain types of inves tment in real estate, all direct investments in Jamaica by non- residents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will be able to repatriate at any time his original investment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must register his investment with the Bank of Jamaica. Repatriation of investments in real estate is not permitted w i th in the period of five years following the sale of the investment if the investor failed to make any significant improvements on the land. Remittances of current items, such as profits and divi- dends, are permitted in fu ll when the application is supported by the appropriate set of accounts. Payments for amortization of, and interest on, foreign loans are permitted upon application to the ex- change control authorities. However, nonresidents are not normally permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jama ican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents of 3 The list comprises A lban ia, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hung a ry, No r th Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, South A f r ica, U. S. S. R., and No r th Viet-Nam. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South A f r ica, and exports to Rho- desia are prohibited. JAMAICA Jamaica and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the Caribbean Free Trade Association. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica; authorized dealers may, however, without reference to the exchange con- trol authorities, make loans or overdrafts to nonresi- dents of Jamaica up to J$2,000 for certain specified purposes. Authorized dealers may also without reference to the exchange control authorities make loans or over- drafts to resident companies or branches controlled by nonresidents up to J$20,000, provided that the borrower is not specifically precluded under some prior condi- tional permission from the exchange control authorities. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Repatriates taking up residence in the country of their nationality may transfer all their assets, with the exception of capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land; such gains are repatriable at the end of a five-year period from the date of the initial repatriation of the proceeds of the sale of other assets. Jamaican nationals emigrating are granted a settling-in allowance of the equivalent of J$ 10,000 at the official market rate of exchange; any assets in excess of the allowance are restricted for four years. Transfers to beneficiaries resident outside Jamaica under wills and intestacies are approved on the same terms as the transfer of the assets of Jamaican nationals emigrating, provided that all local indebtedness has been met. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized in- dustrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. All commercial imports of jewe l ry are prohibited. Changes during 1972 Early in the year, restrictions on imports from Japan were eased fu r the r. In addition to textile fabrics, certain other items could be imported, such as radios, tape recorders, toys, and laboratory equ ipmen t. May 1. The Jamaica dollar ceased to be legal tender in the Cayman Islands, which issued the Cayman dollar to replace the Jamaica dollar. June 3. The application of exchange control to the Sterling Area, which had previously been extended to June 5, 1972, was extended for a fu r ther period of six months to December 5, 1972. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA June 23. Jamaica ceased to be a Scheduled Terr i tory of the Sterling Area. Dealings in gold and foreign ex- change were suspended. They were resumed on June 27. June 23. Sterling Area Accounts, wh ich could be held by persons no rma l ly resident in the S ter l ing Area but outside Jama ica, were redes igna ted Ex ternal Accounts. June 27. W i th a view to en su r ing the orderly conduct of foreign exchange transac t ions by the b a n k i ng system th rough sterling, the Bank of Jama ica gave commerc ial banks a guarantee to the fo l low ing e f fec t: ( 1) Du r ing the period that Jama ica did not m a in t a in the par va lue of its currency, the Bank of Jama ica wou ld con t inue to sell sterling to commercial banks at the ra te of <£ 1 = J$2 (plus exchange commission not exceeding 0.75 per cen t ). (2) I f, a f ter Jama ica a n d / or the Un i ted K ingdom returned to the observance of ma rg ins a round par for their respective currencies, the Jama ica do l lar had de- preciated against the pound sterling, the guaranteed rate of <£ 1 = J$2 would apply to the net fo re ign l iab i l i- ties of commercial banks existing at that time, up to the limit of 5 per cent of their local deposit liabilities or their net foreign liabilities as of June 27, 1972, whichever amount was greater. June 27. The e f fec t ive par i ty relationship for the pound sterling was maintained unchanged at J$l = £, stg. 0.50, and exchange rates against sterling would be ma in ta ined w i th in 1 per cent either side of this parity. As a result, the Jamaica dollar began to depre- ciate in terms of the U.S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for which had been J$l = US$1.30286. July 28. The importation of motor vehicles was pro- hibited except for those already paid for or for wh ich importers were irrevocably committed. September 19. Items such as washing machines, cal- culating machines, and airconditioning units, which previously could be imported under open general license, were placed on specific import licenses. Impor ts of these goods during the period September 1, 1971 to Au- gust 31, 1972 had been valued at about J$2.5 million. October 31. Residents were required to declare all assets held outside Jamaica. November 9. The proceeds of all commodity exports henceforth had to be accounted for through an author- ized bank and the private sale of foreign exchange be- tween companies was no longer permitted. November 9. A total ban was imposed on the import of certain consumer items (including certain meats, fruits, fu rn i tu re, jewelry, and radios and television sets), imports of which had amounted to approximately J$12 million in 1971. Specific import licenses were required for crustaceans and mollusks, sports goods, b randy, and whiskey; imports of these goods, which had amounted to J$2.1 million in 1971, would be allowed only to meet the requirements of the tourist indus try. Licenses for items placed under specific licensing on September 19 were to be granted only when proof was presented that orders were irrevocably confirmed before the imposition of the licensing. The embargo on imports of motor 270 vehicles imposed on July 28 was extended through the end of 1972. For 1973, the policy wou ld be to restrict imports of automobiles to a total va lue of J $ 10 million, a reduction of J$8.8 m i l l ion from the va lue of such impor ts in 1971. Fu r the rmo re, a ban was placed on the impo r ta t ion of motorcars above a c .i .f. value of J$2,500 where the use of Jamaican foreign exchange was involved. Also, d u r i ng 1973 imports of vehicles other than automobiles would be subject to an overall quota of 50 per cent of the va lue of these imports in 1971, which had been J$15 .2 million. November 9. A restriction was introduced on the allocation of fore ign exchange for t ravel purposes. The basic a l lowance for ho l iday t ravel was reduced f rom the equ iva lent of J$500 a person for each t r ip to J$500 a person for each 12-month period commencing on November 10, 1972. A business t ravel a l lowance was introduced which, except in very special circumstances, was not to exceed J$ 1,000 a t r ip; it replaced a basic allocation of J$40 a day ava i lab le for 30 days. November 9. Persons e f fec t ing rem i t tances liable to w i thho ld ing tax (such as paymen ts of commissions and fees, royalties, rentals, head office expenses, and in- terest) were required to produce certificates f rom the Commissioner of Income Tax indicating that th is tax had been paid or accounted for to him and that the payment conformed w i th the contract or a r rangemen ts under wh ich it was being made. November 9. The exchange a l loca t ion for g i f ts by individuals to persons outside of Jamaica was reduced from J$500 to J$200 a donor a year. November 9. Nonresidents inher i t ing real property situated in Jamaica henceforth were allowed to take out only an initial amount of J$ 10,000, w i th the re- mainder to be released at the end of four years. Previ- ously, all transfers to beneficiaries resident outside Jamaica under wills and intestacies were approved, provided that any local indebtedness had been met. Repatriates of foreign nationality would still be per- mitted to take out all their assets when re turn ing to reside in their country of original domicile, but an exception would now be made for cap i tal gains f rom the sale of undeveloped land; such gains would be blocked for a period of five years from the date of the initial repatriation. November 9. The amount of foreign banknotes that resident travelers going abroad could take out was reduced f rom the equivalent of J$200 to J$100. November 9. The Bank of Jamaica asked the com- mercial banks not to expand their loans and advances beyond the level attained on October 31, 1972 and informed them that it would no longer enter into foreign currency swap arrangements w i th banks. November 9. An investment currency market was established. No implementing regulations were issued, however, during 1972. All capital transactions of non- bank residents (except transactions in Jamaican regis- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA tered stock issued in L o n d o n) wou ld be channe led through th is ma rke t. Transac t ions w o u ld be subject on the buy ing side to a p r em ium of 10 per cent on the Bank of Jamaica's buy ing ra te and on the selling side to a prem ium of 20 per cent on the Bank of Jama ica's buy ing rate (p lus the n o rm al commission charged on sales of exchange ). November 10. A business t ravel a l loca t ion of J$60 a day for a max imum of ten days a t r ip was established. November 17. The open general license for impor ts ceased to app ly to Po r tuga l. On December 9 it also ceased to cover imports f rom associated territories. November 20. The import of add i t ional consumer items was placed under specific licensing. The imported va lue of these items, together with certain other speci- fied items already under specific licensing, was to be restricted by quota to the 1971 level, wh ich was almost J$44 million. The items involved inc luded bu t te r, various meats, rice, cheese, onions, ce r ta in household goods, certain clothing, and certain footwear. November 30. Jamaica disinvoked Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. December 5. The application of exchange control to the Sterling Area was extended for another six months. December 16. Notice to Importers No. 2819 removed Japan from the list of nonpermitted countries of origin set out in paragraph 1 of the open general license for imports. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Yen, corresponding to SDR 1 — ¥ 360. A central rate has been established of V 308.00 = US$1, corresponding to ¥ 334.4 = SDR 1, and Japan avails itself of wider margins of up to 2% per cent. The official limits for the U. S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, which are set by the Ministry of Finance, are ¥ 314.93 (upper l im i t) and ¥ 301.07 ( lower l im i t ), per US$1; the exchange authorities will buy or sell exchange at rates within this range. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange trans- actions with nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must have a permitted unde r ly ing transaction. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Min- istry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, most of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Inward capital investments of a long-term character require the approval of the Minister of Finance and the com- petent minister (in some cases that of the Minister of Finance only) af ter deliberation in certain important cases by the Foreign Investment Council. Outward capi- tal investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Settlements in yen with foreign coun- tries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. All paymen ts to Rhodesia require prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of In terna t ional Trade and Indus t ry; in many cases such payments are prohibited or restricted for security reasons. Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonres ident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the Japanese Government decided, as a temporary measure, to allow the Japanese yen to float in the ma rke t; with effect f rom February 14, the market rate of the yen would not necessarily be conf ined w i th in the ma rg ins h i the r to observed. 272 may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen pro- ceeds from exports of goods to Japan and f rom other authorized transactions, with yen proceeds from sales of all foreign currencies, with transfers f rom other Free Yen Accounts, with balances outstanding on December 31, 1970 on Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts (see be low ), and with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward payments. There are no restrictions on payments f rom these accounts, and bal- ances may be converted free ly into any foreign cur- rency. Marginal reserve requirements are applied against increases in each authorized bank's liabilities on Free Yen Accounts over the average level in a specified base period. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds from transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts are limited ma in ly to proceeds f rom the sales of debenture and beneficiary certificates sold within six months f rom the date of validated acquisition. Bal- ances ou ts tand ing on December 31, 1970 were per- mitted to be transferred to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts or to be remitted abroad. Balances accrued after that date are not convertible into foreign cur- rencies, although remittances are permitted each year up to 30 per cent of the balance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of ¥ 720,000, whichever is higher. Withdrawals f rom these accounts are author- ized for certain purposes, such as meeting the outlays involved in managing investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresidents staying in Japan. Transfers to other Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be made freely, thus enabling the ind iv idual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another non- resident in return for fore ign currency, but there is no market for such funds in Japan. In addition, there are Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts in which certain proceeds from investments liquidated by foreigners may be placed. Balances on these accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for making other investments under certain condi- tions. However, these accounts are of limited impor- tance, because proceeds from foreigners' liquidated investments may be remitted through Nonresident Free Yen Accounts without having been placed in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Funds remitted to Japan by nonresidents for portfolio investment are channeled through special accounts opened at foreign exchange banks in the names of Japanese securities dealers (For- eign Currencies Securities Special Accounts and Yen Securities Special Accoun ts). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments With the exception of books and periodicals, imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are sub- ject either to individual licensing by the authorized banks or, if liberalized, to declaration to such banks. Most private imports are liberalized. There are two procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: (1) Under the Import Quota System (cov- ering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 84 items, in terms of the four-digit Brussels nomenclature; 33 l of the 84 items on the "negative list" have been notified to the GATT as residual restric- tions while the other 51 items have been notified as falling under the national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT), the importer must first obtain from MITI an import quota, which is based on the quantitative principle. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon application. Practically all import quota certif- icates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement, by MITI. (2) Under the Declaration System, imports are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction and licensing and require only a declaration by the importer to a foreign exchange bank. All items subject to the Declaration Sys- tem may be imported from any coun try except Rho- desia. Items under state trading include certain dairy products, certain cereals, salt, and raw and manu fac- tured tobacco. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the "standard" methods of settlement for imports. When the settlement proposal is not in accord- ance with one of the "standard" methods (i.e., when certain advance payment is proposed or payment is to be made more than four months after customs clear- ance), prior approval of MITI must be obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Inter- national Trade and Industry. Paymen ts to other coun- tries for invisibles also require approval, but current payments are not restricted and most such payments are approved freely by authorized banks w i thout any limitation or within certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, inc lud ing paymen ts that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; they are automati- cally approved without undue delay, upon verification of the authenticity of the current transaction. Resi- dents may purchase fore ign currencies for paymen ts in connection with travel abroad without limit, subject only to verification by the foreign exchange bank of the genuineness of the trip. A traveler is permitted to 1 Reduced to 32 on April 19, 1973. JAPAN pay in yen or in foreign currency before departure, the cost of transportation to and from his destination and for all side trips. Residents may freely and at any time make payments abroad up to US$3,000 a remit- tance, for virtually any purpose other than import pay- ments, repayments on loans, and technical assistance payments, etc. Certain insurance and technical assist- ance contracts require approva l; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any payment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Settlements which are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, individual approval; without such approval, payments for services, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months after, receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely ¥ 100,000 in Japanese currency. Subject to verification, i.e., upon oral declaration, a nonresident may take out freely foreign currencies up to the amount which he brought into Japan; w i thout verification the conversion into foreign currencies is limited to the equivalent of US$1,000. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports to Iran, Iraq, and Nigeria require special authorization. All exports (except exports without exchange) must be registered with an authorized bank ("bank certification"). Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the following restrictions: restrictions on cer- tain goods to control their export to communist coun- ries; - restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., minerals, fertilizers, and staple foods); and restrictions designed to forestall the impo- sition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles).3 Exports under processing and consignment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not under the "standard" method also require individual licenses. Under the standard method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in general, be settled by draw ing a bill of exchange payable within five months af ter sight or w i th in six months after ship- ment. There are no surrender requirements for fore ign currency earnings. The conversion in to yen of advance receipts in respect of exports, i.e., proceeds received before shipment, requires an ind iv idu al license when they exceed the equivalent of US$5,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the standard method of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under this method, 2 With e f f e ct f r om J anu a ry 1, 1973 these res t r ic t ions were eased. :t In o rd er to prevent an excessive ra te of g row th of exports, the Export Control Ordinance was first invoked (in respect of 20 items) w i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1973. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN receipts for the v a lue of services, etc., must be ob ta ined w i th in one year before, or w i th in six mon ths a f t e r, render ing the service, etc., but contracts for services performed for non res iden ts when payment is to be received by a nons tanda rd method are subject to indi- vidual licensing. Rece ip ts f r om inv is ib les need not be surrendered. Both residents and non res iden ts may b r ing in f ree ly any amount in fo re ign or Japanese cu r r en cy. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are genera l ly subject to approval, ma in ly in accordance w i th the Law Concern- ing Foreign Inve s tment (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acquisitions of stocks, bonds, deben tures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the fo rm of loans by foreign investors are in principle subject to v a l id a t ion or license. However, acquisitions of stocks for por tfo l io invest- ment are automatically approved by the Bank of J ap an in cases where total fore ign pa r t ic ipa t ion in the stock of a corporation not classified as a restricted indu s t ry remains below 25 per cen t ,4 or to tal fore ign par t ic ipa- tion in the stock of a corporation classified as a restricted indu s t ry remains 15 per cent or less,4' f) and the proportion of the total capital of any corporation acquired by a single holder rema ins below 10 per cent.4 Acquisition of stocks for par t ic ipa t ion in man- agement is subject (except in the case of newly estab- lished companies in the liberalized industries or in certain circumstances when participation in manage- ment is obtained by the purchase of securities w i th in the percentage limits mentioned above) to ind iv idual screening by the competent ministers, but it is approved in principle if no adverse effect on the Japanese econ- omy is expected. All these acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds f rom the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent, if the investor wishes to obtain remit- tance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock dividends from earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. At present, purchases by nonresidents of short-term government securities, of unlisted Japanese bonds and debentures with a matu- rity of one year or less, and of beneficiary certificates of Japanese bond investment trusts are not normally per- mitted. Furthermore, the acquisition of Japanese bonds and shares by nonresidents must be effected through secu- rities dealers or foreign exchange banks and is restricted, for each securities dealer or foreign exchange bank, to the amount of sales of such bonds and shares made 4 Effec t ive May 1, 1973 these limits were removed, provided that the corporation concerned consented to foreign participation. 5 Restricted industries include 18 industries, such as wa terworks, railways and other transportation, electric and gas utilities, banks, trusts, mining, fishery, and broadcasting. 274 for the account of nonresidents by the dealer or bank concerned after October 21, 1972. The fo l low ing are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds f rom the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for the ir acqu is i t ion: proceeds f rom the redemption a f ter ma tu r i ty of deben tures, beneficiary certificates, or c la ims in the fo rm of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on deben tures or on claims in the fo rm of loans; distributed profits f rom beneficiary cer- tificates; receipts f rom technological assistance con- tracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropr ia t ion or compu lso ry sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid because of expropriation may be repatriated free ly. The remittance of the proceeds f rom the sale of vali- dated stocks ( sha re s ), as we ll as the t r an s f er abroad of earnings on fore ign inves tmen ts acquired with foreign currency, is perm i t ted. Proceeds f rom the sale of vali- dated debentures and benef ic iary certificates norma l ly may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, if the securities have been held for six mon ths f rom the date of acquisition. Proceeds f rom the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen withdrawn from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, provided that the securities have been held for at least three years f rom the date of acquisition. Since October 1972 special rules have been in force which provide that the yen proceeds f rom sales of securities by nonresidents mu st w i th in one mon th of receipt be either reinvested in securities or converted into foreign currency for t rans fer abroad. Repayments of loans extended to residents f rom Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts become remittable, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, beginning three years f rom the date of the loan. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to inform the Ministry of Finance and MITI in advance through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds f rom their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches established in accordance with approved procedures are permitted to remit their profits and principal abroad. Foreign direct inves tment in Japan genera l ly requires approval by the Minister of Finance and the competent minister (in some cases the approval of the Minister of Finance on ly) after deliberation (in certain impor- tant cases) by the Foreign Investment Council. Since August 4, 1971, when the fou r th round of liberalization measures for inward direct and portfolio investment took place, the position has been as follows: Category B liberalized industries are 228 industries in which investment is free when new companies are established, with foreign ownership permitted up to 100 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Under a nega t ive list system, direct inve s tment in 7 industries is sub ject to case-by-case screening. Indu s- tries o ther t h an the 228 in Category B and the 7 on the negative l ist are Category A l ibe ra l ized indu s t r ie s, in wh ich d irect inv e s tm ent is free when new compan ies are established w i th up to 50 per cent fo re ign owne r- ship. For bo th d irect and po r t fo l io inve s tment in the shares of e x i s t i ng en te rp r i se s, a u t om a t ic a p p r o v al is given when less than 10 per cent of to tal shares are held by a single inves to r. Even where inv e s tm en ts for establishing new en terpr ises in liberalized indu s t r i es are concerned, however, i n d i v i d u al screen ing is requ ired in the fo l low ing in s tance s: (1) when the se t t ing up of new compan ies is on ly n om i n al and when these com- panies may be a c t u a l ly scheduled for ev en tu al me rger with compan ies a l ready in existence; (2) when fore ign capital may have the con t ro l l ing power over manage- ment in the indu s t r ies listed in Category A; or (3) where fore ign participation is considered exceptionally de tr imen tal to Japan 's in te res ts /1 Purchases by non res iden ts of real estate in J a p an for residential or o ther nonp ro f it purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of J ap an, and those of real estate for other purposes require approval by the Ministry of Finance. The approval of the Bank or the Ministry is g iven au toma t ica l ly. The t rans fer abroad of capital by residents and the making of investments abroad are subject to approval, but approval is either au toma t ic or free ly given for outward direct inve s tmen t, ou twa rd po r t fo l io invest- ment, and purchases of real estate abroad. For residents other than ins t i tu t ional investors, however, there are certain restrictions on purchases of un l is ted securities. Japanese emigrants may remit any amount f rom their assets to any coun t ry subject on ly to verification by a foreign exchange bank. Emigrants of foreign nation- ality leaving Japan also may rem it to any country any amount of personal assets, subject to verification by a foreign exchange bank. Outflows of long-term capital are being promoted by a foreign currency lending system und er which government ins t i tu t ions and foreign exchange banks are authorized to make foreign cur- rency loans to residents for their direct investment operations abroad and for advance payments in respect of specified imports.7 Outward financial credits and loans are subject to licensing, but as at the end of 1972 these were being permitted freely. Securities acquired with approval under the Law Concerning Foreign Investment may be impor ted and exported freely. 6 With effect f rom May 1, 1973 the numb er of indus tr ies under the negative list system was 5 (agr icu l ture and fisheries, m in ing, oil, leather, and re ta i l ing). Industries other than the 5 on the negative list and the 17 indus tr ies whose 100 per cent liberalization was post- poned for periods of not more than three years were immed ia te ly liberalized, with foreign ownersh ip permissible up to 100 per cent. 7 With effect from May 1, 1973 this system was expanded. The proportion of loans that borrowers could take up in the form of foreign cu r rency was raised f rom 70 per cent to 90 per cent and the use of these loans was perm i t ted for real estate purchases abroad and for advance payments in respect of any type of imports. JAPAN The switching of fore ign f u n ds in to yen by au thor ized banks is sub ject to regu la t ion. Banks are subject to con- trols on t h e ir ove ra ll net position in fo re ign currency (spot and fo rwa rd comb in ed ). They are also subject to m a rg in al reserve requ i remen ts against increases in th e ir l iab i l i t ies on Non res ident Free Yen Accoun ts. The interest rates on such accounts and on nonresident- owned fore ign cu r rency a c coun ts mu st not exceed those on resident-owned deposits, but otherwise are not sub- ject to control. Gold Domestic producers sell their produc t ion, subject to government guidance, to gold ingot dealers at ¥ 660 a gram for domestic indus tr ial and den tal use. From t ime to t ime the M in i s t ry of F inance th rough its Special Account for Precious Metals purchases gold in overseas markets for resale at ¥ 660 a gram to mining com- panies, which must resell in turn, at the same price, to processors. Exports and other imports of gold are not permitted. Residents are free to hold gold and to pur- chase and sell it in domestic transactions.8 Changes during 1972 January 3. An agreement between the Governments of Japan and the United States was signed covering exports to the United States of man-made fiber and wool textile products. January 6. The directive of August 27, 1971 was revoked which had prohibited banks f rom permitting any increase (beyond the August 27, 1971 level) in balances on Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. January 6. The directive of September 1, 1971 was revoked which had made the conversion into yen of advance export receipts subject to prior approval. January 6. The remaining guidelines on borrowing of Euro-currencies and other short-term external funds by banks were terminated (i.e., the restrictions that were left after December 21, 1971, when the directive of August 19, 1971 was revoked which had prohibited banks from exceeding the August 18, 1971 level of their short-term external borrowing; these remaining restrictions consisted of monthly guidelines on Euro- currency borrowings and of ceilings on the sum of each bank's net Euro-dollar liabilities and gross liabilities on Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Guidelines on Euro- currency borrowings had been in effect since 1964). The "yen conversion restriction" on banks' net foreign positions remained in effect. January 6. The special controls over balances in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts resulting from nonresi- 8 With effect f rom April 1, 1973 the prohibition on private imports of industrial gold (bars and ingots) and of gold coins was lifted and prices in domestic transactions ceased to be subject to control. Furthermore, resident travelers were freely permitted to bring in up to one kilogram of industrial gold a person a trip. At the same time, it was announced that imports of gold objects would be fu l ly liberal- ized on July 1, 1973. (The volume of bullion imports could be limited at the discretion of the au tho r i t ies if it reached a level that exerted a disruptive effect on international gold markets.) 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN dents' securities transactions in Japan were removed. (These controls had been introduced on May 17, 1971.) February 1. Quantitative import restrictions on two "ex" items were removed. February 1. The 11 items on the Automatic Import Quota List were transferred to the Au toma t ic Approval System. February 7. Agreement was reached w i th the EEC on Japanese exports of, and EEC import quotas on, speci- fied cotton textiles. February 10. Bilateral negotiations w i th the United States were concluded. Agreement was reached on various trade and capital liberalization matters. February 25. Prior approval again was required for the conversion into yen of advance export receipts. Such approval was limited to the equivalent of US$10,000 for each export transaction. February 28. Trust banks could purchase securities listed on foreign stock exchanges without limit. March 1. Resident foreign banks could no longer convert U. S. dollars in to yen beyond their ou ts tand ing ceiling. March 1. Steel producers extended their vo lun tary controls on exports to the United States for another year; this period could be prolonged for a max imum of three years. March 10. The fac i l i ty was liberalized which had enabled residents to make payments abroad freely up to the equivalent of US$100 a person a year. Hence- for th, residents could freely make remittances at any time, up to US$1,000 a remittance ( f or virtually any purpose other than import paymen ts and without for- ma l i t ies). This fac i l i ty was fur ther expanded on Novem- ber 10 and November 20, when remittances up to US$3,000 could be made f ree ly and at any time. March 29. The Bank of Japan suspended two of its preferen t ial schemes for export financing, the scheme for "purchases of fore ign exchange bills" and that for "loans against fore ign exchange assets." Previously, the preferen t ial rate of interest under these facilities had already been ad ju s ted to the level of the official dis- count rate for commercial bills. March 30. City banks, local banks, and long-term credit banks could purchase listed securities on fore ign stock exchanges w i thout limit. April 1. Import duties were reduced on 238 ta r i ff items. The tempo ra ry reduction of du t ies on 89 other items was ex tended; certain other measures were also taken w i th respect to these 89 items. April 1. The US$3,000 limit on the use abroad of credit cards issued by Japanese banks was l i f ted. April 1. The geographic coverage of Japan 's system of generalized ta r i ff p re fe rences was expanded. Among the new beneficiaries was Hong Kong (subject to a special exceptions l i s t ). The ce i l ing control scheme 276 under the generalized tariff preferences was amended; the number of items subject to daily control was reduced and the number under monthly control increased. The system was fu r ther liberalized on May 15. April 1. Quantitative restrictions on six fu ll import items were removed. These included refined sugar, sul- fu r, and certain gas and fuel oils. April 1. The Bank of Japan increased its import financing credits in yen to foreign exchange banks from 30 to 50 per cent of the value of new import usance facilities extended by the bank concerned to its cus- tomers. Banks could use these yen loans to obtain foreign currency on a swap basis f rom the Foreign Exchange Fund Special Account. April 1. The electrical machinery industry imposed voluntary restraints on exports of several items to Western Europe. April 17. A Dollar Call Market was established in Tokyo. In this market, Japanese city and trust banks and foreign banks established in Japan could freely lend and borrow short-term funds (up to six months) in any foreign currency among themselves. Nonresi- dents did not have access to this market. April 25. Private placements with institutional inves- tors in Japan were permitted of securities that had been newly issued abroad (including Euro-dollar bonds). Such placements could not exceed 50 per cent of a new issue. The issues could take place in any foreign currency. (The fac i l i ty was first used in May .) April 27. The Ministerial Ordinance concerning the Notification, etc., of the Offering for Subscription or for Sale of Foreign Bonds, etc., was promulgated. It was applicable to the flotation of foreign bonds in Japan by foreign issuers such as States, local public entities, governmental agencies, and international organizations. May 1. Legislation was adopted which empowered the Bank of Japan to impose reserve requirements against resident-owned fore ign currency deposits and against all liabilities of banks to nonresidents. May 1. Quantitative import restrictions on two "ex" items were removed. May 8. All surrender requirements for receipts in foreign currencies were abolished, whe ther these resulted f rom exports of goods and services or f rom capital transactions. May 8. In view of the abo l i t ion of the surrender requirements for fore ign currency, residents and non- residents were free ly permitted to open foreign cur- rency accounts w i th foreign exchange banks. May 8. Following the abolition of the surrender requ iremen ts for foreign currency, travelers were per- mitted to pay t ranspo r ta t ion fares in foreign currency. May 22. It was announced that the subscription by residents to fore ign bond issues entirely floated in Japan ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (both yen-denominated bonds and foreign currency bonds) would be permitted on a case-by-case basis. May 22. Outward portfolio investment was fu r ther liberalized. Institutional investors henceforth were allowed to purchase also unlisted foreign securities (except those of foreign institutions for collective invest- m e n t ). (The liberalization measure of Ju ly 1, 1971 had in principle affected purchases of listed stocks and bonds only.) Purchases of foreign stocks and bonds by other investors continued to be liberalized only when the securities were listed or scheduled to be listed. May 23. The Cabinet decided on a second yen defense program to rectify the external payments posi- tion. The program envisaged, among other things, the acceleration of imports by increases in quotas, the untying of economic aid, a fur ther liberalization of out- ward portfolio and direct investment, and a more efficient use of the foreign exchange reserves, for example, for overseas investment in the development of natural resources. (Pa rt of this program, which required legislation, fa i led to obtain approval by the Diet.) June 1. Marginal reserve requirements against increases in balances in Nonres ident Free Yen Accounts were introduced. The reserve requirement of 1% per cent against existing balances was abolished, but any increases in balances (over the daily average of bal- ances du r ing the period Ap r il 21 through May 20, 1972) became subject to a reserve requirement of 25 per cent. Previously, reserve requirements had been un i fo rm for both resident-owned and non re s iden t- owned funds. June 1. The requ irement introduced in June 1962 that banks must hold a specified percentage of their total ou ts tand ing foreign liabilities in the fo rm of rela- tively liquid foreign exchange assets was abolished. (The prescribed m i n im um ratio had been 15 per cent since Apr il 1966.) June 7. The acquisition of real estate abroad was fur ther liberalized. All purchases henceforth qualified for automatic approval. (The liberalization measure of Ju ly 1, 1971 had in principle affec ted on ly those cases where property was purchased for the use of the appli- cant, and not purchases for rental or resale purposes.) June 8. Ou tward direct inves tment was f u r t h er lib- eralized. All direct inves tment invo lv ing the establish- ment of new compan ies abroad hence fo r th qua l i f ied for automatic app rova l. (The l ibe ra l iza t ion measure of Ju ly 1, 1971 had in principle affected on ly those cases where the overseas company was to be controlled by Japanese investors.) June 24. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on June 29. June 29. Foreign currency remitted to Japan by non- residents for the purchase of securities henceforth had to be credited to special foreign currency accounts JAPAN (Foreign Currencies Securities Special Accounts) opened at foreign exchange banks in the names of Japanese securities dealers. Balances in these accounts could not be converted into yen un t il the contract for the purchase of the securities had been concluded, and the yen also had to be credited first to special accounts (Yen Securities Special Accounts). June 29. The ceiling on the free conversion into yen of advance export receipts was reduced from the equivalent of US$10,000 to US$5,000 for each export transaction. July 1. Imports of foreign technology were further liberalized, in part on Ju ly 1 and in part during the remainder of the year. Henceforth the import of all technology not related to electronic computers or petro- chemicals qualified for automatic validation. Technol- ogy imports relating to electronic computers would be liberalized not later than Ju ly 1, 1974 and those relat- ing to petrochemicals not later than Janua ry 1, 1973. (Previously, Japan had invoked OECD reservations relating to the import of technology in the sectors of aircraft, weapons, explosives, nuclear energy, space development, electronic computers, and petrochemicals.) July 1. The marginal reserve requirements against increases in balances in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts were increased f rom 25 per cent to 50 per cent and calculated on a new base (increases over the daily average of balances d u r i ng the period May 21 through J u ne 20, 1972). July 1. Residents other than ins t i tu t ional investors were allowed to buy and sell foreign securities from and to Japanese securities dealers, irrespective of whether the transac t ions were channe led through a stock exchange abroad. (Prev ious ly, such purchases and sales had to effected on stock exchanges abroad.) July 25. The first postwar bond issue in Japan by a fore ign gove rnment took place. The bonds were denom- ina ted in yen. July 25. The first placings of dollar-denominated notes to be taken up en t i re ly in Japan took place. August 1. The Electric Mach inery Industries Associ- a t ion app l ied price controls to exports of television sets and tape recorders to Western European countries. August / / .A gu ide l ine was introduced providing that fo re ign issuers of yen -denom ina ted bonds (other than ce r ta in i n t e r n a t i o n al f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s) henceforth were required to convert 90 per cent of the proceeds into foreign currenc ies immed ia te ly. Issuers were also requested to rem it the r em a ind er abroad within one year. August 18. A fo re ign currency lend ing system was announ c ed. Four government ins t i tu t ions ( the Export- Impo rt B ank, the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, the Oil Resource Development Corporation, and the Me tal M i n i ng Agency of J a p a n) as well as foreign exchange banks were permitted to lend foreign cur- 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN rencies to Japanese investors for overseas direct invest- ments and for advance paymen ts in respect of specified imports. Foreign currency could be provided for up to 70 per cent of each loan. September 1. The import procedure under the Auto- matic Approval System was amended to exempt f rom approval imports valued at V 308,000 or less, irrespec- tive of delivery with or w i thout compensa t ion. September 1. Agreement was reached w i th the Un i ted States on certain trade matters. Imports f rom that coun- try would be accelerated. September 11. Regu la t ions requ i r ing domestic prod- ucts to be given preference over imported goods in purchases by the pub l ic sector were abolished. September 12. Any foreign currency could be con- verted into yen for deposit in a Nonres ident Free Yen Account. Previously, only the proceeds of 15 major cur- rencies (those that under the "designated receivable fore ign currency system," which was abolished in June 1971, were considered "convertible foreign currencies") could be credited to Free Yen Accounts. September 25. The foreign currency lend ing system came into effect. September 30. The Bank of Japan abolished its remaining preferential export f inanc ing schemes (dis- counting of export bills under the "export usance bill system" and advance credit for exports under the "export advance bill system"). Previously, the prefer- ential rate of interest under these schemes had already been adjusted to the level of the official discount rate for commercial bills. All types of preferential export financing now were either suspended or entirely eliminated. October 5. The first public offer ing of foreign stocks for subscription in Japan took place. October 20. The Cabinet decided on a third yen defense program to achieve equilibrium in the balance of payments. The program envisaged, among other things, fur ther liberalization of imports, increases in import quotas, use of the Export Control Ordinance to restrain the growth of exports, increased economic cooperation with foreign countries, measures to restrict the acquisition of Japanese securities by nonresidents, and fur ther liberalization of inward direct investment. Certain remaining tax concessions to exporters would be abolished. (The Export Control Ordinance was first invoked with effect from January 1, 1973.) October 21. The acquisition of Japanese bonds and shares by nonresidents was restricted. First, all pur- chase transactions had to be made through authorized dealers in securities or through foreign exchange banks. Second, each individual securities dealer or foreign exchange bank was required to limit the acquisition for the account of nonresidents of Japanese bonds and shares to the amount of sales of such bonds and shares made for the account of nonresidents by the dealer or 278 bank concerned a f ter October 21, 1972. Exempt from these limitations were (1) the acquisition of shares for purposes of direct inves tmen t; (2) the acquisition of newly issued shares under a rights issue; and (3) acquisitions authorized pr ior to October 21. Further- more, for nonresidents' purchases of shares there was a "leeway" provision (so-called swing system) to the effect that these could du r ing six successive business days exceed nonresidents' sales of shares, up to the amount of the mon th ly average of sales hand led by the securities dealer or b ank concerned du r ing the previous three mon th s. (This "leeway" provision was revoked on February 5, 1973, when the use of the swing system became subject to approval by the Minister of Finance.) October 21. Medium-term and long-4erm foreign cur- rency lending abroad by commercial banks became subject to verification by the M in is try of Finance. October 23. In view of the increasing number of transactions in which used ships were exported and then utilized as chartered ships (mos t ly by the export- ers themse lves), all charter contracts involving ships and a i rc ra ft exported f rom Japan a f ter October 23 were made subject to verification by the Bank of Japan. October 27. Agreement was reached between the Government and organized business that the growth of exports of specified commodities (20 product groups) should be limited du r ing the period from September 1, 1972 to August 31, 1973 in order to reduce Japan's export su rp lus by US$1 billion on an annual basis. November 1. The interest rate charged for import financing by the Export-Import Bank of Japan was reduced by 1 percentage point, in implementation of the third yen defense program. November 18. The purchase by residents of securities issued by foreign institutions for collective investment (mu tual funds, etc.) was liberalized; these securities previously were excluded f rom the liberalization of out- ward portfolio investment that occurred on July 1, 1971. The new measure consisted of two parts: ( 1) The purchase by any resident of open-end type securities was f u l ly liberalized. (2) The purchase of closed-end type securities became subject to the same treatment as that of foreign common stocks. This meant that the purchase by residents other than institutional investors was liberalized only for securities listed or scheduled to be listed on a foreign stock exchange, while the purchase by institutional investors was liberalized irre- spective of whether the securities were listed, scheduled to be listed, or neither. November 20. The remittance facility of March 10, 1972 (see above) was increased to US$3,000 a remittance. November 22. In implementation of the third yen defense program, a 20 per cent across-the-board tariff cut was effected on 1,865 tariff items. November 24. The basic exchange allowance of US$3,000 a person a trip for travel abroad was abol- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ished. Foreign exchange banks hence fo r th were author- ized to sell residents any amount of fo re ign exchange for travel purposes, provided only that the bank con- cerned verified the authenticity of the trave l. November 24. Residents were pe rm i t ted to make remittances abroad w i thout l im i t, by the standard method of se t t lement and th rough a fore ign exchange bank, in respect of certain services (such as copyright or adve r t is ing) for which prev ious ly ver if ica t ion by the Bank of J ap an was requ i red when app l ica t ions exceeded specified amoun t s. Hencefor th, only ver if ica t ion by the bank concerned of the a u t h e n t i c i ty of the transac t ions was required. November 24. Certain remittances abroad referred to as "general external paymen ts" ( in c lud ing the remit- tance of wages and salaries earned in Japan by resi- dents of fore ign n a t ion a l i ty) could be made up to any amoun t, provided on ly that the au then t ic i ty of the transaction was ver if ied by a foreign exchange bank. Previously, verification by the Bank of Japan was required when app l ica t ions exceeded specified amounts. November 24. The limit up to which nonresident travelers were allowed to take out foreign currencies JAPAN to raised f rom US$200 without verification was US$1,000 a person. November 24. Japanese em ig ran ts could remit abroad their f u ll assets, subject to verification only by a for- eign exchange bank. Previously, verification by the Bank of Japan was required for amounts in excess of US$10,000 or its equ iva lent in other currencies. November 24. The Article in the Import Trade Control Ord inance con ta in ing the au thor i ty for the app l ica t ion of advance import deposits was revoked ( the deposit ra t io had been zero since May 18, 1970). December 20. The Import Trade Control Ordinance was amended to provide for free importation of com- modities not subject to impo rt quotas, subject only to a declaration of importation at a foreign exchange b a n k; a license from the foreign exchange bank ceased to be required. Thus, the Au toma t ic Approval System was abolished, and the import system comprised only the Import Quota System and the Declaration System. December 27. The issue of dollar certificates of deposit in London by foreign exchange banks with branches in London, which since September had been permitted up to ceiling amoun ts, was fu l ly liberalized. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Exchange Rate System * The par value is 2.29184 grams of fine gold per Jordan Dinar, corresponding to JD 0.387754 = SDR 1 or JD 1 = US$2.80, and Jordan avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank's official limits for the U. S. dollar are US$2.863 buying, and US$2.737 selling, per JD 1 and commercial banks deal with the public within these limits. On December 31, 1972, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were US$2.80112 and US$2.785515 per dinar, and those for sterling were <£ stg. 1.193317 and <£ stg. 1.186240 per dinar.1 The same buying and selling rates were also quoted by the commercial banks. Authorized banks deal in currencies other than U. S. dollars at rates usually based on the rates in the London and New York markets. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of Vio of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Relations Department of the Central Bank of Jordan, which also issues exchange licenses; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to authorized banks the issu- ance of exchange licenses up to a permitted annual limit for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad. An Import Committee comprising representatives of the Ministries of National Economy and Finance and Customs and the Central Bank pre- sents from time to time suggestions and recommenda- tions concerning changes in import policy to the Minister of National Economy. In addition, an Eco- nomic Security Committee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones concerning any aspect of Jordan's economic policies when this is con- sidered necessary to the national interest. Prescription of Currency Jordan has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. All settlements with Egypt, except those for Egyptian rice exports (paid for in U. S. dollars * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Jordan maintained its par value in terms of gold. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became JD 1 = US$3.1111. With effect f rom February 17, the Cen tral Bank quoted official buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar of US$3.1056 and US$3.0864, respectively, per JD 1. 1 In addition to U. S. dollars and pounds sterling, the Central Bank maintains official quotations for deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, and Swiss francs. 280 outside the clearing arrangements) must be made in pounds sterling through clearing accounts under the bilateral payments agreement with that country. Pay- ments to other countries may be made in any currency. Proceeds f rom exports and invisibles must be col- lected, and surrendered where required, in any con- vertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan or in Jordan dinars from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank of Jordan, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts. These accounts must be fed with appropriate funds. The approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts. Transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain i t em s2 f rom any source, some imports f rom Romania, and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import licenses if their c. & f. va lue is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the M in is try of Na t ional Economy, except for cer- tain items 3 which are subject to scrutiny by the Min- ister of Na t ional Economy (whose prior approval is also required for impor ts of indus t r ial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expan- sion of an indus t r ial firm) or scrutiny by the competent ministry. Importers of tea must meet 80 per cent of their requirements, and those of cast iron or steel tubes 50 per cent of their requirements, f rom Indian sources. Import licenses are generally valid for 12 months. The importer must complete the process of importation w i th in the period of va l id i ty of the license. Imports should, in principle, enter the country through the port of Aqaba; goods that do not meet this requirement are subject to a penalty of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value (10 per cent for certain food s tu f f s ). The Import Committee may grant exemptions from these rules on a case-by-case basis upon application. Bank guarantees in favor of the Ministry of Finance 2 These include carbonic acid; arak; alcohol; nonalcoholic beverages; diesel-engined cars, trucks, and buses; and military uniforms. Certain of these commodities may be imported, however, from Arab Common Market countries and from countries with which trade agree- ments are in force. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other agr icu l tural commodities are prohibited in good crop years. 3 These items on the "restricted list" include ghee, margarine, and other vegetable f a t s; tomato ju ice; saccharin; Dulcin; pectin; petroleum products (except aviation f u e l ); detergents; superphosphates; cement; tanned leather; amusement machines; blankets; woolen rugs; paper napkins and similar products; dry batteries; shaving lotion; and toothpaste. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and Customs are required on most imports shipped through ports other than Aqaba. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange license from the Central Bank. Exchange licenses are granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange license may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of Vio of 1 per cent is levied on exchange licenses for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institutions. Most imported commodities are subject to an import tax of 4 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable on the issue of the import license. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not requrc exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a mon th. With th is exception, all pay- ments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted up to certain limits: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign na t iona ls who in tend to re tu rn to their own countries; remittances to refugee dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jordan ian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordan ian residents trav- eling abroad; expenses for education; expenses for medi- cal trea tmen t; business expenses abroad; and insu rance payments in accordance w i th special regu la t ions. The exchange allowance for travel to Arab countries, Cyprus, and Turkey is the equ iva lent of JD 100 a person a trip, and that for travel to other countries is the equ iva lent of JD 16 a person a day for business travel and JD 12 a person a day for o ther travel ( h a lf of these amoun ts for children under 15) for trips of up to 30 days; each person may annua l ly make three business trips and two tourist trips. For fam i ly support, an annual a l lowance of between JD 600 and JD 1,200 for each donor is permitted; however, remittances by postal order may be made at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a mon th to any one person resident abroad and are not subject to the ceiling of JD 600-1,200. The policy in respect of paymen ts for invisibles is, in gen- eral, liberal and nond iscr im ina tory. Residents t rave l ing abroad may take out up to JD 100 in any comb ina t ion of Jo rdan ian and fo re ign notes and coins. Fur thermore, all trave lers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by au thor ized banks in Jo rdan in accordance w i th exchange permits authorized by the Cen tral Bank. Tourists and other nonres iden ts may also take out fo re ign cu r rency notes and coins and any other fo r e ign means of payment that they had previously b rought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodes ia are prohibited. Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be collected and the foreign exchange, inc lud ing sterling, Surrendered. Pro- JORDAN ceeds f rom exports to Arab League countries of agri- cultural products and locally manu fac tu red goods are exempt from the surrender requirement, except for the products of tobacco and cigarette factories, the phos- phate company, the dyeing and tann ing company, the cement plant, and the petroleum ref inery; also exempt are proceeds f rom exports to Iran of agricultural products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles (including sterling) must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if banknotes are received, to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jo rdan may bring in any amount in Jordan ian and foreign notes and coins.4 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resi- dent in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign cur- rency ( inc lud ing s te r l ing) at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capi- tal require approval and normally are not allowed. Current income resulting f rom nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, effective Octo- ber 16, 1972, profits f rom approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limitation, in the currency of the original investment or any other convertible currency approved by the Central Bank. Af ter two years repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in the same foreign currency in which the original investment was made. The Invest- ment Committee may approve more liberal provisions. All transactions under the investment law require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for num i sma t ic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for impor ts of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry are issued by the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy on the recommenda t ion of the Cen- t ral Bank, wh i le expo r ts of gold in any fo rm other th an jewe l ry requ ire a license from the Central Bank. Licenses are not norma l ly gran ted except for impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities and indus t r ial users. The Cen tral Bank has issued four gold coins under the Gold and Silver Coins Regulation No. 61 of 1968; these coins, a l though legal tender, do not c ircu la te and are available only to nonres iden ts and domestic numismatists. 4 No approval is given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equiva- lent in foreign currency. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Changes during 1972 February 15. The penalty on impor ts shipped by sea but not via the port of Aqaba was reduced f rom 20 per cent to 10 per cent for frozen poultry, eggs, cheese, and bu t ter (not canned ). For all other items the penalty of 20 per cent rema ined unchanged. May 8. The par va lue was changed f rom 2.48828 to 2.29184 grams of fine gold per Jordan d inar. The new par value corresponded to the previous central rate of JD 1 = US$2.80. Jordan continued to avail itself of wider margins. June 23. Jordan ceased to be a Scheduled Ter- ritory of the Sterling Area. Subsequently, the system of nonresident accounts was reorganized and the pre- scription of currency rules were revised. June 23. The Central Bank suspended its quotations for sterling. They were resumed on June 27. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at JD 1 = US$2.80. August 9. It was announced that a tax of 12 per cent wou ld be levied on all goods originating in the West Bank of Jordan, with effect f rom November 1. October 16. A new Law for the Encouragement of Investment was approved and published in the Official Gazette. It replaced the law of January 16, 1967. November 26. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1973 Jordanian citizens would be allowed to visit their relatives in the West Bank only once every two years. They would not be able to take out more than JD 50 in domestic currency on such trips. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.114592 gram of fine gold per Kenya Sh i l l ing, corresponding to K Sh 7.75509 = SDR 1 or K Sh 7.14286 = US$1, and Kenya avails itself of wider marg ins. The Central Bank of Kenya deals w i th the Gove rnment and w i th authorized banks in Tanzan ia sh i l l ings and Uganda shillings against Kenya shillings at par; the authorized banks also deal with the pub l ic in these currencies at par .1 In t ransac t ions with authorized banks, the Cen tral Bank of Kenya stands ready to issue Kenya shillings in exchange for U. S. dollars and to supp ly U. S. dollars in exchange for Kenya shillings; its buy ing and selling rates are K Sh 7.1407 and K Sh 7.1474 per US$1. The Central Bank deals w i th the Government in pounds sterling on the basis of the daily opening rates for sterling in New York. The Central Bank does not deal in fore ign currencies - other th an sterling, U. S. dollars, and deutsche m a rk, except occasionally on behalf of the Gov- ernmen t. Banks in Kenya base th e ir rates for such foreign currencies on the cu r rent market rates in New Yo rk. The Cen tral Bank deals fo rwa rd in sterling and U. S. dollars with commercial banks, to cover their contracts w i th exporters on ly; traders' fo rwa rd exchange contracts requ ire Cen t ral Bank approval when they exceed three mon ths. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Central Bank of Kenya. Au thor i ty for approving normal impo rt paymen t s, m a ny paymen ts in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda is delegated to the author- ized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for foreign exchange allocation permits for imports also must be submitted to the Director of Trade and Supplies, who forwards these to the Central Bank. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd., has a * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the par value was changed with effect f rom February 19, 1973 to 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Kenya shilling, corresponding to K Sh 8.61675 — SDR 1. The effec- tive pa r i ty relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at K Sh 7.14286 = US$1. The relationship to the Tanzania shilling and the Uganda shilling also remained unchanged. 1 All dealings in Tanzania and Uganda banknotes are suspended. - All currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the East African shilling. monopoly over the import of specified commodities and the export of certain agr icu l tural commodities is controlled by State Ma rke t ing Boards. Together with Tanzan ia and Uganda, Kenya is part of the East African currency area. Paymen ts from Kenya to Tanzania and Uganda are free of restrictions, but the export or import of Kenya bankno tes is pro- h ib i ted. Prescription of Currency Kenya is a member of the Sterling Area, although it no longer is a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Settlements with Tanzania and Uganda normally are effected in East Afr ican currency.3 Payments to residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda (except Rhodesia and South Afr ica) may be made in sterling to an Ex ternal Account in the United Kingdom, in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya, or in any other foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Receipts from countries other than Tanzania, Uganda, and Rho- desia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the Un i ted Kingdom, in Kenya shillings f rom an External Account in Kenya, or in any other specified currency.4 Special regulations apply to settle- ments with Rhodesia; all payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Remittances to South Africa also are prohibited, with the exception of those of pen- sions payable by the Government of Kenya or by the East A f r ican Commun i ty organizations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other than Tanzania, Uganda, or Rhodesia with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited free ly with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any currency (other than East African or Rhodesian currency) and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South Africa or Rhodesia) 3 East African currency comprises Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. 4 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the East African shilling. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Kenyan Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in K e n y a ;5 the redemption proceeds of these securities, which must have a life of five years at the time of acquisition, are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; imports of certain other goods are not being licensed. All imports f rom metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With certain exceptions, imports from Tanzania and Uganda are unrestricted, but many goods imported from these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzanian or Ugandan origin. Specific import licenses are required for all commodities origi- nating in Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Romania, or North Viet-Nam. Many goods may be freely imported from other sources under open general license, but others require a specific license. A number of commodi- ties may be imported only by or to the order of the Kenya National Trading Corporation. With minor exceptions, all private sector imports from countries other than Tanzania and Uganda require a foreign exchange allocation license issued by the Central Bank when their invoice value exceeds K Sh 2,000; applications must be submitted before firm orders are placed. In addition to the open general license for imports, there are five commodity lists for imports. For goods in Schedule A, specific import licenses, as well as exchange allocation licenses, are granted freely. For goods in Schedule B, no import licenses are issued. For goods in Schedule C, an exchange allocation permit is required in addition to a specific license. Goods in Schedules D and E are on open general license, but for those in Schedule D an exchange allocation permit is required and for those in Schedule E no foreign exchange is being allocated. Allocations in 1972 under Schedules C and D were about 75 per cent of each importer's average import bill for 1970 and 1971 for each S.I.T.C. Code category. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained, authorized banks provide exchange auto- matically for goods in Schedule A and for all goods under open general license that are not included in Schedules D and E; for all of these items, advance payment up to six months before delivery is permitted. For those in Schedules C and D, advance payment is not normally permitted. 5 Such securities must be payable in East African currency and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years f rom the date of acqu is i t ion. 284 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of cur- rent payments without limitation or up to established limits; amounts above these limits as well as other cur- rent payments may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in fact unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda who come to work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self- employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to 33% per cent of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 3,000 a mon th; in addition, they may remit funds to cover fam i ly maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years in the Scheduled Territories6 may continue to effect remit- tances from salaries as above, but those who avail themselves of the facilities for remittance of savings from salaries are not entitled to exchange facilities upon emigration. Remittances to South A f r ica, other than those of certain pensions, are prohibited. The transfer of rents and dividends derived in whole or in part from property in Kenya owned by a nonresident is restricted. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in fore ign banknotes.7 Holders of one-way tickets are entitled to a basic travel allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and K Sh 1,000 for children. The basic allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia or South Afr ica. Travelers are not permitted to take out domestic currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foods tuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Kenya. Exports of tea, certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. 6 Kenya's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Terri- tories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 7 Banks are not permitted, w i thout specific approval, to sell exchange in excess of K Sh 200 a day (subject to a maximum of K Sh 3,000 for a stay of not less than 15 days) for travel to Burund i, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Zaire, and Zambia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses for some commodities are required only for destinations other than Tanzania or Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. Exports of coffee are made through the intermediary of the Coffee Marketing Board. All exports to metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be col- lected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Kenya shillings.8 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 4) must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes, w i th the exception that the import of Tanzania or Uganda shilling notes is not permitted. The import of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The import of East A f r ican sh i l l ing notes also is prohibited. Capital Capital t ran s fe rs to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are restricted. Transfers to Rhodesia or South Africa are not allowed. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings from salaries, persons leaving Kenya per- manently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of K Sh 50,000 for each fam i ly un it if they take up residence in a country outside the Scheduled Territories; they may additionally every 12 months thereafter, dur- ing a period of five years, apply for the release of K Sh 20,000 from their Blocked Accounts. All remain- ing funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved Scheduled Terri- tory securities, and redemption proceeds become transferab le, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Kenya, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requ ires app roval under the East Afr ican L icens ing Or- d inance. Local borrow ing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled companies requires exchange control approval and is subject to a ceiling. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manne r. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must norma l ly be 8 There are m inor exemptions w i th respect to Ethiopian dollars and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. KENYA credited to a Blocked Account. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania and Uganda by residents are not nor- mally permitted. A resident of Kenya may not send as a cash gift to a country other than Tanzania or Uganda more than K Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. The import of the following from all sources other than Tanzania and Uganda, and f rom Tanzania and Uganda when originat- ing in other countries is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued freely; those for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively, while imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes during 1972 January 6. Measures were announced by Exchange Control Circular No. 1/1972 to restrict imports by the introduction of foreign exchange allocation permits. Advance import payments also were further restricted. The regulations would affect mainly consumer goods and some locally produced goods. No exchange would be allocated for items which could be produced locally and a range of nonessentials. For other specified imports, foreign exchange allocation permits would be granted for amounts up to 50 per cent of average indi- vidual import bills in 1970 and 1971 for each S.I.T.C. category. Advance payment for the latter goods would be approved only under exceptional circumstances. The open general license for imports was maintained, and there was no reclassification of goods from open general license to specific import license or vice versa, but five commodity lists were published, subject to the fo l low ing arrangements. For goods in Schedule A, specific import licenses, which would be issued freely, were required, and for- eign exchange would be issued freely against those licenses. For goods in Schedule B, no import licenses would be issued, and those already issued were declared invalid with effect f rom December 17, 1971. For goods in Schedule C, an exchange allocation permit was required in addition to a specific import license. Goods in Schedules D and E remained under open general license, but for those in Schedule D an exchange allo- cation permit was required and for those in Schedule E 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA no fore ign exchange would be allocated. Authorized banks would continue to provide exchange automatically only for (1) goods in Schedule A and (2) all goods under open general license that were not specified in Schedules D and E. The number of prohibited imports went up f rom 90 to 152 (129 in Schedule B and 23 in Schedule E ). Allocations under Schedules C and D were initially set at 50 per cent of each importer's average import bill for 1970 and 1971 for each S.I.T.C. Code category. They were later increased to 75 per cent. Advance payment for imports, previously permitted up to six mon ths before delivery for all imports, would still be freely allowed for goods on Schedule A and those open general license items not included in Schedules D and E; for goods in Schedules C and D advance payment would be approved only in very exceptional cases and only a f ter the exchange allocation permit had been granted. The new requirements were made applicable to shipments af ter February 15, 1972 or such later date as provided for in a letter of credit already established when the regulations were announced. February 1. The requirement imposed on Decem- ber 16, 1971 that commercial banks maintain certain cash balances (a 5 per cent m in imum deposit against their net deposit liabilities) with the Central Bank (in addition to the required liquidity ra t io) was rescinded. The restrictions on credit to importers of consumer goods and the volume of installment purchase finance, introduced on July 26, 1971, were maintained. Com- mercial banks were informed that the additional avail- able credit must not be directed to the financing of imports, but must be used to increase advances generally to Africans, more particularly to those engaged in business and agricultural undertakings. March 15. The schedule of imports requiring specific import licenses and which could be imported only by the Kenya National Trading Corporation, was extended to cover tires and tubes of all kinds. April 14. Banks were requested to adopt a par- ticularly restrictive attitude toward loans and advances to importers of finished goods of luxury types, such as consumer durables and motorcars. The new level of importers' overdraft limits should come to bear an appropriate business relationship to their quotas for imports. May 8. The delegated authority allowing banks to approve applications for exchange for business travel was limited to (a) one application a year from each business firm or company engaged in the export busi- ness and (b) one application every two years from each firm or company engaged in the import business. Authorized banks could grant the equivalent of K Sh 450 a day for travel to the United States and Canada, and K Sh 300 a day for travel to all other countries outside the Scheduled Territories, subject in both cases to a limit of 25 days. Applications for exchange for any additional business trips had to be directed to the Central Bank. May 10. Restrictions were introduced on remittances of the proceeds of bequests to nonresident beneficiaries by persons who die as residents of Kenya. Hence- fo r th such beneficiaries could receive a max imum of K Sh 100,000 in five annual installments of K Sh 20,000. Furthermore, where some capital of the deceased's estate was held outside Kenya at the time of his death, the beneficiary was required to receive first the capital held abroad, and could withdraw the capital held in Kenya to make up only the deficit by which the capital held outside Kenya fe ll short of the permitted max imum. The balance in excess of K Sh 100,000 of an inheritance remained blocked and could be remitted only if the funds were invested in prescribed Kenyan Government bonds with a life to ma tur i ty of at least five years. Previously, the non- resident beneficiary could transfer at once all the capital left to him by the deceased. June 23. Kenya ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. Following the floating of sterling, Kenya maintained its par value in terms of gold. As a result, the Kenya shilling began to appreciate in terms of sterling. July 31. The buying and confirming commission in respect of imports into Kenya no longer was approved for remittance overseas when it exceeded 3 per cent. August 30. The Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts were merged into the External Accounts. The prescrip- tion of currency regulations were revised accordingly. December 1. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1973 all imports had to be inspected before shipment, as a measure against overinvoicing. December 1. With minor exceptions, all private sector imports valued at over K Sh 2,000 required exchange control approval. Imports originating in Tanzania or Uganda were exempt. December 31. The tariff preferences for goods of U. K. origin were terminated. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System No par va lue for the currency of the Khmer Repub- lic, the riel, has been agreed with the Fund. The exchange rate structure comprises a basic exchange rate and a preferen t ial rate. The basic or general rate for sales of foreign exchange is set twice weekly by the National Bank of Cambodia ( the central b a n k) in an exchange market referred to as "the new exchange marke t ," in the light of market conditions; on Decem- ber 31, 1972 the basic rate was KR 187 per US$1, selling; the National Bank buys foreign exchange at a rate 0.4 per cent below the selling rate. The preferen- tial exchange rate is applicable only to aid imports and related services procured direct from donor countries (o ther than imports under U. S. P.L. 480 ); on Decem- ber 31, 1972 the preferential rate was KR 131 per US$1. The appreciation of the preferential rate in terms of the basic rate is not permitted to exceed 30 per cent. An effective exchange rate of KR 55 = US$1 results from the payment of a subsidy on the basic rate and is applicable to government transfers to Khmer dip- lomatic, consular, and religious missions abroad and to transfers by students for the purchase of text books. On the supply side of the market all export proceeds and other foreign exchange receipts are subject to compulsory surrender. In addition to these receipts the market is also supplied with foreign exchange under certain aid programs. Exchange earnings from all permissible exports are channeled through the com- mercial banks to be converted at the exchange rate established by the National Bank for any given market day; commercial banks must sell all export proceeds to the National Bank through the foreign exchange market without delay. On the demand side, foreign exchange is purchased by commercial banks to finance all imports except for those that are either financed under the U. S. Commercial Import Program and Pub- lic Law 480 Programs or are made sans devises; in addition, all permissible payments for invisibles and capital are channeled through this market. Participation in the market is limited to authorized commercial banks which buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions w i th the National Bank; they act on behalf of customers only and are not allowed to main- ta in foreign exchange balances for trade purposes, except as these may arise in connection with their normal operations. Foreign exchange transactions of the Government and its departments and agencies are subject to the same conditions as transactions of the private sector, but are generally channeled through the National Bank. The National Bank of Cambodia maintains official quotations for 13 currencies. l These quotations all pro- vide for a spread of 0.4 per cent between the buy ing and selling ra te expressed in riels. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Na t ional Exchange Office, an autonomous agency within the National Bank; this office is empowered to authorize all operations related to settlements with foreign coun- tries, to foreign investments, and to nonresident accounts. The Ministry of Commerce is in charge of the administration of import and export controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th five countries w i th wh ich the Khmer Republic has b i la teral paymen ts arrangements are made through b i la teral accounts. Those ma in ta ined for Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, and the U. S. S. R. are denominated in pounds sterling, and those for Bul- garia and Poland in U. S. dollars. Settlements with other countries take place in convertible currencies. Foreign inves tmen ts must be made in a currency acceptable to the Na t ional Bank. Profits on, and pro- ceeds from the liquidation of, foreign investments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the inves tment was made. Nonresident Accounts The following categories of account may be ma in- tained for nonresidents: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Khmer nationals stay- ing abroad temporarily but not recognized as nonresi- dents, and fore igners staying in the Khmer Republic but not recognized as residents, may maintain Internal Accounts of Nonresidents. There are separate regula- tions concerning nonresident accounts that may be used to finance transactions in the free trade area of Kompong-Som. Foreigners' Accounts in Riels may be opened, with- out permission, for foreigners residing outside the Khmer Republic. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale on the Phnom Penh exchange market of the currency (but not bank- notes) of the country of the account holder; (2) pay- ments for authorized imports (including incidental expenses) from the country of the account holder; (3) earnings on investments in the Khmer Republic and receipts from repayments on Khmer stocks and bonds and on other investments made in the Khmer Republic 1 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC after May 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the acounts. These accounts may be freely debited for normal expenses in the Khmer Repub- lic and, provided that it is quoted on the Phnom Penh market, for purchases of the currency of the country of the account holder (except in the form of bank- notes). Transfers between Foreigners' Accounts in Riels related to the same country may be made freely. Capital Accounts may be opened without permission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from the sale in the Khmer Republic of Khmer stocks and bonds; (2) proceeds from the sale in the Khmer Republic of participations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; (3) contractual or advance repayments of Khmer stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds from the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or businesses located in the Khmer Republic and in the possession of a nonresident since before January 1, 1955 or acquired by him at a later date either through inheritance or with the permission of the National Exchange Office; (5) repayment of loans granted to residents prior to Janu- ary 1, 1955, or after that date with the approval of the National Exchange Office; and (6) transfers from another capital account related to the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses of the account holder or his fam i ly up to KR 1,000 a person a day, and up to a maximum of KR 50,000 monthly, and (2) expenses connected w i th the administration of foreign assets in the Khmer Republic (stocks and bonds, buildings, land, etc.). Subject to authorization from the National Exchange Office, these accounts may be debited for (1) purchases in the Khmer Republic of Khmer stocks and bonds; (2) subscriptions to, or increases in the capi- tal of, a Khmer firm; (3) purchases through an author- ized notary of title to real estate or businesses located in the Khmer Republic; (4) loans in riels to residents; (5) transfers to another capital account related to the coun try of the account holder; (6) living expenses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder's employees if the account is held by a firm (corporation, bank, etc.); and (7) g i f ts to individuals and to social, cultural, and religious associations. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely debited for (1) taxes in the Khmer Republic, (2) miscellaneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and (3) l iv ing expenses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder and his fam i ly. They may freely be credited with the proceeds f rom foreign currency sold on the Phnom Penh market and w i th interest on funds held in the account con- cerned. All other operations through these accounts are subject to individual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon au tho r iza t ion. They may be freely credited with foreign exchange transferred f rom abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts (1) to cover 288 expenses abroad, such as those related to travel, mis- sions, and the purchase of foreign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any kind in the Khmer Repub- lic by converting balances on these accounts into riels on the Phnom Penh exchange market. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon authorization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers abroad. The accounts may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange on the Phnom Penh market; (2) transfers from Foreigners' Accounts in Riels; (3) wages, salaries, allowances, and payments for expenses of Khmer nationals employed by Khmer firms and tem- porarily residing abroad; (4) income earned in the Khmer Republic by account holders; (5) redeposits of previous withdrawals; and (6) repayment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder or his family, (2) administrative expenses related to the account holder's property in the Khmer Republic, and (3) loans to residents. All other operations through these accounts require authorization. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain commodities is prohibited for reasons of health or security and that of certain other goods for protective reasons. In view of the availability of substantial amounts of commercial aid resources, several important import commodities have been placed on an "exclusive list"; their importation is permitted only against commercial aid financing. The list includes tobacco leaves, cotton fibers, certain vegetable oils, wheat flour, and cotton thread under the U. S. P.L. 480 program, and some foodstuffs, rubber and rubber prod- ucts, petroleum, chemicals, timber and paper products, iron and steel, metals, cars and trucks, and U. S. equip- ment in general, under the U. S. Commercial Import Program (CIP). For all other permissible imports, including those eligible for CIP financing that are not on the "exclusive list," cash foreign exchange resources are provided without restrictions; they are referred to as general imports. General imports of up to US$500 for each ship- ment may be made freely when no foreign exchange purchase is involved (sans devises) and the goods are not intended for resale. All imports financed by foreign exchange purchases in the exchange market must be settled against irrevocable letters of credit opened by the commercial banks. Importers are required to submit their requests for purchases of foreign exchange to the commercial banks, accompanied by a payment in riels equal to the cost of the foreign exchange requested, calculated at the latest quotation for the currency con- cerned. A supplementary deposit in riels, the amount of which is varied from time to time, is also required; at the end of 1972 the supplementary deposit required was equivalent to 200 per cent of the cost of the for- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution eign exchange involved. Certain government agencies are exempt from the supplementary deposit require- ment. In their requests for exchange importers must state the most depreciated exchange rate they are pre- pared to pay. Twice weekly the National Bank con- siders the applications received and sets its selling rate. An importer's application is met in full at the current selling rate if his bid specified that rate or a less appre- ciated rate; if he has indicated a more appreciated rate than the one actually established, he will not be able to obtain exchange and his deposit is refunded. The supplementary deposits of successful bidders are refunded when the shipping documents are taken up at the bank where the letter of credit was opened. In order to facilitate the efficient utilization of avail- able commercial aid resources, preferential local cur- rency payment facilities have been extended to importers who are willing to finance imports through aid. The local currency cost of CIP imports is settled as follows: (1) in the case of purchases from the United States or from "Code 941" countries,2 the importer must pay 10 per cent of the import value in riels at the time the import application is approved by SONEXIM (Societe Nationale d'Exportation et d'lm- por ta t ion), 15 per cent at the time the order is placed, and the remainder at the time of the presentation of documents by the commercial bank; (2) where SONEXIM is buying directly from "Code 941" coun- tries, the importer must pay 25 per cent of the import value in riels at the time of delivery of the import certificate by SONEXIM and the remainder at the time of presentation of documents by the commercial bank. The 75 per cent due on presentation of the documents may be financed by commercial bank credits. In the case of imports from the United States, the credits are extended for a period of four months, while two-month credits are available for CIP imports f rom third countries. A preferential interest rate of 5 per cent is charged on these loans. Each importer is required to obtain an import busi- ness license. Importers are permitted to trade with for- eign countries only if they have assumed corporate s ta tus (societes anonymes). The equity cap i tal of such corporations should be at least KR 5 million; 51 per cent of the equity should be held by Khmer nationals and one third of board membership should be Khmer. Upon completion of the import transac t ion, import- ers are required to subm it proof that the foreign exchange has ac tua l ly been used to finance imports, and that the goods have arr ived and have been cleared th rough customs w i th f u ll payment of import du ty and other levies. Payments for Invisibles Importers include an estimate of the freight and insurance component of the cost of imports in their 2 Certain developing countries in Asia. KHMER REPUBLIC bids for foreign exchange for imports. If actual freight and insurance costs exceed the estimate, a separate bid for the additional amount must be submitted. Foreign exchange for freight and insurance for imports under U. S. P.L. 480 is also purchased on the "new exchange market." All other payments for invisibles require indi- vidual authorization, and only those transactions explicitly mentioned in the exchange control regulations are permitted. A foreigner working in the Khmer Republic and receiving a monthly salary exceeding KR 5,000 in Phnom Penh, or KR 3,500 in the provinces, may in principle t ran s fer up to 30 per cent of his net monthly salary —after payment of taxes —plus 15 per cent of his mon th ly salary if a dependent w i fe stays abroad, plus an additional 10 per cent if dependent children, parents, or grandparents stay abroad. (The additional percentage of transferab le income is 2 per cent for each legitimate child or dependent parent or grand- parent, with a max imum of 10 per cent of the net monthly income for each family .) Such transfers may not exceed the equivalent of KR 20,000 a worker a mon th. Transfer facilities are not granted for salaries and wages exempt from income tax. Overtime pay is considered transferable income only when it is received in payment for courses given in public educational insti- tutions. Women of foreign nationality married to Khmer nationals and work ing in the private sector are not permitted to transfer savings from salaries or wages to their country of origin. Foreign landlords domiciled in the Khmer Republic may t rans fer up to 30 per cent of the taxable portion of their income from rent, provided that the rent exceeds KR 5,000 for landlords living in Phnom Penh or KR 3,500 for landlords l iv ing in the provinces. For- eign landlords living abroad may t rans fer up to 20 per cent of the taxable portion of rent. Foreigners residing in the Khmer Republic, when leaving the coun try permanently, are permitted to transfer abroad, up to prescribed limits, savings out of their salaries earned in the Khmer Republic, provided that the savings have been regularly deposited with an authorized bank in the Khmer Republic. The transfer of the fu ll net profits f rom nonresident inves tmen ts made prior to May 31, 1956 is authorized, sub ject to proof that the inves tment was made with foreign currency other than the former Indo-Chinese piastre; otherwise, the t rans fer of profits on pre-1956 inves tmen ts is limited to 80 per cent and is permitted only if the inves tment is recognized as useful to the economic development of the Khmer Republic. Net profits that do not exceed 20 per cent of foreign investments made a f ter May 31, 1956 may be trans- ferred annua l ly. Khmer nationals s tudy ing abroad may receive monthly exchange allocations equivalent to up to US$108 for . Asian countries and up to US$ 126 for any other country, in addition to ins ta l la t ion, holiday, and cloth- 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC ing allowances. The allocation of foreign exchange for tour ist travel and business travel has been suspended. The export of Khmer cu r rency is prohibited and fo re ign tou r i s ts requ i re special au tho r iza t ion to recon- vert r ie ls i n to fo re ign cu r rency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must obtain a n n u al registration licenses f rom the Ministry of Finance. Exports are classified into three groups: a prohibited list, a licensing list, and a f ree list. Prohibited exports comprise ma in ly goods whose exports have been banned for social and political reasons, while the purpose of the licensing list is to avoid shortages of supplies needed for domestic use. The exportation of rice and precious stones is reserved for state monopolies. All other commodities may be f ree ly exported, provided that the transactions are arranged through a commercial bank, which must issue an export certificate for each shipment. A Committee on Export Price Quotations sets weekly minimum export prices. A preferential interest rate of 10 per cent is available for export financing. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Approved hotels, airlines, and other organizations authorized to receive payment in foreign exchange are required to keep adequate records of such transactions and to surrender all receipts to the commercial banks at least once weekly. The import of Khmer currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require ind iv idual licenses. No t ran s fer abroad of proceeds f rom the sale of property by a foreigner to a foreigner is permitted. Foreigners who sell their property to Khmer nationals and leave the Khmer Republic permanen t ly may transfer initially up to 20 per cent of the proceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the remainder may be authorized for transfer annually, when the total amount involved is small. Funds representing the repayment of loans origi- na l ly granted in foreign currency may be considered transferable income. Since May 31, 1956, all foreign investments have been subject to authorization from the Ministry of Finance, which requires that a certain percentage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Khmer participation and that its employees should be Khmer nationals. Only investments for the creation of activities recognized as useful to the economic develop- ment of the country and not involving monopoly or special privilege may be authorized. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of authorized investments made af ter May 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly installments not exceeding 20 per cent of the total investment. Up to 10 per cent of the proceeds from the liquidation of 290 investment made prior to May 31, 1956 may be author- ized for t ran s fer every year. Foreign capital invested a f ter May 31, 1956 is guar- anteed the same tax trea tment that is applied to resident inves tmen ts; in addition, special incentives (partial exemption f rom duties and taxes on reinvested profits, and on equipment goods or raw ma ter ia ls imported dur- ing the first year of ope ra t ion) may be accorded to for- eign investment considered as excep t iona l ly u se ful to the Khmer economy. There is a guaran tee of 10-30 years against risks of na t iona l iza t ion or expropriation, and for a just and equ i tab le ind emn i ty in the event of na t iona l iza t ion or exp rop r ia t ion of inves tmen ts. Gold Residents may ho ld and acqu ire gold coins in the Khmer Repub l ic for num isma t ic purposes. W i th this exception, residents o ther t h an the mone tary authorities, SONEXIM, and authorized indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any fo rm other th an jewe lry require au thor iza- t ion by the Na t ional Bank; such au thor iza t ion is not no rma l ly gran ted except for imports and exports by or on beha lf of the mone tary au tho r i t ies and SONEXIM. Changes during 1972 January 17. A preferen t ial exchange rate was estab- lished for aid imports and related services procured directly f rom donor countries (excluding imports under U .S. P.L. 480). The preferential rate was to d i f fer from the principal exchange rate by no more than 25 per cent; the preferential rate was initially set at KR 90 = US$1, and the principal rate at KR 120 = US$1. (Previously, a un i tary exchange rate of KR 130 - US$1 had been applied.) January 17. The general rate of turnover tax on imports was reduced from 18 per cent to 5 per cent. February 21. A preferential interest rate of 5 per cent was introduced for the financing of imports under the U. S. Commercial Import Program (C IP ). March 1. An Exchange Support Fund was established as an independent unit within the National Bank. March 2. The maximum permitted difference between the preferential rate and the principal rate was increased to 30 per cent. The preferential rate was set at KR 91 = US$1, the principal rate at KR 130 = US$1. June 23. The riel deposit required with importers' bids for foreign exchange was increased from 20 per cent to 100 per cent of the value of the foreign exchange requested, calculated at the most recent quo- tation for the currency concerned. June 23. A large number of import commodities were added to the exclusive CIP list. June 27. Sales of foreign exchange for imports were suspended. They were resumed on July 17. July 17. The value limit on sans devises imports was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution increased from US$300 to US$500 a shipment. Such imports henceforth required an import certificate made out by an authorized bank. August 10. A supp lemen tary deposit in riels of 100 per cent was required with bids for fore ign exchange for imports, to be re funded when the shipping docu- ments were taken up at the bank issuing the letter of credit. On November 30 the supplementary deposit was increased to 300 per cent, and on December 25 it was reduced to 200 per cent. December 5. The Japanese yen was quoted by the National Bank. December 21. The duration of the Exchange Sup- port Fund was extended until the end of 1973. KHMER REPUBLIC 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Exchange Rate System * No par value for the Korean Won has been estab- lished with the Fund. Since March 22, 1965 there has been a fluctuating exchange rate determined in an exchange certificate market. On December 30, 1972 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U. S. dollar were W 398.40 and W 399.40, respec- tively, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 398.10 and W 399.70, respectively. Exchange certificates valid for 45 days are issued by the foreign exchange banks against all foreign exchange earnings in prescribed currencies surrendered by residents. All foreign exchange proceeds, however, may alternatively be exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the foreign exchange banks. Exchange certificates are in principle required for all foreign exchange expenditures except for payments for imports financed under U. S. aid programs, and payments by commercial banks in connection with their banking transactions, etc. There is a limited forward exchange market restricted to exporters covering their export earnings; the fore ign exchange banks may in tu rn cover their fo rwa rd transactions with exporters by engaging in such transactions abroad. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. It car- ries out policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes the above functions in part; it regulates operations in the certificate market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated authority to control receipts and payments related to invisibles. The Korea Exchange Bank, whose capital is wholly subscribed by the Government and the Bank of Korea, has taken over from the latter all its international banking and foreign exchange business. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The trade program for imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports financed by foreign grants and loans are programed separately by the Economic Planning Board in consul- tation with the M in is try of Commerce and Industry, and import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. do l lar was being deva lued, Korea ma in ta ined unchanged the exchange rate of US$1 = W 398.90. 292 Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. Korea has a bilat- eral payments agreement with Viet-Nam, but no clear- ing account has been established. An arrangement with Indonesia provides for certain settlements to be effected through escrow accounts, but the account has not been established and no transactions have taken place under this arrangement. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in pre- scribed currencies.1 The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Min- istry of Finance. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents and Korean workers abroad may main- tain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances from balances that have accrued from remuneration for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted from abroad). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate, and they may be debited for salary payments to foreign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents are permitted to hold time deposit accounts in U. S. dollars with the foreign exchange banks. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline and some insurance companies, may maintain current deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange banks. Companies registered to oper- ate in the Masan Free Export Zone may maintain cur- rent deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange bank w i th in the zone. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports requ ire licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods o r ig ina t ing in Cuba, ma in land China, Nor th Korea, or No r th Viet-Nam and for certain imports from all other countries. Imports are divided into three categories: those paid for w i th Korean foreign exchange (so-called KFX impo r ts ), those paid for with foreign 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution aid funds, and those financed by Japanese reparations (PAC impor ts). KFX imports are classified as auto- matic approval, restricted, or prohibited items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are in a list of restricted or prohibited commodi- ties. Automatic approval items (on December 31, 1972 these were 668 out of 1,312 basic items in the SITC classification) consist mainly of essential consumer goods not domestically produced and certain raw materials and capital goods.- Restricted items (571) in a negative list are subject to individual licenses. Pro- hibited items (73) are mainly luxury goods, items prohibited for reasons of public health or morals, and some domestically produced goods. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classifica- tion. Foreign aid imports are classified as either auto- matic approval items or restricted items. In principle, no commodities imported w i th foreign aid funds are included among the KFX imports, but in exceptional cases payment for imports usually financed with aid funds may be made with KFX exchange. For purposes of licensing imports from specified countries, the posi- tion of Korea's balance of trade with the country con- cerned is taken into account. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$300,000 of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits are required for most categories of imports by the private sector; these are met, for KFX imports, by deposit of exchange certificates and /or local currency at the time of applying for import licenses. The exchange certificate deposits are, in effect, advance pay- ments offset against the import settlement; the won equivalent of any amount of deposit in excess of the import settlement is repaid to the importer at the time of the release of the relative bill of lading. Imports by the private sector under U. S. aid programs are subject to prior won cash payments of part of the import set- tlement, and imports with Japanese Property and Claims Funds (PAC imports) are subject to prior payments of part of the import settlement in exchange certificates. Advance deposits for KFX imports range between 5 per cent and 200 per cent according to the nature of the import and the commercial terms of payment; the rates are 100-200 per cent for imports against sight letters of credit, 5 per cent to 40 per cent for docu- ments against acceptance ( D / A) imports, and 20 per cent to 60 per cent for imports on a documents against payment ( D / P) basis and bonded warehouse transac- tion (BWT) terms. Advance deposits for KFX imports 2 Some automatic approval items require the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry when imported from Japan. KOREA of raw materials for exports are 100 per cent, except for imports for stockpiling and documents against pay- ment and documents against acceptance imports, Which are subject to a 10 per cent advance deposit. Imports of equipment and facilities for export industries financed with domestic loans in foreign exchange are not subject to advance deposits; payment (in exchange certificates) of 10 per cent of the import value is required upon the release of bills of lading, with the balance of the pay- ment to be settled in accordance with the terms of the loan. The Ministry of Finance has authority to apply to any import commodity that it deems nonessential a special customs ta r i f f, which provides for an additional tax of 70 per cent or 90 per cent of the differential between estimated wholesale value of the commodity and import price plus normal profit. The authority has been invoked in respect of a number of commodities. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates administratively by up to 50 percentage points. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade transactions and for certain other items, such as bank- ing charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allocations for business travel. In addi- tion, exporters are authorized to use exchange earnings up to an amount of US$2,000 a month for the expenses of their overseas branches; the authorization is US$3,000 a month if exports to the country concerned exceed US$1 million and US$5,000 a month if exports to the coun try concerned exceed US$5 million. All residents departing for travel abroad may purchase for- eign exchange up to the equivalent of US$30 a day; they may purchase an additional US$100 for each trip for extra expenses. Students studying abroad may receive a mon th ly living allowance of up to US$300. Foreign and Korean currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresident foreigners need not register foreign exchange in specified currencies that they bring into Korea and, when departing, they may reconvert unused won notes into U. S. dollars up to US$200, subject to conf irma t ion of the original sale of exchange (up to US$50 w i thout such conf irma t ion). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Cuba, mainland China, North Korea, Rhodesia, and North Viet-Nam are prohibited, as are exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, platinum ores, wood charcoal, pulp, and waste paper) to all other countries. Certain exports require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an auto- matic approval procedure. The export proceeds in for- eign exchange must either be surrendered to a foreign 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA exchange bank at the market rate or be exchanged into equ iva lent fo re ign exchange certificates.^ Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived f rom invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank or be exchanged for equ iva lent exchange certificates. The import of Korean currency notes requires special authorization. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guaran- tee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law. No limits are placed on con- version and remittance of legitimate profits and divi- dends, and up to 20 per cent of the original capital invested plus any reinvestment may be repatriated each year, two years from the commencement of operations in Korea. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. By virtue of Law No. 233 of December 23, 1951 residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry consti- tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users, and there have been no imports or exports since 1965. The leading producer of gold, a government-owned company, may be required to sell gold to the Bank of Korea at US$38 an ounce. Otherwise, domestic produc- tion may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at public gold auctions was about W 881.06 a gram at the end of 1972. Changes during 1972 January 1. The foreign exchange budget for 1972 went into effect. It provided that import margin rates were to be raised; empowered the Minister of Finance, if necessary, to limit imports of items for domestic use; subjected government foreign currency expenditures to prior Cabinet approval; and announced various steps to reduce payments for invisibles. January 1. The trade program for the first half of 1972 went into fu ll effect. The program contained no changes on the import side. 3 With effect from Janua ry 16, 1973, traders with an a n n u al export performance of US$5 million or more were permitted to retain their export proceeds as foreign exchange deposits with Korean foreign exchange banks, for use for approved payments. 294 January 4. A five-year textile trade agreement with the Un i ted States was signed, effective retroactively f rom October 1, 1971. Korea would l im it the annual rates of growth of exports of synthetic and woolen tex- tiles to the Un i ted States to 7.5 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively. February 1. Exchange rates quoted by foreign exchange banks to customers hencefor th were set by these banks on the basis of demand and supp ly, and the Bank of Korea based its buy ing and selling rates on those posted by the fore ign exchange banks. February 10. Three export items, inc lud ing iron bars and billets, were sh if ted f rom the restricted category to the au toma t ic -app roval category. As a result, in the export sector, 218 SITC items were inc luded in the restricted list and 1,071 SITC items in the automatic- approval list. In the impo rt sector, 7 items w i th a 1970 import va lue of US$5.6 m i l l ion were t rans fe r red from the au toma t ic-approval to the restricted category, while one item with a 1970 import va lue of US$3.0 million was shifted in the reverse direction. As a result, in the import sector, 576 SITC items were included in the restricted list, 663 in the au toma t ic-approval list, and 73 in the prohibited list. February 11. Advance import deposit requirements were increased f rom 150 per cent to 200 per cent for import items subject to a customs du ty of 50 per cent or more and for nonessential or luxu ry items; from 30 per cent to 40 per cent for D /A imports; and from 50 per cent to 60 per cent for special imports on a D/P or BWT basis. February 19. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try announced that the D/A import ceiling for 1972 would be US$235 million, the same level as in 1971, of which US$80 million would be reserved for leading exporters. Traders would be permitted D/A imports up to 10 per cent of their exports in the previous year; for leading exporters this percentage would vary from 10-25 per cent depending on their export performance. Successful exporters would be allowed a special prefer- ence for up to US$10 million of D/A imports, while the Korea Export Promotion Company would be allowed to import US$3 million worth of any importa- ble goods. February 25. The Monetary Board established a new "Regulation for Financing Exports," thereby uni- fy ing and s imp l i fy ing the existing system for the financ- ing of exports. The ratio of export loans available per U. S. dollar was raised from W 295 to W 350 per U. S. dollar. The interest rate on bills for raw materials imported on a letter of credit basis for export process- ing was lowered f rom 9 per cent to 6 per cent per annum. February 29. The advance import deposit require- ment for the importation of raw materials for exports on a letter of credit basis was raised from 10-30 per ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cent to a un iform rate of 100 per cent; the advance import deposit rates for the import of raw materials for stockpiling and for impor ts on a D/A or D/P basis remained unchanged. March 2. The amount of won bankno tes that depart- ing non res ident fo re igne rs may convert in to U. S. dol- lars was increased f rom the e q u i v a l e nt of US$100 to US$200. March 3. The n um b er of i n d u s t r i al export items sub- ject to expo r t - impo rt l ink age a r r ang em en ts was in- creased f rom 37 to 48. March 10. Two i tems w i th a 1971 impo rt va lue of US$2.8 m i l l i on were sh i f t ed f r om the restricted cate- gory to the a u t om a t i c - a p p r o v al category. As a result, 73 SITC i tems were inc luded in the proh ib i ted import list, 574 in the restricted impo rt l is t, and 665 in the au tom a t i c - app rov al impo rt list. March 11. Foreign bank branches in Korea were requ ired to increase the ir opera t ing capital per branch in Korea f rom W 150 m i l l i on to W 400 m i l l ion, effec- t ive May 31, 1972. April 25. The 1972 impo rt quota for sugar was restored f rom about 150,000 tons to the 1971 level of about 230,000 tons. May 4. A 15 per cent import du ty was imposed on rice, wh ich p rev iou s ly was exempt f rom customs duty. May 30. Lub r ica t ing prepara t ions were shifted f rom the restricted impo rt category to the automatic-approval category, wh i le loose wool products were shifted in the opposite d irec t ion, resu l t ing in a net liberalization of US$1.2 m i l l ion (on the basis of 1971 import v a lu e s ). June 1. The trade p rog ram for the second half of 1972 went in to f u ll effect. The program contained no changes on the import side. August 3. A Presidential Decree outlining certain economic stabilization measures went into effect. The flexible exchange rate policy pursued during the first half of 1972 (when the exchange rate gradually moved f rom about W 373 to about W 400 per U. S. dollar) was suspended and the exchange rate maintained at the ex is t ing level of about W 400 per U. S. dollar. August 12. Synthetic rubber was transferred from the au toma t ic-approval impo rt category to the restricted category, wh i le bu i ld ing board was shifted in the oppo- site direction, resulting in a net deliberalization of US$3.8 m i l l ion (on the basis of 1971 import values). September 16. Three import items, including mould boxes for metal foundries and pig iron, were shifted to the automatic-approval import category from the restricted category, resulting in a net import liberaliza- tion of US$4.4 million (on the basis of 1971 import va lue s ). September 25. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try announced rules governing imports financed by a KOREA US$50 m i l l ion loan extended by the Japanese Govern- ment. October 1. The M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry announced ru les govern ing the allocation of quotas for the export of cotton produc ts to the United States. October 12. Criteria were announced for the induce- ment of fo re ign inve s tment in indu s t r ial projects; they gave p r io r i ty to expor t-or ien ted and impor t-subs t i tu te industries. In accordance w i th these criteria, foreign investment was acceptable in 209 l ines of activity, i.e., 138 export-oriented indu s t r i es and 71 import-substitute industries. The criteria p roh ib i ted fore ign investment in 29 indus tr ies regulated by law, such as cigarette and ginseng mak ing, and restricted fore ign investment in such fields as m in ing, airlines, ma r i t ime transportation, railroads, and electric power. November 30. The trade program for the first half of 1973 was announced. On the import side, one item was sh if ted f rom the au toma t ic-approval category and one item in the reverse direction, resulting in a net liberalization of US$148,000 (on the basis of 1971 import values). December 22. The Trade Transactions Law was f u r- ther amended to permit trade with additional commu- nist countries. (The January 1971 amendment had ma in ta ined the proh ib i t ion on trade w i th mainland China, Cuba, No r th Korea, and No r th Viet-Nam.) The new am endm ent came in to effect on J anu a ry 22, 1973. December 29. The foreign exchange budget for 1973 was adopted. It was based on three general principles: ( 1) the capacity to repay foreign debts was to be increased by balancing the supp ly and demand for for- eign exchange; (2) higher priority was to be given to the expansion of export industries; and ( 3) nonessential imports and paymen ts for invisibles were to be re- stricted, but not to the extent of obstructing the effi- cient supply of raw materials and of goods required for stable economic growth. Guidelines on the expendi- tures side inc luded: ( 1) an unchanged ceiling of US$235 million for D/A imports and one of US$480 million for imports on a shipper's usance basis; (2) importers would in principle be required to contract on an f.o.b. basis and use Korean-flag vessels; (3) the criteria for permission to travel abroad would be adjusted so as to reduce nonessential travel expendi- ture; (4) t rans fe rs of film rentals would not be per- mitted to exceed an amount fixed by the Minister of Finance; (5) agency commissions on imports and exports would not normally be allowed to exceed 5 per cent of the invoiced import or export value; and (6) so as to improve the foreign debt structure, certain bank loans and commercial loans were to be repaid ahead of schedule. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Exchange Rate System * The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Kuwaiti Dinar or KD 0.357143 = SDR 1, which cor- responds to KD 1 = US$3.04000. Kuwait does not avail itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Kuwait quotes daily buying and selling rates for sterling and U .S. dollars; on December 30, 1972 these were KD 0.76875 buying, and KD 0.76985 selling, respec- tively, for sterling, and KD 0.32750 buying, and KD 0.32800 selling, respectively, for U. S. dollars. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept formally the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell foreign cur- rencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa, however, are prohibited. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The limited control over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Administration of the Ministry of Finance and Oil. Prescription of Currency Kuwait has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. There are no prescription of currency requirements. All settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foods tuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a gen- eral license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. All imports from Israel, inc lud ing imports of Israeli manu fac tu re and those that contain Israeli materials or are manu fac tu red * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Kuwa it maintained the par value of its currency in terms of gold and availed itself of wider margins. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became KD 0.296053 = US$1. 296 by companies financed by Israeli capital, and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of a few items (mainly oxygen, cer- tain steel pipes, alcoholic beverages, and used trucks and buses not using gasoline for fuel and over ten years old) are prohibited f rom all sources. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaitis or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaitis own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commercial imports normally are limited to registered importers. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. There are no limitations on the export of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry are prohibited, and those of certain other items, such as sugar and fats, may be either licensed or prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. Exports of arms, ammunition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian cur- rency, or South African rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be dis- posed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or dis- posal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, or South African rand. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other bank- notes except Israel, Portuguese, Rhodesian, or South A f r ican currency. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwa i t, and a license is required for the establish- ment and operation of industries in Kuwait; except for petroleum companies, 51 per cent of ownership of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution new Kuwaiti companies must be held by Kuwaiti nationals. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents to other countries except Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. A number of international bond issues have been placed in Kuwait, some of which were denominated in Kuwaiti dinars. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-carat fine; gold jewelry, however, cannot be imported or sold unless it is prop- erly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their hold- ings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. KUWAIT Imports of gold in any form are exempt from all cus- toms duties and taxes. Changes during 1972 June 23. Kuwait ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 24. Following the floating of sterling, the par value in terms of gold was maintained and the Kuwaiti dinar was unpegged from sterling. (On June 28, the Central Bank began quoting daily buying and selling rates for sterling, as well as for the U. S. dollar.) The parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained at KD 1 - US$3.04000. July 18. Exchange control was abolished and the dual exchange market arrangements were terminated. Letters of recommendation and exchange permits ceased to be required. Dealings in the currencies of Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa continued to be prohibited. New definitions of residents and non- residents were provided. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Rate System * No par va lue for the Laotian Kip has been established with the Fund. The official exchange rate is K 600 = US$1. This rate applies to most imports, to government payments covered by the fore ign exchange budget for official transactions, to a few types of p r iva te sector paymen ts in respect of cu r rent invisibles, to the portion of export proceeds that must be surrendered, and to any proceeds f rom invisibles or capital vo lun ta r i ly sold to the bank ing system. An exchange ra te of K 840 per US$1 results f rom the application of an exchange tax of 40 per cent to the official rate. This rate is applicable to all outward payments not eligible for the official rate. The exchange market is supplied ma in ly by the Foreign Exchange Operations Fund (FEOF ), which sells to banks at K 605 = US$ 1. The commercial banks' selling rates are K 606 per US$1 for transactions eligible for the official rate and K 846 per US$1 for other trans- actions. Administration of Control FEOF sells and buys fo re ign exchange only in trans- actions with the four commercial banks and the Devel- opment Bank of Laos, which act for the account of their customers. The National Bank of Laos conducts foreign exchange transactions only with exporters mak- ing the obligatory surrender of export proceeds and with foreign embassies and international organizations; re- ceipts f rom these sources are used to meet the foreign exchange expenditures of the Laotian Government. The approval of the Exchange Control Commission (Com- mission d'Octroi des Devises fitrangeres or CODE) in the Ministry of Finance is required for purchases of ex- change by the public at the rate of K 600 = US$1; ex- change authorization for certain invisibles eligible for this rate is gran ted, however, by the Na t ional Office of Exchange in the M in is t ry of Finance, acting on behalf of CODE. The Foreign Trade Depar tment of the M in- istry of Economy issues export licenses and keeps an annual register of impor ters and exporters. Prescription of Currency No presecription of currency requ iremen ts are im- posed on receipts or payments, but the Na t ional Bank provides and accepts only U. S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral paymen ts agree- ment with the U. S. S. R. providing for payments to be made through a clearing account ma in ta ined in French francs as the un it of account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents other than foreign embassies and inter- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, Laos decided to ma in ta in the o f f ic ial ex- change ra te unchanged at K 600 = US$1. 298 na t ional organizations are not permitted to maintain ac- counts in fore ign currencies with authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be listed on the annual register of im- porters, for which a yearly registration fee has to be paid to the Government. Imports of charcoal, bricks, matches, rubber sandals, coffee, ice cream, soft drinks, detergents, oxygen, and plastic bags are prohibited, a l though they may be au thor ized when shortages arise. Financing at the official rate is also prohibited for a list of certain commodities deemed nonessential, namely, pe r fumes, l u x u ry cars, a lcoho l ic beverages, cigarettes, p lay ing cards, cosmetics, and electronic app l iances; this list may be ex tended by the exchange control authori- ties. Letters of credit must be opened w i th the com- mercial banks for all import transac t ions exceeding US$1,000. Import transac t ions at the official rate are subject to exchange control approval. To apply for this approval, the importer is required to complete an exchange con- trol form obtainable f rom the banks, which are to for- ward the fo rm to the CODE. The latter applies various criteria in deciding on exchange applications, including the applicant's compliance with prevailing requirements regarding letters of credit, advance import deposits, pay- ment of import duties, appropr ia te use of previous ex- change purchases, and the essentiality of the import. Import transac t ions for which no exchange is granted at the official ra te may be free ly made at the rate of K 8 40 = US$1. On being no t if ied that exchange approval will be granted the importer must w i th in seven days make an ad- vance import deposit in kip at the Treasury. The ad- vance deposit requirement is 40 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue for imports f rom the Repub l ic of Ch ina, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Thailand, and 30 per cent of im- ports f rom all other sources. The CODE requires evi- dence of payment of this deposit be fo re fo rwa rd ing the exchange au tho r iza t ion fo rm to the commercial bank. Before the deposits can be re turned by the Treasury, the importer must show proof, inc lud ing customs evidence, that the goods have arrived in Laos, that they have been properly priced, and that the transaction has generally conformed w i th the prevailing regulations on imports. Raw material imports by export indus tr ies and by firms benefiting f rom investment incentives are exempt f rom advance import deposit requirements. For customs va lua t ion purposes, the exchange ra te used for all imports is K 600 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles other than expenses for medi- cal treatment abroad, expenses of nonscholarship stu- dents, and profit remittances by companies benef i t ing under the foreign investment law are subject to the 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution per cent exchange tax. Paymen ts eligible for the official rate are subject to exchange con trol approval by the CODE and most are restricted. Paymen ts for all inv is i- bles, however, may be made f ree ly, prov ided that the 40 per cent exchange tax is paid. In all cases, app l i- cants for exchange for cu r rent inv is ib les are required to comp le te fo rms ind ica t ing the ir iden t i ty as well as the in tended use of the desired fore ign exchange. There is a fore ign exchange budget de ta i l ing the Gove rnmen t 's paymen ts in fo re ign exchange du r ing the fiscal yea r; for such p aym en ts the N a t ion al Bank of Laos makes exchange available at the off ic ial rate. There are no regu la t ions l im i t i ng the export of domes t ic or fo re ign bankno tes by t rave le r s. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters mu st pay an a n n u al registration fee to the Gov e rnm en t. Expor ts of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au- thorities. A ll o ther expor ts are subject to au tho r iza t ion, but licenses are au toma t ica l ly issued. Eighty per cent of proceeds f rom all exports must be surrendered to the Na t ional Bank in U. S. dollars, French francs, or pounds s te r l ing at the off ic ial ra te; the rema inder may be kept abroad or used free ly. Exporters are required to deposit with the National Bank, prior to domiciling the export license w i th th is Bank, the portion of their antic- ipated export proceeds that is subject to surrender; the Na t ional Exchange Office gives its visa only on export licenses that have been annotated by the National Bank to show that this requ irement has been complied with. An exporter may, however, be permitted to make a prior surrender of only 40 per cent of export value, the rema in ing 40 per cent being due in a max imum of ten days f rom the settlement of the transaction; a commer- cial bank's guaran tee may be accepted by the National Bank in lieu of the rema in ing 40 per cent. Should an exporter be paid in a currency other than U. S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling, he must exchange the part that is subject to surrender into one of the accept- able currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange converted by foreign embassies, missions, representatives, and institutions to cover their official expenses in Laos must be surrendered at the offi- cial rate. All other receipts from invisibles may be re- tained by the recipient. There are no regulations limiting the import of foreign or domestic banknotes by trav- elers. Capital Under the Investment Law of February 1970, various incentives are available to foreign investors in Laos. Capital inflow is free from exchange control regulations and the foreign exchange need not be surrendered; cap- ital ou tf low is subject to the 40 per cent exchange tax but is not restricted. The purchaser of foreign exchange LAOS must id en t i fy h imse l f, however, and ind ica te the pu r- pose of the payment or t ran s fe r. Gold Residents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm w i th in the coun try. Banks and other residents who are recognized as indu s t r ial users or as importers of gold also may f ree ly import gold in any fo rm, subject to payment of 3.5 per cent customs du ty (ca lcu la ted at the official ra te for the U. S. dollar and US$38 an o u n c e ). Exports of gold by or on behalf of physical or ju r id ical persons other than the mone tary au thor i t ies are proh ib i ted, w i th the exception of gold coins issued under Decree No. 7847 PC of J u ne 26, 1969. Commer- cial impor ts and exports of articles con ta in ing a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold are freely perm i t ted. Changes during 1972 January 1. With the t ran s fer of gasoline imports f rom the official to the free exchange market, imports under the U. S. Import Program came to an end. March 24. FEOF suspended its operations. They were resumed on April 4. April 3. The official exchange rate of K 240 = US$1, which was applicable to imports of aid goods, specified invisibles, and certain export proceeds, was discontinued and all multiple currency practices were abolished. Henceforth, all transactions took place at the official free market rate, which remained unchanged at K 6 00 - US$1. April 3. Un i fo rm surrender requirements of 80 per cent of export proceeds were applied. April 3. An Exchange Control Commission (CODE) was established. Its approval was required for all out- ward payments. Restrictions were imposed on certain payments for current as well as capital transactions. Previously, payments abroad could be made freely and for any purpose through the official free market. April 3. The completion of exchange application forms was made manda tory, and sales of exchange were limited to residents submitting evidence of having met all their tax liabilities. April 3. Letters of credit opened with authorized banks were required for all imports valued at over US$1,000. April 3. The National Bank henceforth accepted de- mand deposits in foreign currencies f rom foreign em- bassies and international organizations operating in Laos; the facility was not extended to the staff of such embassies or organizations. April 18. To facilitate the daily flow of staple food- stuffs imported across the Mekong River, a commercial bank in Vientiane was allowed to sell foreign exchange direct to importers. The fac i l i ty was w i thd r awn on August 18. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS May 26. An exchange tax of 40 per cent was im- posed on all foreign exchange sales other than those re- lated to imports, profit remittances by certain foreign enterprises, medical treatment abroad, and maintenance allowances and transportation fares of nonscholarship students. May 26. The initial screening of applications for for- eign exchange was delegated by CODE to the author- ized banks. September 1. The application of the 40 per cent ex- change tax was forma l ly extended to all outward pay- ments for which no authorization was granted by CODE or the National Exchange Office. Specified non- essential imports ceased to be eligible for financing at the official rate but could still be imported, subject to payment of the K 240 tax. September 1. Advance deposit requirements for im- ports were introduced. The deposit, payable in kip, was 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value for imports from the Re- public of China, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Thailand, and 30 per cent for imports from all other sources. November 3. Importers of duty-free goods and of goods subject to low import duties were required to show proof of proper use of previous exchange authori- zations as a condition for new exchange approvals. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System All transactions take place at the free market rate, which for the U. S. dollar on December 30, 1972 was LL 3.0105 per US$1. There also exists a "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1; this is used only for (1) the valuation of the gold and foreign exchange components in the balance sheet of the Bank of Leba- non and of the Government's foreign exchange receipts and (2) the calculation of duties and taxes levied on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currency, particularly customs duties.1 There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transac- tions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements 2 specifying the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods from any source and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports of arms and imports valued at over LL 500 of certain other commodities ( inc lud ing wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, menthol, leather bags, ladies' dresses, industrial machinery, olive oil, molasses, brushes, poul- try, gasoline, kerosene, and liquid gas) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licens- ing. Import licenses are also required for all machinery for the installation or expansion of manu fac tu r ing plants. Import licenses for raw and refined sugar are conditional on purchases of domestic sugar. All other commodities may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the free market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported by sea or air and a stamp tax of 1.2 per cent is applicable to all imports except gold and banknotes. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified tex- tiles and garments. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free market. 1 The "provisional legal parity" is defined by law in terms of a U. S. dollar equivalent to 0.888671 g ram of fine gold. No legisla- tion has yet been passed to take the new par value of the U. S. dollar into account. 2 Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Eastern Germany, Poland, and Romania. There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Guinea. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of i ron, cast iron, lead, and t in) to any country, re-exports of certain goods to any destination, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports valued at over LL 200 of a few items —such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, apples, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, petroleum and petroleum products, indus t r ial and agri- cultural machines and equipment, and certain metals— to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea require export licenses. Exports of apples to Arab countries are limited to a specified monthly quota. Re-exports to Nor th Korea are subject to prior clearance by the Ministry of National Economy. Exchange receipts f rom exports may be re ta ined, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely per- mitted and do not require a license. However, the import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins that no longer are legal tender must be covered by a certificate ind ica t ing the gold content and weight and issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes during 1972 During the year, banks established in Lebanon began to extend loans abroad that were denominated in Leba- nese pounds. April 12. The ban on the establishment of new com- mercial banks or the opening of new branches of foreign banks in Lebanon was extended for five years. December 18. A preferential trade agreement with the EEC was signed. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO Exchange and Trade System * Lesotho's cu r rency is the South A f r i c an R and. The par v a lue of the rand is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per rand, which corresponds to R 1 • SDR 1.17648 or R 1 = US$1.27732. Exchange rates are based on the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank's fixed rates for the U. S. do l lar aga inst rand (R 0.7809 buy ing, and R 0.7848 selling, per U. S. do l la r) and the London maket rates for the cu r renc ies concerned against the U. S. do l lar. Lesotho is treated under U. K. exchange control regu- la t ions as pa rt of the Overseas S ter l ing Area, a l though it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U . K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Lesotho also fo rms part of the R a nd Cu r rency Area, wh i ch is a s ing le exchange control te r r i to ry comp r is ing Botswana, Lesotho, South A f r i c a, and Swaz i land. For purposes of exchange con t rol over t ransac t ions in secur i t ies or gold, residents of a member coun t ry of the latter area are not regarded as residents of ano ther member coun t ry. The M in is try of Finance controls all external currency transactions. No restrictions are applied to paymen ts w i t h in the Rand Currency Area, and in pr inc ip le these are uncon- trolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Cu r rency Area, Lesotho applies exchange con- trols that are generally s im i lar to those of South A f r ica, although Lesotho's trea tment of certain capital trans- fers to other countries of the Sterling Area may be more liberal. Payments to nonresidents for cu r rent transac- tions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for ou tward t rans fe rs of capital are con- sidered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporar i ly resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Au thor i ty to approve some types of current paymen ts is delegated to commercial banks up to established l im i ts; th is is true, for example, of the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adult and R 800 for a ch i ld) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Lesotho is a member of a customs un ion with Bots- wana, South A f r ica, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods or ig ina t ing in any coun try of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quan t i ty of goods originating outside the customs un ion. Insofar as Lesotho imports goods direct f rom countries outside the customs un ion, such imports are usually licensed in con fo rm i ty with South Afr ica's import regulations. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, South Africa decided to maintain its par va lue in terms of gold. The Reserve Bank with e f fect from Febru- ary 14 quoted fixed rates for the U. S. dollar of US$1.4229 buy ing and US$1.4157 selling, per R 1. 302 Impo rt l icenses a re v a l id for a ll coun t r i es and en t i t le the ho lder to buy the fo re ign exchange requ i red to make the import p aym en t. Lesotho's trade licensing arrangemen ts, however, are designed m a i n ly to raise revenue and to p revent tax evasion and are confined in practice to exports of d iamond s; pe rm i ts are issued by the Depa r tment of Indu s t ry and Commerce. Ce r ta in tax incen t ives for inwa rd d i rect inve s tment are prov ided by the P ioneer I n d u s t r i es Encou ragement Act, 1969 to m a n u f a c t u r i ng ac t iv i t ies approved by a Pioneer I n d u s t r i es Board. Res iden ts may f ree ly pur- chase, ho ld, and sell ce r ta in Lesotho gold co ins that a re legal t e n d e r. Changes during 1972 June 23. Bo t sw an a, Lesotho, South A f r i c a, and Swazi- land ceased to be Scheduled Territories of the S ter l ing Area in terms of the U. K. Exchange Con t rol Act, 1947. June 30. The existing re la t ionsh ip between the rand and the pound s t e r l ing was m a in t a in ed. The South A f r i c an Reserve Bank resumed exchange operations. I ts f ixed quo ta t ions for s te r l ing, wh ich had been float- ing since J u ne 23, rema ined unchanged at £.100 = R 194.6955 ( b u y i n g) and £100 = R 196 .1615 (sell- i n g ). As a result, the rand began to deprec ia te in terms of the U. S. do l lar, for which the pa r i ty re la t ionsh ip had b e e nR 1 = US$1.33333. July 4. Following the application of exchange control by the United Kingdom to the Overseas Sterling Area countries except Ire land, South Afr ica's exchange con- trol regulations were amended. The regulations ceased to distinguish between Sterling Area and non-S ter l ing Area countries. Instead, they now distinguished between the Rand Currency Area (consisting of South Africa and Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland) and the Non- resident Area; the la t ter was defined in two ways: (a) in the application of the Securities Control Notices it consisted of all countries outside South A f r ica and (b) for all other purposes it consisted of all countries outside the Rand Currency Area (and thus excluded Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). A South African resident was defined as a person, whether of South Afr ican or any other na t iona l i ty, who has taken up residence in, or is domiciled in, the Republic of South Africa. A nonresident was defined in two ways: (a) in the application of the Securities Control Notices, as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Republic of South Africa and (b) for all other purposes, as a person whose normal place of resi- dence or domicile is outside the Rand Currency Area. Thus, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland continued to be regarded as nonresidents for purposes of control over transactions in securities. Nonresident rand accounts were reclassified into three groups: Rho- desian, Nonresident, and Blocked Accounts; the reclas- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— sification involved the merg ing of Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts and Ex ternal Accoun ts and their redes- ignation as Nonresident Accounts. October 24. A new par va lue was established and the rand ceased to float w i th sterling. The par va lue was changed f rom R 28.5000 to R 29.7500 per ounce of fine gold, corresponding to SDR 1.17648 per rand. In terms of U. S. dollars, the parity change was f rom R 1 = US$1.33333 to R 1 - US$1.27732; the latest market rate for the U. S. dollar, however, had been R 1 = US$1.2190. The Reserve Bank of South Afr ica henceforth quoted fixed rates for the U. S. dollar instead of sterling. The official buy ing and selling rates were set at US$1.2806 and US$1.2742, respectively, per rand (R 0.7809 and R 0.7848, respectively, per U. S. dollar). The Bank's quotations for other ma jor currencies were based on their rates against the U. S. dollar in the London exchange market. LESOTHO 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.818513 gram of fine gold per Liberian Dollar, corresponding to $1.08571 = SDR 1 or $ 1 = US$ 1. U .S. currency is in circulation along with Liberian coinage. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses; no imports of shotgun shells are permitted at present and only certain types of cement are imported. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature and narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. In practice, meat is imported primarily by the Liberian Supply Corporation and petroleum and petroleum products only by the Liberian Refining Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agricultural products other than rubber, and certain other items, such as arms, ammunition, and explosives. Licenses are issued freely; they serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the monopoly of the * Fo l low ing the announ c em ent on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. do l lar was being d ev a lu ed, the e f fec t ive p a r i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. do l lar was ma in ta ined unchanged at $1 = US$1. Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation. The surren- der of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Under an Investment Incentive Code, enter- prises undertaking new investment projects may be granted five-year to ten-year tax exemption and tariff exemptions on construction materials, raw materials, and capital goods to be used in manufacturing opera- tions. Other possible benefits include tariff protection, subject to approval of the legislature. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Finance; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Under the Gold Agreement of 1958, the Bank of Monrovia, acting on behalf of the Government, purchases unrefined gold from local producers at US$34.00 a troy ounce, gross weight. Af ter refining abroad this gold may be sold on the free market by the Government. Changes during 1972 May 8. The par va lue was changed from 0.888671 gram of fine gold to 0.818513 gram of fine gold. The par i ty relationship for the U. S. do l lar remained unchanged at $1 = US$1. 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Libyan Dinar, corresponding to LD 0.357143 = SDR 1 or LD 0.328947 = US$1, and the Libyan Arab Repub- lic avails itself of wider margins. The U. S. dollar is the intervention currency. The Central Bank of Libya publishes daily buy ing and selling rates for 14 currencies. l It deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U. S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Central Bank of Libya's rates for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1972 were LD 0.32901 buying, and LD 0.33066 selling, per US$1; for the pound sterling the buying and selling rates were LD 0.77239 and LD 0.77627, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The com- mercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other curren- cies against pounds sterling and U. S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for currencies other than ster- ling and U. S. dollars are based on quotations in Lon- don, New York, and other centers abroad. They may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign cur- rencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by the Ministry of Economy. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy; for certain imports the approval of another Ministry (Interior, Health, Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, or Defense) is required. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products, certain cereals, flour, tea, sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, cigarette paper, and a n um b er of other commodities are a government monopoly. Imports of unprocessed gold are confined to the Central Bank of Libya. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in conver- tible currencies, usually U. S. dollars or pounds sterling. All settlements with Israel, Mozambique, Portugal, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank of * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the L ibyan A r ab Repub l ic main- tained its par value in terms of gold. The effec t ive pa r i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dollar became US$1 = LD 0.296053. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swed ish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. do l lars. Libya, who is g a i n f u l ly employed in the L ibyan Arab Republic is permitted under the existing exchange con- trol regulations to open and m a in t a in a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Republic. Legitimate earnings from employers of such nonresidents can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have au thor i ty to credit overtime and interest earned on bal- ances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank of Libya. Rem i t tances abroad f rom such accounts ma in ta ined by non res ident laborers and technicians can be allowed by banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each month; for those whose contracts specify that lodging and /or board w i ll be made avail- able free of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are perm i t ted. Banks may issue travelers checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident laborers and technicians within the limits mentioned. Total permissible remittances in any calen- dar year from a nonresident account are reduced, how- ever, by the value of specified imported goods (includ- ing automobiles and electrical domestic appliances) taken out by a nonresident when going abroad. Funds brought into the Libyan Arab Republic by nonresident contractors under tak ing contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank in the Republic. Payments received in the Libyan Arab Republic by such con- tractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances f rom the Libyan Arab Republic to the debit of these accounts are subject to the prior app roval of the Cen tral Bank of Libya a f ter submission of all the prescribed evidence. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, f u n ds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Republic up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to the Libyan Arab Republic by the owner of the f u n ds or a close relative; for payments in the L ibyan Arab Republic of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for rem i t tances to the owner of the funds in his coun try of pe rmanent residence, up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the f u n ds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qu a l i fy for remit- tance in f u ll to the owner in his coun t ry of permanent residence. The blocked accoun ts of persons (with cer- tain exceptions) who have le ft the L ibyan A rab Repub l ic permanen t ly are being released in in s ta l lmen t s; balances credited pr ior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments Import transac t ions are governed by Law No. 63 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC of 1971. Most imports are under open general license and do not require an ind iv idual import license. The import of some items, inc lud ing alcoholic beverages and narcotics, is prohibited. Imports of pe t ro leum and petroleum products, sugar, salt, tea, rice, barley, wheat, flour, olive oil, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and c igare t te paper are subject to gove rnment monopo ly; they may be imported only by the Na t ional Oil Corporation, the National Supplies Corporation, or the Tobacco General Company. The Cen tral Bank of Libya has a monopo ly over the import of unwo rked gold. All imports f rom Israel, Mozambique, Po r tuga l, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from an insurance company in the Libyan Arab Repub- lic is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an author- ized bank without obtaining a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must submit to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clearance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank of Libya is required for advance payments. Deferred pay- ments (for up to 90 days after customs clearance) and payments for consignment shipments may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs duty and customs sur- charges totaling 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve applications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to LD 100 in a calendar year for meeting genuine per- sonal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature, including fam i ly assistance and gifts. They may also approve transfers abroad of up to LD 1,320 a year for each student (plus tuition fees, an allowance for books, etc.) for educational purposes as well as allocations for travel as indicated below. Remittances from non- resident accounts may be approved by authorized banks up to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require licenses from the Cen- tral Bank of Libya. Applications are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 (LD 10 for children under 12); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the Libyan Arab Republic, but are 306 intended for immed ia te expenses in the Libyan Arab Republic upon re turn to the country. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, inc lud ing tourist travel, may, in add i t ion, take out fore ign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total va lue of LD 300 in a cal- endar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Republic. Children under 12 years of age are allowed one ha lf of th is amoun t. Amoun ts in excess of the above may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims are en t i t led to a special quota of LD 300 in addition to the basic travel allowance. For business travel, residents may take out the equ iva lent of LD 500 a tr ip, subject to a max imum of LD 2,500 in any cal- endar year. All fares may be settled in L ibyan d ina rs in the L ibyan A rab Repub l ic. Temporary residents may take out any travelers checks or fore ign currency notes which they had previously b rought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are only required for commodities which are not of Libyan origin. Export proceeds must be received through an au thor ized bank w i th in six months of shipment. Exports of nonmone ta ry gold (other than for processing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited. All exports to Israel, Mozambique, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Central Bank of Libya. Travelers entering the Libyan Arab Republic may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding a total of LD 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Capital Many aspects of the activities of oil companies oper- ating in the Libyan Arab Republic are governed by Petroleum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. Under the provisions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic develop- ment of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares is held by foreign nationals. Foreign participation in new industrial ven- tures (i.e., after March 20, 1970) is permitted only on a minority basis, and only if it leads to increased produc- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tion in excess of local requ iremen ts, in t roduc t ion of the latest technology, and cooperation w i th foreign firms in exporting the surp lus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been national- ized. Commercial firms have been L ibyan ized in vary- ing degrees. 2 Real estate in the L ibyan Arab Republic may be sold only to Libyans, save in exceptional circumstances spe- cified in a law of May 24, 1960 governing this sub jec t. The net sales proceeds a f ter tax of real estate belonging to fore ign na t iona ls are transferab le, subject to the prior approval of the Cen tral Bank of Libya. Nonresident- owned cap i tal that is not perm i t ted to be t rans fe r red abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank of Libya to borrow f u n ds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior per- mission to purchase real estate s i tua ted outside the Libyan A rab Repub l ic or to invest abroad in securities. Residents of the L ibyan Arab Repub l ic tak ing up per- manent residence abroad are permitted to t rans fer up to LD 5,000 for a f am i ly; applications may be sub- mitted for the release of the balance of the ir assets over a number of years. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm other than bars in the Libyan Arab Republic. The Central Bank of Libya, acting on behalf of the Government, has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. It sells bars to domestic goldsmiths in limited quantities, to meet genuine commercial needs, at prices announced f rom t ime to t ime; at the end of 1972 this price was LD 805 a kilogram .3 Provided that a license is obtained f rom the Ministry of Economy, gold- sm i ths may have such gold processed abroad, after which it must be reimported. Bars purchased from the Central Bank of Libya must be melted and processed before they can be sold to the public. Exports of unworked gold not for processing are not permitted un less made by or on beha lf of the Gove rnmen t. 2 On Ap r il 20, 1973 a law organizing the inves tment of na t ional capital abroad was issued (Law No. 25 of 1973). 3 On June 20, 1973 this price was increased to LD 1,247 a kilo- g ram. LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC Unworked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1972 January J. The amount up to which au thor ized banks are empowered to approve applications by residents to remit foreign exchange for meeting genu ine personal comm i tmen ts abroad of a noncommercial na tu re was increased from LD 50 to LD 100 a person a calendar year. January 1. The authorities delegated to banks for exchange allocations for study abroad, previously sub- ject to a max imum of LD 750 a person a year, were increased. Students not on government scholarships could obtain the same amounts of foreign exchange previously gran ted to those studying under government sponsorship. The new allocations varied according to coun try and level of education. S tuden ts a t tend ing graduate schools in the Un i ted States could obtain the max imum allocation, the equivalent of LD 1,320 a year, p lus tu i t ion fees, an annual allowance for books, etc. February 9. The Central Bank of Libya's selling price for gold sales to domestic goldsmiths was increased from LD 558 to LD 572 a kilogram. The price was fu r ther increased to LD 805 on November 13. March 8. Decree No. 9 /72 was published, which reserved to the Essential Food Committee the importa- tion of wheat, barley, rice, flour, and tea. For tea, the Decree became operative on April 1, and for the other commodities on March 1. April 1. The import of tea became a monopoly of the National Supplies Corporation. May 15. Decision No. 21 /72 of the Ministry of Economy made imports of coffee beans (both roasted and unroas ted) subject to prior license. May 29. The import of pharmaceuticals became a monopoly of the National Pharmaceutical Company. June 24. The Central Bank suspended exchange rate quotations. They were resumed on June 29. August 9. The Central Bank began to post buy ing and selling rates for the Canadian dollar. September 18. Agreement was reached on the estab- lishment of a political and economic un ion with Egypt. September 27. The Central Bank began to post buy- ing and selling rates for the Japanese yen. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Exchange System * No par value for the currency of the Malagasy Republic has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the Malagasy Franc, wh ich is officially ma in ta ined at the rate of FMG 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Malagasy Ins t i tu te of Issue and commercial banks take place at the rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02, f ree of commission charges. Exchange t ransac t ions r e l a t ing to coun tr ies other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies of the French F ranc Area, t ake place in a du al exchange ma rke t, at rates based on the fixed ra te for the French f r a nc and the Paris exchange rate for the fore ign currency concerned in e i ther the official exchange m a rk et or the f inanc ial f r anc ma rke t. Settle- ments eligible for the official exchange ma rket are pay- ments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other current transactions, as well as all current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. All other settlements with countries other than France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries, as well as transactions in bank- notes of such other countries and banknotes issued by the Malagasy Institute of Issue, take place through the financial f r anc market at f ree ly fluctuating rates. The principal current payments and receipts channeled through the financial f ranc ma rket are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remit- tances. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is FMG 255.785 - US$1. The Malagasy Republic's dual exchange market regu- lations do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cam- eroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Peo- ple's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, the Malagasy Republic, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ). All countries other than the Malagasy Republic itself are considered for- eign countries, however, and financial relations with all fo re ign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Office of * Following the announ c em ent on F eb ru a ry 12, 1973 th at the U. S. do l lar was be ing d ev a lu ed, the exchange ra te of FMG 1 = F 0.02 was m a i n t a i n e d, and the e f f e c t ive p a r i ty re la t ion sh ip for the U. S. do l lar became FMG 230.207 = US$1. The ra te of FMG 1 = F 0.02 was also m a i n t a i n ed on Ma rch 19, 1973 when new exchange ra te a r r a n g em e n ts be tween the French f r a nc and ce r ta in o ther cu r renc ies came i n to e f f e c t. 308 External F inance of the Directorate of the Treasury in the M in is try of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrow ing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or in troduc t ion of fo re ign securities in the Malagasy Repub l ic, all ou tward inves tmen ts, and inward direct inves tmen t. Some of the exchange control approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to the authorized banks. All paymen ts and receipts between the Ma lagasy Repub l ic and fo re ign countries are registered, for statis- tical purposes o n l y, by the Malagasy In s t i tu te of Issue, th rough the in t e rm ed i a ry of the in s t i tu t ion executing the t r an s f e r. A ll exchange t ransac t ions re la t ing to fo r- eign coun t r ies must be effec ted th rough au thor ized banks. Impo rt licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bu reau of the D irec tora te of Commerce in the M in is t ry of Commerce, except those for gold, wh ich are issued by the Malagasy In s t i tu te of Issue, which also grants export licenses for gold. Export au thor iza t ions are issued either by the Foreign Trade Bureau (and its prov inc ial off ices) or by other specified public agencies, ma in ly stabilization funds or ma rke t ing offices for agri- cu l tu ral products. Prescription of Currency The Malagasy Republic is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area; since the Malagasy Institute of Issue ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Malagasy francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly made th rough correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f r an cs th rough Foreign or Finan- cial Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal types of nonres ident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Malagasy Francs and Financial Accounts in Malagasy Francs; the fo rmer relate to the official exchange mar- ket and the latter to the financial f r anc market. Mala- gasy banknotes may be credited to Financial Accounts in Malagasy Francs, provided that they are mailed direct f rom abroad to the Malagasy Ins t i tu te of Issue by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of Malagasy bankno tes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is pro- h ib i ted. When Malagasy f rancs accruing to a nonresi- dent are not immed ia te ly eligible for credit to a For- eign Account or a F in an c i al Accoun t, they must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution credited to a Special Account, balances in which may be used by the holder for personal expenses in the Malagasy Republic, subject to a limit of FMG 10,000 a day during a period not exceeding 30 days. Imports and Import Payments All imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to import licensing. For protective reasons, a few imports are subject to licens- ing, irrespective of origin or port of shipment; the import of certain other items from all sources is pro- hibited or suspended until further notice. All other goods that both originate in and are shipped from the French Franc Area, or that originate in and are shipped from EEC countries other than France, may be imported freely. Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of fru it juices are conditional on purchases of domestic fruit juices (jumelage). Imports of house- hold soap are conditional on purchases of Ivory Coast household soap. For restricted imports from non-EEC countries out- side the French Franc Area an annual import program is established. The import program is based on the establishment of global quotas that fix the limits up to which specified commodities may be imported. All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license (or import certificates for liberalized commodities) entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange (up to eight days before shipment when a documentary credit is opened); the payment can be made when the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. For some types of transactions the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly docu- mented. Residents may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism equivalent to FMG 75,000 a person a trip, for up to two trips a year (FMG 35,000 for children under ten ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to the Malagasy Republic must be surrendered. There also is an exchange allocation for business travel up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of FMG 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. Applications for amounts in excess of the basic tourist and business travel allocations, and applications for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Except with the prior ap- proval of the Minister, allocations for different types of travel may not be combined. The transfer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in the Malagasy Republic is permitted, upon presenta- MALAGASY REPUBLIC tion of his employment contract and provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period, up to 25 per cent of the net salary for bache- lors and persons having their family in the Malagasy Republic, and up to 45 per cent for those whose family lives outside the Malagasy Republic (100 per cent for all concerned during leave spent outside the Malagasy Republic). Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign banknotes and coins and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry, as well as for- eign currency obtained by documented reconversion of Malagasy banknotes purchased after entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the appro- priate commodity stabilization office; these products include coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, sugar, rice, and petroleum and petroleum products. An export license issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau is required for all commodities valued at more than FMG 250,000 and originally imported from a country outside the French Franc Area. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered; such export proceeds normally must become due not later than one month after arrival of the goods at their destination. All export transactions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank and a commitment to repatriate the proceeds must be signed. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accru- ing in those countries or from nonresidents must be collected and, when received in foreign currency, sur- rendered within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of Malagasy banknotes and coins, as well as any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. Capital Capital movements between the Malagasy Republic and foreign countries and between residents and non- residents are subject to exchange control; capital trans- fers to all countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from foreign countries normally are permitted freely. All inward and outward transfers must be notified to the Malagasy Institute of Issue once a month to facilitate the compilation of the balance of payments; for those in excess of FMG 500,000 the 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC reason must be specified. This no t if ica t ion must be made by the f inanc ial in te rmed ia ry concerned. Special con tro ls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over bo r row ing abroad, over inw a rd direct inves tment and all ou twa rd inve s tmen t, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Malagasy Repub l ic. Foreign direct inve s tmen ts in the Malagasy Repub- lic,1 and Malagasy direct inves tmen ts abroad, - require pr ior app roval of the M in is ter of Economy and Finance ( i .e ., the Directorate of the Treasury in the M i n i s t ry ). The total or par t ial l iqu ida t ion of such inves tmen ts mu st be declared to the M in is ter. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts, whe ther these are Ma lagasy inve s tmen ts abroad or fo re ign inves tmen ts in the Ma lagasy Republic, must be reported to the M in is ter of Economy and Finance within 20 days fo l- lowing each operation. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of for- eign securities in the Malagasy Republic requires prior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt f rom au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Malagasy Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, o f fe r ing, or sale in the Malagasy Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Malagasy Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Repub- lic of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires pr ior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. However, loans contracted by regis- tered banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt f rom approval. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control au thor iza t ion, and is restricted. In accordance with the Investment Code of Septem- ber 1962, as amended by Law No. 65-022 of Decem- ber 16, 1965, foreign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential trea tment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, supplementary allocations above those allotted in the annual import program, the intro- duction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not 1 Inc lud ing those made by companies in the Malagasy Republic that are d irec t ly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Republic of fore ign com- panies. 2 Inc lud ing those made th rough the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Mala- gasy Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Malagasy Republic. 310 qua l i fy ing for an "order of approval." Exceptional t rea tment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be gran ted in a found ing agreement (convention d'eta- blissement); such an agreement requires pa r l iamen ta ry approval. Gold Res iden ts are f ree to hold, acqu i re, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in the Ma lagasy Repub l ic. Impor ts and exports of gold requ i re pr ior authorization by the Ma lagasy In s t i tu te of Issue. Exempt from this require- ment are ( 1) impo r ts and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the Malagasy I n s t i t u te of Issue and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con- t a i n i ng a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic le s ). Impor ts of gold, whe ther licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declara- t ion. New ly m ined gold must be surrendered to the M in i s t ry of Indu s t ry and Mines wh ich, in principle, must deliver it to the Ma lagasy Ins t i tu te of Issue af ter processing. Changes during 1972 May 20. Decree No. 72-148 extended exchange con- t rol tempo ra r i ly to the French Franc Area. Previously, financial re la t ions w i th France, Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account coun t r ies were exempt f rom the regula- tions conce rn ing financial re la t ions w i th fore ign coun- tries. Paymen t s, i n c l u d i ng cap i tal t ran s fe rs to Franc Area coun t r ies, rema ined unres tr ic ted, however, pro- vided that app rop r ia te documen ta t ion was submitted. May 20. Import paymen ts hencefor th could not nor- m a l ly be made u n t il a f t er customs clearance. June 23. Decree No. 72-195 made impo r ts f rom all sources of var ious types of tex t i le fabr ics subject to p r ior au thor iza t ion. November 2. Ma lagasy b ankno t es mailed in by the fore ign corresponden ts of au thor ized banks could only be credited to F inanc ial Accounts in Malagasy Francs if it could be shown that the ir exportation had previ- ous ly been au thor ized. November 25. Decree No. 72-446 was issued con- cerning the app l ica t ion of Law No. 67-028 of Decem- ber 18, 1967. Foreign coun tr ies were defined as all countries other than the Malagasy Republic; new defi- n i t ions of residents and nonres iden ts were also pro- vided. (P r ev iou s ly, fore ign countries had been defined as all coun tr ies other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies .) Exchange transactions, capital movemen ts, and pay- ments of any k ind between the Malagasy Republic and fo re ign coun t r ies or w i th in the Malagasy Repub l ic be- tween a resident and a nonres ident became subject to p r ior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance, and had to be e f fec ted th rough authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in te rmed ia r ies, unless the M in is ter's prior approval to the contrary was obtained. The Minister, however, could delegate his au tho r i ty to au thor ized intermediaries w i th in l im i ts and subject to cond i t ions to be established by orders and circulars. Unless an exemption was g ran ted by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance, the f o l l ow i ng were prohibited: (a) the fo rm a t ion of assets abroad by a res iden t; (b) the holding in the Malagasy Republic of foreign means of payment by a res iden t; (c) the import and export of means of p aym ent (bankno te s, checks, and d r a f t s ); and (d) the impo rt and export of Malagasy or fore ign securities. The fo l low ing transactions required the prior ap- proval of the M in is ter of Economy and Finance: (a) transfers or payments of any kind made by a resident to a fore ign coun try, or w i th in the Ma lagasy Republic in f avor of a non res iden t; ( b) all Malagasy investments in fore ign coun tr ies; (c) the purchase abroad by resi- dents of securities; (d) borrowing abroad; (e) loans of any kind granted by residents to nonresidents; (f) the issuing, advertising, or o f f e r ing for sale of foreign secur- ities in the Malagasy Republic; and ( g) the import and export of gold. Residents were required to repatriate all claims on foreign countries or nonresidents resulting f rom exports, services, etc., when claims were expressed in fore ign currency, and to surrender the foreign cur- rency by sale for domestic currency. All foreign secur- ities, fore ign currencies, and titles representing claims on foreign countries were required, when held in the Malagasy Republic, to be deposited with an authorized in termed iary, whether they belonged to residents or nonresidents. All import and export transactions had to be domiciled with authorized banks. Banks' assets and liabilities in francs and in foreign currencies vis-a-vis foreign countries were subject to control by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who could delegate that authority to the Malagasy Institute of Issue. Decrees Nos. 68-002, 68-566, 68-567, and 72-148 were revoked, as were the regulations issued for their implementation. The regulations issued on the same date for implementing Decree No. 72-446 (see below) had the following effects: the types of payments to foreign countries for which authorized banks had delegated approval authority were reduced; the tourist travel allo- cation was reduced f rom FMG 175,000 a person a year, without limit on the number of trips a year, to FMG 75,000 a person a trip, for not more than two trips a year; the business travel allocation was reduced from FMG 400,000 to FMG 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year; the facility allowing payments abroad of up to FMG 15,000 to be made freely at any time was eliminated; the permissible per- centages of workers' remittances were reduced; and the amount of Malagasy banknotes that travelers could take MALAGASY REPUBLIC out was reduced to FMG 5,000 ( p r e v i o u s ly un l im i t ed for travelers going to France or an Operations Account coun t ry, or FMG 25,000 for t r av e l e rs to o ther destina- t i o n s ). November 25. Order No. 4098 appointed as author- ized in termed iar ies the Ma lagasy In s t i tu te of Issue, the Bank of Madagascar and the Comores, and th ree com- mercial banks. The Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion ceased to be an authorized intermediary. November 25. Order No. 4099 empowered author- ized banks to authorize paymen ts abroad, provided documen ta ry evidence was supp l ied, in respect of imports; harbor, warehousing, and customs charges; the cost of processing and repairs; and taxes, fines, and legal expenses. Fur thermore, authorized banks could, up to limits to be indicated by circular, authorize pay- ments in respect of wages arid salaries received in the Ma lagasy Republic by fore ign workers, and in respect of travel expenses abroad. For all other types of pay- ments the prior approval of the Minister of Economy and Finance had to be sought through an authorized bank. The Order also provided that (1) foreign exchange acquired to make a foreign payment but not utilized must be sold back w i th in a month a f ter acquisition; (2) nonresident accounts in the Malagasy Republic could not be credited with Malagasy banknotes, except accounts in the names of authorized banks' foreign cor- respondents (under conditions to be established by cir- cu la r ); and (3) residents must within a month from the due date of the payment collect and, when payment took place in fore ign currency, sell against Malagasy francs, the f u ll amounts subject to repatriation; collec- tion could not take place in Malagasy banknotes or to the debit of postal checking accounts in the Malagasy Republic. November 25. Order No. 4100 gave a definition of foreign direct investment in the Malagasy Republic and specified in what circumstances the prior approval of the Minister of Economy and Finance, or declaration to the Minister, was required. The Order also provided that borrowing abroad required the prior approval of the Minister, with the exception of borrowing by regis- tered banks and credit institutions with special legal status. November 25. Order No. 4101 provided that pay- ments instruments, titles of claim or property, and Malagasy or foreign securities could not be sent abroad in postal parcels or by mail unless prior approval from the Minister of Economy and Finance had been ob- tained. Authorized banks were exempted. November 25. Order No. 4102 dealt with the imple- mentation of the control over the application of the exchange control regulations. November 25. Circular No. 28042 provided that, with minor exceptions, all export transactions valued at 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC FMG 50,000 or over must be domiciled with an author- ized bank. Payment had to be received either in foreign currency or to the debit of a Foreign Account. The export proceeds had to be collected within one month of the due date stipulated in the commercial contract. This date could not normally be later than one month a f t er arr ival of the goods at their destination. November 25. Circular No. 28043 required, with m inor exceptions, all import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more to be domiciled with an author- ized bank. Except for capital goods, importation had to take place within six months of domiciliation. If a documen tary credit was opened, then foreign currency could be acquired by the importer at the earliest eight days prior to shipment; if payment was to be made on a collection basis, the foreign currency could be ac- quired as soon as the authorized bank concerned had verified the shipping documents and handed them over to the importer. The actual payment abroad could only be made af ter shipment. Advance payments were lim- ited to 30 per cent of the contract value for capital goods and to 10 per cent for other goods, unless other- wise authorized. November 25. Circular No. 28044 set out the new regulations with respect to transfers of savings from salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals. Amounts to be transferred could not exceed 25 per cent of the net salary for bachelors and for married workers whose fam i ly lived in the Malagasy Republic; 45 per cent for those with a fam i ly outside the Malagasy Republic; and 100 per cent for all concerned during vacations actually spent outside the Malagasy Republic. November 25. Circular No. 28045 set out the regu- lations applicable to travel allocations and the import and export of means of payment by resident and non- resident travelers. For these purposes, residents were defined as individuals of any nationality who have had their customary residence in the Malagasy Republic for at least six months. Resident and nonresident travelers were authorized to import and export FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bankno tes. Resident and nonresident travelers could b r ing in any amount in means of payment ex- pressed in fo re ign currencies. Nonresident travelers were required to declare these upon entry and upon depar ture could take out the unused amount. The tourist travel allocation for residents was the equivalent of FMG 75,000 a person a trip, for up to two trips a year (FMG 35,000 for children under t en ). This allocation could not normally be combined with the business travel allocation. For business travel the allocation was the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, up to FMG 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. Any unused foreign means of payment had to be sold to an authorized bank within eight days a f ter re turn. Applications for amounts in excess of the basic tourist and business travel alloca- tions could be submitted to the Ministry of Economy 312 and Finance, to which also all applications for exchange for other types of travel had to be submitted. November 25. Circular No. 28046 set out the pro- cedural arrangements for the implementation of the provisions of Order No. 4100 concerning foreign direct investments in the Malagasy Repub l ic (and the ir l iqu i- da t ion) and borrowing abroad by residents. November 25. Circular No. 28047 specified the per- mitted debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts in Malagasy Francs and to Financial Accounts in Ma- lagasy Francs. It also indicated the rules for the deposit or withdrawal of securities in or f rom a foreign dossier. For these purposes, the Circular specified what physical persons were to be considered nonresidents and gave definitions of Malagasy and foreign securities. November 25. C ircu lar No. 28048 dealt with receipts and expenditures of fo re ign ships in the Malagasy Republic and of Malagasy ships abroad. It gave rules for the func t ion ing of shipping accounts. November 25. Circular No. 28049 dealt w i th f am i ly remittances. November 25. Circular No. 28050 provided that only securities issued in, or denominated in the currency of, certain specified countries had to be deposited with an authorized bank. The corresponding deposit require- ment for foreign means of payment was applicable irrespective of the currency or country concerned. November 25. Circular No. 28051 indicated what establishments could receive a subdelegation allowing them to receive direct payments in foreign currencies f rom tourists. November 28. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, Circular No. 28239 shifted a number of current transactions f rom the financial franc market to the official exchange marke t. The principal current paymen ts and receipts that continued to be channeled through the financial f ranc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remit- tances. November 28. Circular No. 28240 specified how authorized banks should deal with funds in Malagasy francs or securities that they received for the account of a nonresident but which could not be credited to a Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs or a Financial Account in Malagasy Francs and could not be incor- porated in a foreign dossier. Such funds and securities were to be credited to Special Accounts or placed in a Special Dossier. All credits to Special Accounts were free ly permitted, but only the fo l low ing debits were free ly permitted: t ran s fe rs between Special Accounts in the name of the same holder and w i thdrawa ls of banknotes and coins by the holder h imse l f, up to FMG 10,000 a day for a maximum of 30 days. All other debits to Special Accounts, as well as all transactions in securities held in a Special Dossier, required the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Malawi Kwacha, corresponding to MK 0.833333 = SDR 1. Malawi does not avail itself of wider margins. A fixed rate for sterling is maintained at MK 1 = <£0.5, and the kwacha accordingly is floating against the U. S. dollar. The commercial banks base their rates for cur- rencies other than sterling on the current London mar- ket rates. On December 31, 1972 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. do l lar were MK 1 = US$1.18500 and MK 1 = US$1.15875, respectively. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal cu r rent payments is in t u rn delegated to commercial banks designated as authorized dealers. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade and Industry, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The Minister is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Malawi is a member of the Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947, and main- tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom.1 For prescription of currency purposes, a distinction is made between the rest of the Sterling Area (the Nonresident Scheduled Area) and all other countries except Rhodesia (the External Account A r e a ). Settlements w i th residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Malawi kwacha th rough a Nonresident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Malawi kwacha to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments f rom resi- dents of countries outside the S ter l ing Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Malawi kwacha from an External Account, or in any non- Sterling Area currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of * Following the announ c em ent on F eb ru a ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the Malawian au tho r i t ies on Feb rua ry 17 announced that the kwacha would rema in pegged to sterling. Thus the kwacha continued to float w i th sterling. 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha (or any other currency that may be legal tender in Ma law i) are considered fo re ign currencies. other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Non- resident Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any Sterling Area currency, with authorized payments to Sterling Area countries by residents, and with transfers from other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to make pay- ments to residents of Malawi for any purpose, and may be transferred freely to other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in Malawi. Transfers to External Accounts require specific approval. Accounts in Malawi kwacha held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area territory, with individually approved transfers from Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency by non- residents to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Malawi and of any other country of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area territory, or to Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts in Malawi, and for pur- chases of any Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area cur- rency other than Rhodesian currency f rom authorized dealers; they may also be debited for withdrawals by the account holder wh i le tempo ra r i ly s tay ing in Malawi. External Accounts—Rhodesia are accounts in Malawi kwacha that are held by persons regarded as residents of Rhodesia. They may only be credited with (1) the proceeds from the sale of Rhodesian currency to an authorized dealer in Malawi, and (2) transfers f rom another Rhodesian External Account. The accounts may be debited with (1) payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose; (2) payments to the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi; (3) trans- fers to another Rhodesian External Account; and (4) transfers to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha held with authorized banks by residents of any coun t ry other than Malawi are credited with non transferab le capital sums in Malawi currency which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances of Blocked Accounts in Malawi securities, provided that these are held in Malawi to the order of an authorized 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is free ly t rans fe rab le to the account holder's coun t ry of residence. Imports and Import Payments The s ta tu to ry basis of the p r inc ipal impo rt restric- tions is the Control of Goods Act, which authorizes the Minister of Trade and Indu s t ry to control and regulate the import, export, d is t r ibu t ion, disposal, pur- chase, sale, wholesale price, and re ta il price of any goods. It also has provisions which, when brought into opera t ion, w i ll requ ire all impo r te rs and exporters to be registered. The import from Rhodesia of asbestos, iron ore, pig iron, chrome, tobacco, copper, and hides and skins is prohibited. For a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the coun try of origin. All other goods may be impo r ted und er an open general license when or ig ina t ing in Commonwea l th coun tr ies, in non- Commonwea l th coun tr ies that are members of the GATT, or in the Repub l ic of Ch ina. W i th respect to other coun t r ies, an impo rt license is requ i red for all commodities except certain items such as pe tro leum products, exposed c inema tograph ic films, bona fide unsolicited g if ts not exceeding MK 50 in value, sam- ples, and advertising materials. Payments for imports f rom all countries must be made within six months after the date of import. Foreign exchange for these payments is automatically granted by the authorized dealers, subject only to the presenta- tion of relevant documents and compliance with import licensing requirements. Any transfer of funds in antici- pation of imports is prohibited, except with the per- mission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to MK 100 on presentation of an invoice or other evidence indicating that the seller requires payment in advance. Imports from any Sterling Area country may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local Nonresident Sched- uled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Imports from other areas, except Rhodesia, may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local External Account, in sterling to an External Account held elsewhere in the Sterling Area, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. A surtax of 10 per cent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of their origin; the surtax is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. 2 Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, hoes, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 314 Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control. The basic exchange allowance for travel is MK 20 a day for an adu l t, w i th a max imum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each child under 18 years of age, w i th a m ax imum of MK 300 a calendar year for chil- dren between 10 and 18, and of MK 200 a year for ch i ldren under 10. The annual allowance is not cumu- lative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance dur ing the p reced ing three years. These a l loca t ions are subject to a combined m ax imum of MK 2,000 a year for a fam i ly t rave l ing together. Exchange is provided, subject to certain l im i t s, for other purposes, such as education, medical t rea tmen t, fam i ly rem i t tances, and business travel. App l ica t ions for amoun ts exceeding the stand- ard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign na t iona ls employed in Malawi on contracts or ho ld ing a temporary employ- ment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earn ings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi currency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in va lue are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later th an six mon ths af ter the date of expor ta t ion. Cer ta in commodities 3 are sub- ject to export licensing, ma in ly to ensure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an au tho r ized dea ler. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any fore ign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of fore ign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. The import of currency notes and coins of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the tak ing up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. This 3 Implements of wa r, petroleum produc ts, nickel, a tom ic energy mate- rials, and certain agricultural and animal products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is norma l ly g ran ted, provided that the terms of repay- ment are realistic. Ou tward t rans fe rs of capital, includ- ing those to other par ts of the Sterling Area, are con- trolled, but non res iden ts are perm i t ted to repatriate their inves tmen ts when they have satisfied the authori- ties that the or ig inal inves tment was made w i th funds brought in to the coun t ry f rom sources outside Ma law i; there are no res t r ic t ions on the t r an s f er abroad of d iv idends and prof i ts of fore ign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local bor- row ing. In general, residents are not perm i t ted to transfer capital abroad and, w i th cer ta in exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an au thor ized dealer any foreign exchange wh ich accrues to them. However, residents may purchase fo re ign securities (except bearer securi- ties) quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and held to the order of an authorized dealer, and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are permitted to be repatriated by the exchange control au thor i t ies of the coun try concerned. All income earned f rom these investments must be repatriated, and the corresponding foreign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: ( 1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) Married persons who have not reached the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a max imum of MK 8,000 for a fam i ly. (3) Unma r r ied persons who have not reached 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigra- tion allowance on each ann iversary of his departure f rom Malawi, up to a max imum of MK 8,000. Applica- t ions for emigrants' allowances, whether initial or sub- MALAWI sequent, must be submitted to the exchange control au tho r i t ies for approval. Residents requ ire prior approval to lend to non- residents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be w i thhe ld if it is felt that excessive recourse is being had to local borrow- ing, and that the firms have brought in insufficient wo rk ing capital f rom abroad. Gold Residents of Ma lawi may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for num isma t ic purposes. With th is exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry requ ire licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Indu s t ry in consultation w i th the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for imports by or on beha lf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1972 February 1. The Companies (Am endm en t) Act No. 31 of 1971 came in to effec t. All foreign companies operating in Malawi had to be reregistered by Ju ly 31. Residence requirements were introduced for company directors and secretaries. June 23. Malawi ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 27. It was announced that un t il fu r th er notice, the kwacha would remain pegged to sterling at MK 1 = £0.5. As a result, the kwacha began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective par i ty relation- ship for which had been MK 1 - US$1.30286. July 10. It was announced that f u t u re participations by the Gove rnment or state-owned companies in for- eign enterprises opera t ing in Malawi would be effected through share issues ra ther than take-overs. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Dollar, corresponding to M$3.06122 = SDR 1 or M$2.81955 = US$1, and Malaysia avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Malaysia stands ready to buy Ma lays ian currency against U. S. dollars (the intervention currency) at M$2.8820 per US$1 and to sell Malaysian currency for dollars at M$2.7570 per US$1 (the support rates); no commission is charged. The Central Bank normally deals at the exchange limits and dealings by the Bank are made only in the spot market. The Bank has not established official buying and selling rates for other currencies. The commercial banks quote mu tu a l ly agreed rates for customers for transactions of up to M$250,000, for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified currencies.1 For trans- actions in excess of M$250,000, they quote freely, within the support margins maintained by the Central Bank. Authorized banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Malaysian, Singapore, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, at the Central Bank and the commercial banks. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government through- out Malaysia. Much of the au thor i ty for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The au thor i ty for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control th roughout Malaysia is carried out jo in t ly by the Ministry of Com- merce and Indus t ry and the Royal Customs and Excise.2 Certain import and export transactions are effected by the Na t ional Trading Corporation (PERNAS). Prescription of Currency Malaysia is a member of the Sterling Area, although on June 23, 1972 it ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Area in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947.3 All paymen ts to and f rom Sterling Area countries must be made in a Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area, other 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro- ner, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 There are at present five separa te cus toms a reas: West Malaysia, excluding Penang; Sabah, exc lud ing Labuan; Sa rawak; Penang; and Labuan. Labuan and Penang are f ree ports. 3 The Sterling Area continues to be defined as comprising all terri- tories listed in the First Schedule to Malaysia's Exchange Control Act, 1953. Following the U. K. measures of June 23, 1972, Malaysia main- tained this schedule unchanged. 316 than Rhodesia, may be made either in Malaysian dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rho- desia must be obtained either in Malaysian dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an Exter- nal Accoun t, or in any specified currency. Special regu- la t ions apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated Ex te rnal Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Sterling Area currency, other than Rhodesian currency, sold to a bank in Malaysia, with transfers of Malaysian dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with f u n ds eligible for t rans fer to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be t rans fe r red to any other account, whether resident or nonres iden t, and may be converted in to any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are desig- nated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Ta r i f fs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not yet been fully unified, although steps toward unification are being taken. Some in ternal tar iffs and other trade restrictions still exist between parts of Malaysia. Most impor ts are permitted free ly under open general license. Depending on the na tu re and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other impor ts are subject to quantitative restrictions pend ing the introduction of pro- tective customs duties to protect local industries. Imports into all parts of Ma lays ia of all commodities f rom South A f r ica, Rhodesia, or any terr i tory adm in- istered by either are prohibited. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities from mainland China are prohibited except under specific license. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities f rom East- ern Germany and Nor th Korea also require specific licenses. Impo r ts in to West Ma lay s ia of p r ima tes f rom a ll sources, including East Malaysia, are prohibited except under specific license; imports of bones, bone meal, and other live animals (except sheep and goats) from Bru- ne i, Bu rma, Indone s ia, the Khm er Repub l ic, Laos, Thai- land, and Viet-Nam also require a specific license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports into Sarawak of live sheep and goats from all sources, including West Malaysia and Sabah, are pro- hibited except under specific license. In respect of West Malaysia, imports of rice from any country are condi- tional on the importer purchasing one ton of rice from the government reserve stockpile for every ton imported;4 imports of wheat flour, rice bran, and suga r5 from all sources are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons; licenses for wheat flour are not being issued. Other goods subject to quantitative restric- tion in West Malaysia include rolled oats, certain cotton fabrics, jute, and fu l ly assembled motor vehicles. Cer- tain imports are effected by a state trading corporation, PERNAS, which has a monopoly over imports from mainland China. Exchange control approval for import payments is required only when the payee is resident outside the Sterling Area. Where necessary, permission is given freely for payments in foreign currency for all permitted imports. Payments in foreign currency are permitted freely for goods on open general license; for imports that require a special license, exchange control approval is forthcoming when the license has been granted. V i r tua l ly all imports into Malaysia ( inc lud ing Penang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 4 per cent ad valorem, unless they are re-exported ex-bond; a drawback may be granted on goods intended for re-export or for export after processing. In addition, most imports into Malaysia (excluding Penang and Labuan) are subject to a sales tax; the standard rate of tax is 5 per cent ad valorem, but certain luxury goods are subject to a rate of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments related to com- mercial transactions and personal paymen ts to other countries, except Rhodesia, are au thor ized. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Special arrangemen ts per- mit family remittances to mainland China to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 from a family in any one mon th, but add i t ional amoun ts may be transferred th rough the b ank ing system. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, wh ich is given free ly. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$ 1,000 in Malaysian notes and the equivalent of M$ 1,000 in foreign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by t rav- elers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Malaysian notes that may be taken out of Ma lays ia MALAYSIA by travelers going direct to Brunei or Singapore. Non- resident travelers are allowed to take out foreign cur- rency notes up to the amount declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Malaysia (West Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak) at present ma in ta in separate export control systems, although the Federal Govern- ment retains the right to legislate in respect of exports f r om any Malaysian territory. All exports f rom Malaysia to countries outside the Sterling Area have to be author- ized by a bank in Malaysia and the fore ign exchange proceeds sold to a bank in Malaysia. Malaysian exchange control forms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Malaysia for all such exports valued at M$5,000 or more. This requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations and are sold to an authorized bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from West Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange. Exports of rubber and tin to South Africa and any territory administered by South Afr ica are prohibited, as are exports of sugar to any destination. All exports to Rhodesia and any territory administered by Rhodesia are also prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Singapore may b r ing in any amount in Malaysian notes, and other travelers may br ing in M$ 1,000; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India, Indonesia, and Rhodesia.6 No limitations are imposed on the import of cu r rency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital t rans fe rs to and from other countries in the Sterling Area. Inwa rd and ou tward cap i tal t rans fe rs between Malaysia and coun- tries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but the subsequent u t i l iza t ion of nonresident- owned funds in Malaysia in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made th rough a recognized stock exchange w i th funds f rom an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; otherwise, invest- ment in stocks and bonds is subject to ind iv idual approval. Investments in new indus t r ial and development 4 This ratio is varied from time to time depending on the turnover of official stocks. 5 Including jaggery, rock sugar, and molasses listed under specified tariff numbers. 6 Travelers are allowed to bring in Indian rupee notes up to Rs 270 a person and Indonesian rup iah notes up to Rp 3,000 a person. The import of Rhodesian currency notes is prohibited. 3 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA projects t h at have been approved by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and I n d u s t ry are not res tr ic ted. The t r an s f er to re s iden ts of coun t r ies ou ts ide the S te r l ing Area of cap i tal he ld or a c c r u i ng in Ma lay s ia is gene ra l ly per- m i t ted but requ i res p r ior exchange control approva l. Inves tmen ts by Ma lay s ian na t iona ls in countries outside the S te r l ing Area may be made upon approval of the exchange control au thor i t ies; this is given on ly when such inves tmen ts are considered to serve the economic interest of the coun t ry. Gold Res iden ts o ther t h an au tho r ized dealers in gold are not perm i t ted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manu fac tu red into jewelry or o rnamen ts. The m anu f a c tu r e, import, or export of gold coins is prohibited, as is domestic trad ing in gold coins other than the M$100 gold coin of Malaysian currency and the S$150 gold coin of Singapore cur- rency (unless these are part of ornaments, dealing in which is un res t r ic ted ). Resident and nonresident travel- ers between Malaysia and Singapore, however, may freely bring in or take out, on their person, one M$100 gold coin and one S$150 gold coin issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore. Goldsmiths are permitted by the exchange control authorities to purchase certain quantities of gold f rom an authorized dealer at local free market prices for the manu fac tu re of bona fide jewe lry and ornaments. Furthermore, pro- ducers of gold are permitted to sell their output at local free market prices to authorized dealers in gold. Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs Act, 1967, and require licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which may consult the exchange control authorities. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given except for imports by authorized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of goldsmiths for manufac tur ing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial uses. The importation of gold into West Malaysia is allowed only by authorized dealers in gold, subject to an overall quota of 40,000 ounces a quarter; a certain amount of gold (5,000 ounces a quarter for Sabah and 7,500 ounces a quarter for Sara- wak) is permitted to be imported into East Malaysia solely for the manufac ture of ornaments. In both East and West Malaysia, imports are allocated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender system; successful tenderers must pay a premium to the Government. Imports are subject to a 2 per cent import du ty and a 4-per cent surtax as well as a sales tax of 10 per cent ad valorem. Domestic transactions in gold or gold orna- ments are subject only to the sales tax, at 10 per cent ad valorem. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited under the exchange control regulations. 318 Changes during 1972 January 6. The export tax on East Ma lays ian rubber was reduced to the level of that on West M a l ay s i an rubbe r. The export tax on p a lm oil was replaced by a sliding-scale tax. The export tax on West Ma lay s ian sawn logs was increased f r om 10 per cent to 15 per cent. January 6. The tax on interest payab le to non res iden ts was reduced f rom 40 per cent to 15 per cent for loans taken up a f ter J a n u a ry 1, 1972 to finance deve lopment projects or impor ts of cap i tal equ ipment for such p ro j- ects. (On December 6, the tax was abo l ished .) January 20. The Na t ional Trad ing Corporation (PERNAS) was given a monopo ly over impo r ts origi- n a t i ng in m a in l and Ch ina. March 1. A 5 per cent sales tax was levied on vir- t u a l ly all imported or locally m a n u f a c t u r ed goods. The ma in exemptions were for essential food s tu f fs and basic raw materials. (On December 6, the tax was increased to 10 per cent for a number of l u x u ry goods, inc lud ing precious me ta ls .) March 17. Exports of sugar were prohibited. April. Imports of cocoa powder and several iron and steel products were made sub ject to import licens- ing and quota restrictions when impor ted in to West Ma lays ia and Penang. April. Imports in to Sarawak of su lphur and a number of chemicals were prohibited except when authorized by specific license. June 23. Malaysia ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 23. The Association of Banks suspended the daily posting of "merchant rates" ("best agreed" rates) for sterling. June 24. Following the floating of the pound sterling, it was announced that Malaysia maintained the par value of its currency in terms of gold and was repegging f rom sterling to the U. S. dollar. The U. S. dollar replaced sterling as the intervention currency. Previ- ously, the parity relationship for sterling had been <£ stg. 1 = M$7.3469. The Central Bank's official rates (support rates) for the U. S. dollar were fixed at M$2.8820 selling and M$2.7570 buy ing. The inter- changeability arrangements with Singapore (and Brunei) were continued without change; the related settlements between the monetary authorities, however, were from June 26 effected in U. S. dollars at par. July 1. The shipment through Singapore of West Malaysian goods (and re-exports) bound for East Malaysia required specific permission from the Customs Department. Such permission was not normally granted. July. The import into East Malaysia of most types of motor vehicles was prohibited unless an import license was obtained. July 20. For exchange transactions in excess of M$250,000, commercial banks no longer were obliged to apply the "merchant rates" fixed by the Association ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of Banks. They could hence fo r th quote free ly for such transactions, w i th in the support marg ins maintained by the Central Bank. July 27. The export tax on pa lm kernel was increased f rom 10 per cent to 20 per cent. October 23. The M in is try of Commerce and Indus try announced that the Association of Banks, which pro- vided direct quotations against Malaysian dollars only for U. S. do l lars and sterling, was preparing a system of direct quo ta t ions for European currencies, November 2. Imports of specified textiles from all sources were prohibited. MALAYSIA 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Exchange Rate System * No par value for the currency of the Republic of Mali has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Malian Franc, defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0016 gram of fine gold. The Malian franc is officially maintained at the rate of MF 1 = 0.01 French franc, and there also is a fixed rate of MF 2 for CFA francs. Mali operates a dual exchange market for trans- actions with foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries. x Transactions for the following take place at exchange rates based on those ruling in the official exchange market in Paris: imports, exports, and most other cur- rent transactions, as well as all current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. All other settlements with foreign coun- tries as well as transactions in domestic and foreign banknotes take place at rates based on those ruling in the financial franc market in Paris. The principal current payments and receipts channeled through the financial franc market are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remittances. In transactions eligible for the official market, the effec- tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is US$1 -MF 511.570. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The bilateral payments agreements are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affa irs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Exchange control is applicable only to foreign countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments arrangements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Bilateral accounts are maintained with mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Egypt, Hun- gary, Morocco, Poland, Romania, Senegal, the U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 2 * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Mali maintained unchanged the exchange rate of MF 1 = F 0.01. This rate was also maintained unchanged on March 19, 1973 when new exchange rate arrangements between the French franc and certain other currencies came into effect. 1 These are countries whose institute of issue ma in ta ins an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 The payments arrangements with Morocco and Senegal are inop- erative. 320 Mali is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since its Central Bank ma in ta ins an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Malian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements w i th all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or Financial Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are in principle based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons, and licenses are not normally issued for certain other goods. Imports of all other goods, irrespective of origin, require individual licenses, and imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program drawn up by a joint French-Malian Committee. The program consists of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the con- vertible area (defined as comprising all other countries, including the French Franc Area). Certain aid-financed imports are not included in the import program and do not require an import license. Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne de 1'Import-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most important, having a monopoly over the import of five items.3 All imports from and exports to countries that have payments agreements with Mali are made by SOMIEX or Unicoop. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover and the number of his employees. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of the quota accorded to h im. In addition, importers may with an import license import any goods under the EXIC (Exportation et Importation Concomitante) procedure. The author- ized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for all licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are 3 Flour, milk, salt, sugar, and tea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange alloca- tion of an amount equivalent to MF 150,000 a person, which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange remaining af ter return to Mali must be sur- rendered. For business travel, there is a special alloca- tion of the equivalent of MF 40,000 a day, subject to a max imum of MF 400,000 a trip.4 The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of MF 50,000 in Malian banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hou r s ). Travelers to other countries may take out MF 250,000 in Malian banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or up to MF 150,000 if no declaration was made. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Malian banknotes and any payments ins trumen ts drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to fore ign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Opera- tions Account country must be surrendered; export proceeds must normally be collected and repatriated within 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports require ind iv idual licenses in order to ensure the repatriation of export proceeds. The export of cotton f rom irrigated land, groundnu ts, hides, skins, and meat, which constitute most of the controlled export trade, is reserved for SOMIEX or other state enterprises, but certain mixed enterprises may have a share allocated to them. Under the EXIC procedure, exporters may retain 75 per cent of proceeds from exports except those cov- ered by the monopoly of state trading companies and cotton exported by the Compagnie Fran^aise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT), for pay- ment for their own imports that are made through regu- lar official channels. Balances on EXIC accounts and import rights under the EXIC procedure are not transferable. 4 Exchange for tou r ist travel purposes is made available on ly to per- sons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. MALI Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad; the Development Bank of Mali is exempt. The special control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) or to countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Under an Investment Code of May 23, 1969 and Law No. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment, to foreign invest- ments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible w i th the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Mali for num isma t ic purposes and for ornaments. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minis- try of Finance and Commerce; such licenses are not norma l ly granted. Changes during 1972 January I. Following the expiration on December 31, 1971 of the b i la teral paymen ts agreement w i th Bulgaria, settlements with that coun t ry henceforth took place in convertible currencies. February. C i rcu lar No. 5 of December 8, 1971 was revoked, which had provided that f rom December 10 Foreign Accounts in Ma l ian Francs could no longer 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI be debited for purchases of fore ign currency in either exchange market, and that f rom December 14 the Ministry of Finance and Commerce was authorized to direct into blocked accounts any balances in excess of November 30 levels. May. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, a number of current transactions were shifted f rom the financial f ranc market to the official exchange marke t. The principal current pay- ments and receipts that con t inued to be channeled through the financial f r anc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remittances. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Malta Pound, corresponding to £M 0.416667 = SDR 1. A central rate of 2 .18613 grams of fine gold per Malta pound has been established, corresponding to £M 1 = US$2.67086, and Ma l ta avails itself of wider margins. As at the end of 1972, the prescribed margins were not, for the time being, being observed, and the Central Bank quoted da i ly rates for sterling based on developments in the p r inc ipal exchange ma rke ts abroad. The Cen t ral Bank of Ma l ta 's basic rate for the pound sterling on December 29, 1972 was £107.50 buy ing, and £107.250 selling, per <£M 100. Commercial bank rates for non-S ter l ing Area currencies are based on Lon- don m a rk et rates for sterling against other currencies. The banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar on December 29, 1972 were US$2.5237 and US$2.5178 per <£M 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank as agent for the M in i s ter of Finance and Cus- toms, and for the Accountant General; trade controls are.. administered by the Director of Trade in the Min- istry of Trade, Industry, Ag r icu l tu re, and Tourism. Certain au tho r i t ies to approve app l ica t ions for the al- location of fore ign exchange have been delegated to the au thor ized banks. Prescription of Currency Malta is a member of the Sterling Area ,2 although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Authorized pay- ments to all countries may be made by crediting Malta pounds to an External Account or in any currency other than Malta pounds; the proceeds of exports to all coun- tries may be received in sterling or Malta pounds from an External Account, in any foreign currency,3 or in any Sterling Area currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments by res- idents of the Sterling Area or the non-Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or any currency other than Malta pounds ( inc lud ing bankno tes), and with Malta * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the Malta pound continued to float. 1 Ear ly in 1973, new exchange control legislation came into opera- tion. This survey presents the regulations in effect at the end of 1972. For the principal modifications resulting from the new legislation, see the December 29 entry at the end of this survey. 2 Malta's exchange control definition of the Sterling Area (the Scheduled Territories) includes Rhodesia and the Libyan A rab Republic. 3 Foreign currencies are defined as all non-Sterling Area currencies. banknotes mailed f rom outside Malta. External Ac- counts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area or the non-Sterling Area, for trans- fers to o ther Ex ternal Accoun ts, for p aym en ts in cash in Ma l ta, and for purchases of any currency other than Ma l ta pounds ( i n c l u d i ng bankno tes) or gold. Blocked Accoun ts are ma in ta ined for non res iden ts of Ma l ta for ce r ta in f u n ds of a cap i tal n a t u re wh ich, u n d er the ex is t ing exchange con trol regu la t ions, may not be t r an s f e r r ed ou ts ide Ma l ta. The pr inc ipal type of f u n ds t h at mu st be credited to a Blocked Account are assets of em ig ran ts in excess of the amount of < £M 5,000 for each f am i ly that may be t rans fe r red to the new c o u n t ry of residence; the rema in ing f u n ds are no rm a l ly released f o ur years a f t er the date of depar ture on application to the Cen tral Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities manu fac tu red in Ma l ta are either prohibited or restricted. All imports f rom A lban ia, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslova- kia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Roman ia, the U. S. S. R., and North Viet- Nam are subject to specific licensing, as are imports of some 80 items f rom any country of origin. Imports f rom countries other than those mentioned that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be freely imported under open general license. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are com- plied w i th and that supporting documen ts are submitted to the in te rmed ia ry bank. Advance payments for im- ports f r om outside the Sterling Area require Central Bank approval. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts to other countries, whether inside or outside the Sterling Area, require the approval of the exchange control authorities; the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized banks for certain types of payment. Current payments to Sterling Area countries are in principle unrestricted. There is a standard exchange allocation for tourist travel outside the Ster- ling Area of the equ iva lent of <£ M 250 a person a year plus on application <£M 250 a person a trip; a business travel allowance of <£M 250 or £M 20 a day (for up to 30 days a trip), wh ichever is the larger; and an allowance for educa t ional expenses outside the Sterling Area of £M 2,000 a person for an academic year.4 Applications for allowances in excess of these amoun ts are approved by the Central Bank if the latter is satisfied 4 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, resi- dents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta in the normal course and either have so lived for at least three years or in tend to con t inue so l iv ing for at least three years. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA that there is no illicit capital outflow involved. Profits, dividends, and interest for approved foreign inves tmen ts may, w i th Central Bank permission, be transferred af ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Life insurance may not be contracted with insurers resident in non- Sterling Area countries. Ma in tenance rem i t tances to beneficiaries outside the Sterling Area are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship; authorized banks may also approve moderate remittances to Sterling Area countries for fam i ly living expenses. Travelers to any destination may export Malta and sterling banknotes up to an aggregate of £ M 25 for each person. Exports of other currencies may be made by resident travelers up to £M 250 for each person (when leaving for a destination outside the Sterling Area) and by nonresident travelers up to <£M 100 for each person or up to the amount brought in, whichever is higher. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war ma te r ia ls are prohibited and, w i th the exception of some 56 items that may be exported free ly, all other exports are sub- ject to specific licensing. The proceeds of exports received in non-Sterling Area currencies are subject to surrender w i th in six months of shipment. There are no su r render requ iremen ts for proceeds received in Sterling Area currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in non-Sterling Area cu r ren- cies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; receipts in Sterling Area currencies need not be sur- rendered. Travelers may b r ing in any amount in Ma l ta and other cu r rency notes. Capital Inward capital t rans fe rs f rom the Sterling Area in excess of <£M 20,000 requ ire exchange control ap- proval. Otherwise, no control is exercised over capital receipts f rom o ther Sterling Area countries or f rom coun t r ies outside the S te r l ing Area. Receipts in non- Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized b ank, and paymen ts of a capital na ture in those cu r renc ies as well as cer ta in paymen ts in Sterling Area currencies require prior approval. Applications for direct inves tment ou ts ide the Sterling Area by residents of Ma l ta and for direct inves tment in Ma l ta by non- residents of the Sterling Area are considered on the ir merits. The purchase of real estate in Ma l ta by non- Sterling Area residents through a resident procura tor requires exchange control approval but is norma l ly not restricted; such purchases by foreign nationals tak ing up permanent residence in Ma l ta af ter November 14, 1972 are restricted to the dwelling they live in. Purchases of all securities issued outside Malta require prior permis- sion f rom the authorities. However, permission is not normally granted for the acquistion of securities or the 324 placing of funds outside Malta. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta require prior exchange control approval and are not normally permitted to res- ident nationals. Non-Sterling Area nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling Area and Sterling Area nationals who repatriate to a territory of the Sterling Area, normally are allowed to t ran s fer all the ir sterling assets to their coun t ry; in certain circumstances, how- ever, restrictions may be placed on sterling assets acqu ired, other than by way of income or capital appre- c ia t ion, while the person has been resident in Malta. Maltese who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling Area may t rans fer abroad up to <£M 5,000 for each f am i l y; any excess amount is no rm a l ly released four years a f t er the da te of depa r tu re on application to the Cen tral Bank. Banks, o ther than those licensed to borrow and lend ou ts ide Ma l ta only, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets, and they may not borrow outside Ma l ta at interest rates in excess of 3 per cent. Gold Residents other than au thor ized banks and registered jewelers are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any fo rm other than coins or jewe lry, at home or abroad. Residents may f ree ly purchase, sell, and hold any gold coins m in ted in or before 1837, but Central Bank permission is required for the purchase, sale, or continued holding (except by those who held not more than four post-1837 coins on December 23, 1966) of any gold coins m in ted a f t er 1837. Authorized dealers in gold are perm i t ted to import gold coins for numis- ma t ic purposes f rom Sterling Area countries and vir- tua l ly any other coun try. A specific import license is requ ired for imports of gold coins, gold bu l l ion, and m anu f a c tu r ed or sem imanu fac tu red articles of gold; impor ts of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Authorized banks are permitted to import gold (bu l l ion and coins) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewe le rs and o ther indus t r ial users, w i th in an annu al quo ta that is d iv ided among indu s t r ial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary au thor i t ies requires the permission of the exchange control au tho r i t ies; such permission is not normally g ran ted, and the export of gold bullion is prohibited. Gold bu l l ion and gold coins are free of import du ty. Changes during 1972 Dur ing the year a number of items were added to the list of commodities requiring individual import licenses. May 5. An agreement was entered into between the Central Bank of Ma l ta and the Sovereign Order of St. John. The Order was given exclusive rights for the sale for num isma t ic purposes of Maltese gold and silver coins. (In December it was announced that four gold coins which would be legal tender would shortly be issued .) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 15. It was announced that most restrictions on investment outside Malta were to be lifted. (The deci- sion was implemented on February 5, 1973. At that time, the prohibition on outward portfolio investment by residents was revoked, as the Central Bank an- nounced it was prepared to approve all applications for the purchase of foreign exchange to be invested abroad w th in the equivalent of <£ M 500 a person over 21 years of age for each calendar year .) June 23. Malta ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 30. Nonresident accounts in Malta pounds held by residents of the Sterling Area were redesignated as External Accounts. July 1. Dealings in foreign exchange, which had been suspended since sterling was floated on June 23, were resumed. The Central Bank quoted daily buy ing and selling rates for sterling, in i t ia l ly at <£ stg. 105.375 and £ stg. 105.625, respectively, per <£M 100. July 3. It was announced that in f u t u re the rates quoted for sterling would vary with changes in inter- national foreign exchange markets. The value of the Malta pound would henceforth be determined at a level between that of sterling and that of the currencies of the other ma jor European countries. As a result, the Malta pound began to appreciate in terms of sterling and to depreciate in terms of U. S. dollars. August 25. The Central Bank Act was amended so as to empower the authorities to allow the Malta pound to move beyond 1 per cent either side of its parity with other currencies. November 14. New conditions came in to effect for foreign na t iona ls wishing to take up permanent resi- dence in Ma l ta. The m in imum annual income required for fore ign persons retiring in Malta was raised f rom <£ stg. 1,800 to £ stg. 4,000 (or £ stg. 1,500 for each member of the f am i ly over 21, whichever was the g r e a t e r ), and such persons were required to hold and MALTA have available du r ing their stay a capital of not less than £ stg. 20,000. Other foreign nationals were required to keep available while residing in Malta a sum of <£ stg. 100,000. Investment in buildings by both types of foreign nationals was limited to the purchase of the one house in which they would reside. December 29. The Exchange Control Act, 1972 was enacted. It came into force on February 1, 1973, when it replaced the Exchange Control Ordinance, 1959. The Act designated all currencies other than the Ma l ta pound as foreign currencies, defined all persons not resident in Ma l ta as nonresidents, and provided a new definition of "residents." Hence, all provisions of the law had global application. (P rev ious ly, a distinction was made between Scheduled Territories and the rest of the world; the Scheduled Territories under Malta's former exchange control regulations were the territories of the Sterling Area, Rhodesia, and the Libyan Arab Republic, and foreign currencies were defined as all non-Sterling Area currencies .) The Act also gave force of law to a previously exist- ing administrative arrangement by prohibiting any re- striction on payments in respect of (a) any sums real- ized f rom the sale or liquidation of any property in Malta acquired with f u n ds originally brought from out- side Malta and invested in such property by persons who were nonresidents at the time of the investment, and (b) any sums originally brought f rom outside Malta by a person who was not a citizen of Malta, when the payment was made upon such person leaving Malta to take up residence elsewhere. The Act introduced reporting requirements in respect of residents' foreign assets. Exempt were persons in Malta holding a valid resident permit in terms of the Immigration Act, 1970. Such persons were also exempt f rom the requirement that residents ob ta in prior permis- sion for all foreign investment. (See also the May 15 entry, above .) 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA Exchange System * No par va lue for the cu r rency of M au r i t an ia has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is o f f ic ia l ly m a in t a in ed at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange trans- actions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afr ique de FOuest (BCEAO) and com- mercial banks take place at the ra te of CFAF 1 — F 0.02, f ree of commission charges. Exchange transac t ions re la t ing to coun tr ies other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange ra te for the fore ign cur- rency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial f r a nc ma rke t. Settlements eligible for the official exchange ma rket are paymen ts and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other cu r rent transactions, as well as cu r rent paymen ts by or in favor of domestic and foreign pub l ic au thor i t ies and public bodies. All other settlements with countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, as well as transac t ions in banknotes of such other coun- tries and bankno tes issued by the BCEAO, take place through the financial f r anc ma rket at freely fluctuating rates. The pr inc ipal current paymen ts and receipts chan- neled through the financial market are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remit- tances. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effec t ive par i ty relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 - US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the Minister of Finance and Commerce, who also supervises borrow- ing abroad, the issu ing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Mau r i tan ia, inward direct invest- ment and all ou twa rd inves tmen t, the purchase abroad of domestic and fore ign securities, and the solicitation of f u n ds in Mau r i tan ia for placement in foreign coun- tries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the Government Commis- sioner, who in tu rn has delegated some approval author- ity to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or th rough the in te rmed ia ry of the banks and the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile the ba lance of p aym en ts statistics. * Following the a n n o u n c em e nt on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the exchange ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was ma in ta ined, and the effec t ive pa r i ty relationship for the U. S. dol- lar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. La ter in the year Mau r i tan ia issued its own cu r rency. 1 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Cen tra le des E ta ts de 1'Afr ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 326 All exchange transac t ions re la t ing to foreign countries must be effected through au thor ized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Depart- ment in the M in i s t ry of Finance and Commerce, which also issues import cer t if ica tes for liberalized commodi- ties and export certificates. All impo rt licenses and import certificates requ ire exchange control approval by the Na t ional Exchange Control Office in the M in is try of Finance and Commerce. The Na t ional Impo rt and Export Corporation (SON IMEX) has a monopo ly over impor ts of sugar, tea, rice, and cer ta in textiles and over exports of gum arabic. Prescription of Currency Mau r i tan ia is an Operations Account coun t ry of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settle- men ts with France ( i n c l u d i ng its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and the o ther Opera t ions Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f ranc s, French francs, or the cu r rency of any other Operations Account coun try. Settlements w i th all other countries are usually made th rough correspondent banks in France in any of the currenc ies of those coun tr ies or in French f rancs th rough Foreign or Financial Accounts in Francs. All settlements w i th Israel, Por tuga l, and South Africa are proh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are similar in certain respects to those applied in France. However, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other in s t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is proh ib i ted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Israel, Po r tuguese, and South A f r i c an origin a n d / or p rovenance are proh ib i ted. The impo rt of a few goods is prohibited f rom any source for reasons of health or pub l ic policy. With these exceptions, imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area and f rom EEC coun t r ies other th an France are free of quan- titative restrictions. Most impo r ts f r om o ther coun tr ies are adm i t ted in accordance w i th an a n n u al impo rt pro- g ram, determined each year by a jo int French- M a u r i t a n i an Committee. Imports f r om a ll coun tr ies requ ire an import license. There are three l ibe ra l iza t ion lists, applicable respectively to the fo rmer OEEC area, to the Un i ted States and Canada, and to all coun t r ies outside the French F ranc Area. On ly holders of importer-exporter cards are pe rm i t ted to engage in import transac t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SONIMEX has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. Import transactions re la t ing to countries of the French Franc Area must be domiciled w i th an au thor- ized bank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 100,000, and impo rt t ransac t ions re la t ing to other fo re ign coun- tries when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 20,000. A f t er the approval (visa) of the Na t ional Exchange Office has been ob ta ined, the impo rt license or import certificate entitles the impor ter to purchase the necessary exchange, but not ear l ier than eight days before shipmenit if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Advance paymen ts for imports require prior approval by the N a t i o n al Exchange Office. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the app roval of the Government Commis- sioner, who has delegated his approval authority for certain specified paymen ts and subject to conditions laid down in circulars, to authorized banks. For tourist and business travel, residents traveling to any foreign country may obtain an annual exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 50,000 a person (CFAF 25,000 for children under t e n ). For business travel, a higher allocation may be granted only with special authorization by the Government Commis- sioner. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner wo rk ing in Mau r i tan ia is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident travelers may freely take out BCEAO banknotes up to CFAF 75,000 when going to France or a member country of the West African Monetary Union, or up to CFAF 10,000 when traveling to ano ther foreign coun t ry. Nonresident trav- elers may freely take out up to CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, up to CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes they had previously brought in, and any amount of travelers checks and letters of credit issued in their name in a foreign country. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds (engagement de change). Exports to all countries outside the French Franc Area require an export license or an export attes- tation. Export proceeds must be surrendered by sale on the exchange market within two months of the due date MAURITANIA of the paymen t, wh ich must not n o rm a l ly be more than 90 days a f ter the arrival of the goods at the ir destination. Exports of gum arab ic are the monopo ly of SONIMEX. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in inv i s ib les must be sur- rendered. A ll amoun ts due f r om nonres iden ts in respect of services and all income earned abroad f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in two months of the due date of the paymen t. Resident and nonresident travelers may free ly b r ing in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO as well as any amount of fore ign bankno tes and coins (except gold co in s ). Capital Transfers of capital between Mau r i tan ia and Israel, Portugal, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Capital move- ments between Mau r i tan ia and all fore ign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Maur i tan ia may require approva l, as indicated below. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward inves tmen t, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Mauri- tania, and over the solicitation of funds in Mauritania for placement in foreign countries; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. All investments abroad by residents of Maur i tan ia require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Commerce. Foreign direct investments in Mauri- tania 2 and Mau r i tan ian direct investments abroad,3 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Com- merce before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The f u ll or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires declara- tion. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign investments in Maur i tan ia, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Commerce within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not 2 Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. 3 Including those made th rough the intermediary of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauri- tania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies in Mauritania. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Maur i tan ia requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Commerce. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in con- nection w i th loans backed by a guarantee from the Maur i tan ian Government. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Commerce. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special au tho r iza t ion of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f rom special authorization. Furthermore, such prior approval is required for the repayment of all amounts borrowed abroad prior to the publication of Decree No. 72.249 of November 27, 1972. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. The Investment Code (Law No. 71.028 of February 2, 1971) provides for various benefits for private invest- ments in Mauritania. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Maur i tan ia. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance and Commerce. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a m inor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a max imum weight to be determined by the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Imports of gold coins and of unworked gold are subject to a tax of 20 per cent ad valorem, in addition to any customs duty that may be applicable. Changes during 1972 January 3. The prohibition introduced on September 1, 1971 on the payment of interest on nonresident f ranc accounts was revoked. January 10. Law No. 27-014 made the taxe d'inter- ventions conjoncturelles (introduced by Law No. 70-224 of July 17, 1970) applicable to most imports. For gold 328 coins and precious metals the rate of tax was set at 20 per cent. The principal exemptions were for tea, rice, sugar, and pharmaceutical products. July 6. Circular No. 779 provided that domestic and foreign securities accruing in Mauritania to a nonresi- dent by donation could henceforth be placed in a foreign securities dossier. July 6. Circular No. 780 raised to CFAF 500,000 the value beyond which exports and imports (in trade with foreign countries) must be domiciled. Previously, the amount for exports was CFAF 50,000 and that for imports was CFAF 20,000. July 7. Order No. 461 provided that the exchange allocation for foreign travel could also be taken up in the form of travelers checks denominated in French francs. The use abroad of credit cards, previously pro- hibited, was permitted up to half the amount of any travel allocation. The amounts of domestic and foreign means of payment that nonresident travelers could take out were modified; the amount of foreign banknotes they could export without approval or documentation was increased f rom the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 to CFAF 175,000. July 7. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, Order No. 462 shifted a number of current transactions from the financial f ranc market to the official market. The principal current payments and receipts that continued to be channeled through the financial franc market were travel expenses, investment income, and workers' remittances. November 27 (this and all other measures of November 27 that are listed below took effect on November 29). Presidential Decree No. 72.248 created a Government Commissariat attached to the Ministry of Finance and placed under the authority of a Com- missioner appointed by decree. The Commissioner would assist the Minister of Finance in the execution of his func t ions with respect to exchange control and control over banks and financial institutions. The Minis- ter could delegate to the Commissioner part or all of these responsibilities. Banks, financial institutions, and the Postal Administration were required to communi- cate to the Commissioner, once a week, all movements of transfers between Mauritania and other countries. They were also required to communicate to the Com- missioner the monthly position of banks as addressed to the BCEAO. November 27. Order No. 794 delegated to the Gov- ernment Commissioner the responsibilities of the Minis- ter of Finance with respect to exchange control and the control over financial institutions. November 27. Presidential Decree No. 72.249 revoked Article 1 of Decree No. 69.383 of November 21, 1969 (relating to certain investment and borrowing opera- tions with foreign countries) and modified Articles 8 and 9 of that Decree. Article 1 (by referring back to Decree No. 735 of December 24, 1968) had for pur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution poses of these transactions defined foreign countries as countries other than France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries, and had defined nonresidents as residents of countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. The modifica- tion of Article 8 implied that henceforth inwa rd t rans- fers f rom the countries men t ioned, when made for investment purposes, had to be effected through the intermediary of an authorized bank and by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange ma rke t. The modifica- tion of Ar t ic le 9 imp l ied that hencefor th the pr ior authorization of the M in is ter of Finance for ou tward transfers of the l iqu ida t ion proceeds of direct and other investments was also required when these proceeds were to be transferred to France, Monaco, or an Operations Account country. November 27. Presidential Decree No. 72.250 revoked Title I, Article 2, Section 2, as well as Title III of Decree No. 69.384 of November 21, 1969 ( re la t ing to certain financial transactions with foreign coun t r ies ). The first action made the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance necessary for the issuing, advertis- ing, or o f fe r ing for sale in Mau r i tan ia of foreign securi- ties similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Maur i tan ia had previously been authorized. The second action implied that persons habitually resident in Mau r i tan ia no longer could take out BCEAO bankno tes in excess of CFAF 150,000 (subject to customs declaration o n l y) when traveling to France, Monaco, or any Operations Account country that was not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union. The new Decree also revoked Article 2 of Decree No. 67.129 of June 30, 1967, and redefined "foreign countries" for purposes of the new Decree as all coun- tries not included in the terr i tory of Maur i tan ia. November 28. The President announced that Maur i- tania would issue its own currency to replace the CFA franc and would take over f u ll control of its credit policy. Mau r i tan ia would seek revision of its coopera- tion agreement w i th the West A f r ican Monetary Union and establish its own central bank but would maintain the closest possible relations w i th the French Franc Area. It wou ld, however, seek revision also of the cooperation agreements signed in 1961 w i th France. November 29. A large number of new exchange con- trol measures went in to effect in accordance with the Decrees, Orders, and Circulars specified above under date of November 27 and below under date of Novem- ber 29. The fo l low ing were some of the ma in aspects: ( 1) The automatic t rans fer abroad of profits was sus- pended, but the in ten t ion was announced to completely liberalize such transfers soon. (2) Payments for imports henceforth required prior exchange control approval from the Ministry of Finance, in the fo rm of a visa of the Exchange Control Office on the import license, but in principle that visa would always be granted. ( 3) The extension of exchange control to the French Franc Area MAURITANIA implied also the introduction by Mau r i tan ia of restric- tions on the freedom of circulation of BCEAO currency w i th in the West A f r i c an Mone tary Un ion (and the rest of the Franc A r e a) and on the freedom of t rans fe rs within that Un ion (and the rest of the Franc A r e a ). (4) The ex is t ing impo rt and export licensing require- ments became applicable also to t rade with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies. November 29. Order No. 781 established certain new rules for the application of Decree No. 68.338 of December 16, 1968 and revoked all regu la t ions incon- sistent with the new Order. It defined fore ign countries as all countries not included in the terr i tory of Mau r i- tania, and residents as ( 1) physical persons hav ing their hab i tual residence in M au r i t an ia and (2) M a u r i t a n i an and fo re ign ju r id ical persons w i th respect to the ir establishments in Mau r i tan ia. The Order listed the types of payments to fore ign coun tr ies that were generally permitted and required the prior au thor iza t ion of the Minister of Finance for all other ou tward payments. Accounts in Mauritania opened in the names of non- residents could no longer be credited with banknotes of the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue ma in ta in ing an operations account with the French Treasury. Residents were required to collect and, where payment took place in foreign currency, to sell on the exchange market, all sums subject to the repatriation obligation, w i th in two months of the due date of the payment. For exports, the due date of the payment was considered the due date stipulated in the commercial contract; the latter could not, in principle, be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destina- tion. Residents and nonresidents holding in Mauritania any fore ign securities, fore ign currency, or titles repre- senting a claim on a foreign country, were required to deposit these w i th in one mon th of pub l ica t ion of the Order. November 29. Order No. 782 introduced new exchange allocations for travel to foreign countries. Exchange allocations henceforth were required also for travel to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries, and the existing allocations, previously applicable only to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, were reduced. For pur- poses of this Order, resident travelers were defined as physical persons of any na t iona l i ty hab i tua l ly resident in Mauritania for at least six months. An annual travel allocation was established of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person (CFAF 25,000 for ch i ldren under t e n ), of which not more than half could be taken up in foreign banknotes; higher allocations could in excep- tional cases be authorized by the M in is ter of Finance for business trips. (Previously, the tourist travel alloca- tion was the equivalent of CFAF 175,000 a person a trip, or CFAF 87,500 a trip for chidren under ten, and was available for any number of trips a year.) The requirement of a personal travel exchange booklet was reintroduced. In add i t ion to the ir exchange allocation, 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA resident travelers could take w i th them up to CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO bankno tes (up to CFAF 75,000 when going to France or a member country of the West A f r i c an Mone ta ry U n i o n ). The impo rt by trav- elers of BCEAO bankno tes and fore ign means of pay- ment rema ined unrestricted. Nonres ident trave lers could f r e e ly take out ( 1) BCEAO bankno tes up to CFAF 10,000; (2) any for- eign bankno tes they had prev ious ly brought in up to CFAF 25,000; and ( 3) any other means of paymen t, such as le t ters of credit and travelers checks, drawn up abroad in the ir names. November 29. C i r cu l ar No. 2 of the Ministry of Finance indicated the au thor iza t ion and control pro- cedures for ou tward paymen ts in accordance with Order No. 781 of November 29. It specified how appli- cations for a t r an s f er permit had to be subm i t ted by the public and how banks had to report the t ran s fe rs executed. November 29. C i rcu lar No. 3 made exports to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries subject to domiciliation and to surrender of the exchange proceeds. The va lue beyond which exports must be domiciled was reduced f rom CFAF 500,000 to CFAF 50,000. Exporters had to sign a repa tr ia t ion commitment when domiciling their transaction with an authorized bank, as well as a customs export attestation. November 29. Circular No. 4 prescribed the m ann er in which authorized banks must report to the exchange control authorities all transfers received f rom abroad and all payments to nonresidents made by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. November 29. Circular No. 5 indicated the condi- tions under which fam i ly remittances could be made by resident physical persons of any na t iona l i ty to relatives residing abroad. The basic allocation for such t rans fe rs was set at the equivalent of not more than CFAF 20,000 an app l icant a month. The amoun ts transferred had to be noted in the applicant's travel exchange booklet but wou ld not be set off against his annual tour ist t ravel a l loca t ion. November 29. Circular No. 6 made imports from France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries subject to domiciliation; the requirement was applica- ble on ly to imports valued at more than CFAF 100,000. The value beyond which imports f rom other countries required domiciliation was reduced from CFAF 500,000 to CFAF 20,000. The effective importation had to be documented by a customs attestation. Spot exchange for imports could be purchased ( 1) if a documentary credit was opened, upon submission of evidence that the goods would be shipped to Maur i tan ia w i th in eight days; (2) if the goods had already been imported, not earlier than eight days before the due date of the pay- ment as established in the commercial contract; and (3) for advance or ins ta l lment payments, at the time when the payment was being made. November 29. Circular No. 7 specified all types of outward payments that the authorized banks could approve under delegated authority. For emigrants' transfers, this au thor i ty was limited to CFAF 100,000 a person; no such ceiling was set for the t rans fer of repatriates' fund s. The delegated au tho r i ty for transfers of dowries was set at CFAF 250,000. November 29. C ircu lar No. 8 mod if ied Circular No. 1 /MF of J a n u a ry 5, 1970 concern ing investment abroad, fore ign investment in Mau r i tan ia, and borrow- ing abroad, which C ircu lar prev ious ly was not applica- ble in relations with France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries. Chap ter 2 of Title I (regard- ing the l iqu ida t ion of inves tmen ts ab road) was revoked. Certain existing exemptions f rom the prior approval requ i rement for borrowing abroad also were revoked, notably that for indus t r ial enterprises to finance opera- tions executed abroad and that for any type of enter- prise to finance impor ts in to Mau r i tan ia or exports f rom Mau r i tan ia. Prior au tho r iza t ion became required for the repayment of all amoun ts borrowed abroad before the publication of Decree No. 72.249 of November 27, 1972. November 29. Circular No. 9 ind ica ted the circum- stances in which authorized banks could transfer abroad the salaries of officials seconded abroad. November 29. Circular No. 10 indicated the scope of the general permission granted to authorized banks to make transfers abroad on behalf of insurance com- panies and insurance agents. For several types of such transfers, inc lud ing capital paymen ts in respect of l i fe insurance, the delegated authority was limited to the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion. All transfers not covered by the delegated authority required the prior approval of the Government Commissioner. November 29. A Na t ional Exchange Control Office was re-established. December 27. Mau r i tan ia gave the BCEAO notice that it would withdraw f rom membership w i th effect from Ju ly 1, 1973. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.159961 gram of fine gold per Mau r i t ian Rupee, correspond ing to Rs 5.55555 — SDR 1 or Re 1 = US$0.195429. No transac t ions take place at the par va lue. The official ra te for sterling is Re 1 = £0.075, and the cu r rency issuing au tho r i ty, the Bank of Mau r i t iu s, m a in t a ins fixed rates for sterling of Rs 13.36% selling, and Rs 13.31% buy ing, per «£ stg. 1. Consequently, the Mau r i t ian rupee is floating w i th sterling, and all exchange transactions except those in sterling or currenc ies l inked to sterling take place at fluctuating rates. Commerc ial banks are au thor ized to deal with customers in sterling at spot rates based on the rates of the Bank of Mau r i t ius and in other fore ign currencies J at rates based on the London ma rket rates. The commercial banks' rates for sterling on Decem- ber 31, 1972, were Rs 13.25 buying and Rs 13.40 selling per <£ stg. 1, and for the U. S. dollar the rates were Rs 5.64 buy ing and Rs 5.75 selling ( f or trans- actions in excess of US$12,000). A d ifferent effective rate results f rom the application of a stamp duty of 35.70 per cent to ou tward capital transfers other than transfers of bank ing funds and to paymen ts for gold coins and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The authority for approving practically all current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency Mauritius has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory for the purposes of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947, but under current U. K. exchange control regula- tions continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. For prescription of currency purposes Mau r i t ius distinguishes between Sterling Area countries 2 and External Account countries. Payments to residents of Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any Sterling Area currency. Payments from residents of the Sterling Area may be received in rupees f rom a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries * Following the announcement on February 2, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the Mau r i t ian rupee con t inued to float with sterling. 1 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign cur- rencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. 2 The exchange control regulations of Maur i t ius def ine the Sterling Area as compr is ing the United K ingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland. outside the S ter l ing Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an Ex te rnal Account in Mau r i t iu s, in s t e r l ing to an Ex te rnal Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in any non -S te r l ing Area cu r rency other than Rhodesian cu r rency. Paymen ts f r om resi- den ts of coun tr ies outside the S ter l ing Area may be received in rupees f rom an Ex ternal Account in Mau r i t iu s, in s ter l ing f rom an Ex te rnal Account in the United K ingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian cu r rency. Special regu la t ions a p p ly to se t t lemen ts w i th Rhodes ia. Nonresident Accounts There are two m a in types of nonres ident accoun ts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by persons and firms resident in countries of the Sterling Area (see foo tno te 2), may be credited w i th (1) author- ized paymen ts by residents of Mau r i t ius; (2) any trans- fers from other Sterling Area Accounts; ( 3) any pay- ments from External Accounts held in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area; and ( 4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any fore ign cur- rency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius. They may be debited for ( 1) payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area to residents of Maur i t ius; (2) transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts; ( 3) transfers to External Accounts in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities in the appropriate Sterling Area country has been given; and ( 4) the cost of purchase of any Sterling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be credited with ( 1) authorized pay- ments by residents of Maur i t ius; (2) payments from Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities of the appropri- ate Sterling Area country has been given; (3) any trans- fers from other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) any payments to resi- dents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; ( 3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius realized from invest- ments made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Rs 67,000. Such accounts may be credited with pay- 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS ments by residents of Mauritius that have been specifi- cally authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for which a specific license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required regard- less of origin. All other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual traders when imported f rom countries of the Sterling Area (as defined before J u ne 23, 1972 ), but most of these goods require a specific license when imported f rom non- Sterling Area coun tr ies. General licenses are granted l ibera l ly. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requ iremen ts. The issue of a general or specific license au toma t ica l ly carries with it exchange control au thor i ty to make the corresponding import payments, subject to compliance with the prescription of currency regu la t ions. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control author- ities. The basic travel allowance for tourist purposes is the equivalent of £250 a person a year for travel to any country in the world except Rhodesia. The allow- ance for business travel purposes is the equivalent of £250 a trip or £20 a day up to a maximum of £1,000 a trip for travel to countries of the Sterling Area (as defined before June 23, 1972), or up to a total of £750 a t r ip for travel to countries outside the Sterling Area. App l ica t ions for exchange for business travel are exam ined by the Bank of Mauritius when exceeding the equ iva lent of £250 a person a trip. There are also established limits for payments and transfers to Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of fam i ly support, salary remittances by non -Mau r i t ian nationals, trade com- missions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mau r i t iu s, royalties, profes- sional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amoun ts exceeding the stand- ard allocations may be subm i t ted to the exchange con- trol authorities. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any fo re ign cu r rency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Also prohibited, 332 unless permission is obtained from the Financial Secre- tary, are exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art. All exports valued at more than Rs 1,000 and all exports of food valued at over Rs 50 require a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar, and a 6 per cent export tax is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet pay- ments for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an author- ized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but not more than Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restric- tions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country in the Sterling Area (see foo tno te 2) on payment of a 35.70 per cent stamp du ty (a du ty of 34 per cent p lus a sur- charge of 5 per cent the reon ); they may, subject to permission, which is freely granted, also transfer a reasonable amount of capital to External Account Area countries on payment of the stamp du ty. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capital to any coun t ry; transfers are subject to the payment of stamp du ty at the rate of 35.70 per cent and, if directed toward a country outside the Sterling Area by a resident of the Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities of the Sterling Area country con- cerned. Foreign-owned companies may free ly transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Per- mission for the repatriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the coun try of origin, but is, in normal circumstances, given for capital brought in on or a f ter that date. Pro- ceeds f rom the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp du ty, the equ iva lent of Rs 67,000 from their Mau r i t ian assets when emigrating to any country except Rhodesia; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an inde f in i te period to a Blocked Account; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold in the form of numismatic coins (including a commemorative gold coin of Rs 200 issued by Mauritius in 1971) or personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Changes during 1972 May 12. Mauritius signed an agreement by which it would become associated with the EEC under the Yaounde Convention. The association did not come into effect in 1972. May 24. An initial par va lue was established of MAURITIUS 0.159961 gram of fine gold per Mauritian rupee, corre- sponding to the previous central rate of Rs 5.55555 = SDR 1. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at Re 1 = US$0.195429. Mauritius continued to avail itself of wider margins. June 23. Mauritius ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory of the Sterling Area. June 23. The official rate for sterling was main- tained at Re 1 = £0.075. As a result, the Mauritian rupee was allowed to float with sterling and began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. September 29. Government Notice No. 117 amended the Exchange Control (Paymen ts) Order, 1966, with retroactive effect f rom June 23, 1972, so as to define the Sterling Area as meaning the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland. As a result, the nonresident accounts of residents of the Overseas Sterling Area countries that on June 23 had ceased to be Scheduled Territories under U. K. exchange control legislation were redesig- nated External Accounts. September 29. Capital transfers to External Account Area countries by nonbank residents of Mauritius and by nonresidents resident in Sterling Area countries no longer were channeled through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.0654810 gram of fine gold per Mexican Peso, corresponding to Mex$13.5714 = SDR 1 or Mex$ 12.50 = US$1. The official rates for the U. S. do l lar, the in te rven t ion currency, were Mex$ 12.49 buy- ing, and M e x $ 1 2 . 51 se l l ing, per US$1 on December 30, 1972. Banks may f ree ly engage in exchange transac- tions between the peso and any other currency. There are limited fo rwa rd fac i l i t ies for Mexican pesos. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to forma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with payments agreements with Hungary, Poland, and Yugoslavia, paymen ts for transactions with those coun- tries handled through the Mexican banking system are recorded by the Bank of Mexico through special accounts denominated in U. S. dollars. Payments between Mexico and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela may be settled through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mexican pesos or Central American currencies through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clear- inghouse established by the central banks of Central America. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. A few imports are prohibited. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. For a considerable number of items, import licenses from the Ministry of Indus try and Trade are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such licenses may be subject to quantitative restriction, but most of the items concerned do not require an import license when they originate in LAFTA countries. For specified commodities, "open end" import licenses (permisos ablertos) may be granted that permit limited importation during a specified period of time, such as six months or a year; subject to screening of the import- er's performance, repeated renewal of the license is pos- sible. Applications for import licenses are screened by * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the Bank of Mexico maintained its off ic ial buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar unchanged. 334 the Ministry of Industry and Trade with the aid of com- mittees composed of importers, producers, and consum- ers. Import licenses for leather goods, alcoholic bever- ages, cigarettes, and motorcars and their spare parts are subject to an overall annual limit. Imports of certain goods for which licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Trade are required (unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipe, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewe lry, radio and television sets, and whiskey, wines, and other liquors) are subject to the payment of a fee of usually between 1 per cent and P/2 per cent of the va lue of the import transaction, the proceeds of wh ich are allocated to a f u nd handled by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute ( IMCE) for the promotion of exports. Impor ts by official Mexican agencies are sub ject to prior approval by the Mexican Foreign Trade Ins t i tu te; this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equ iva lent is avail- able, a price d i f fe ren t ial of 15 per cent be ing con- sidered acceptable. Many nonessential imports are sub- ject to an import surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The con- tracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on prop- erty of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requirements apply to the proceeds of exports. Tax remission is granted on exports of cotton and certain manufactured products. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requ i remen ts are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresi- dents. New foreign investment, other than by private individuals, in the capital of Mexican bank ing or insur- ance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as pe tro leum, basic petrochemical production, electric and nuclear energy, railroads, and telecommunications, are reserved to government invest- ment, while new investments in other sectors must have a majority participation of Mexican capital. Borrowing abroad (or within Mexico in foreign cu r rency) by the public sector and by state-owned banks is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Borrowing abroad by pr iva te banks is subject to licens- ing by the Bank of Mexico. Gold Domestic transactions in nonmone ta ry gold are lim- ited to purchases of gold bars by licensed goldsmiths or m anu f a c tu r e r s. With th is excep t ion, residents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Mexico or abroad. The Bank of Mexico does not buy or sell gold in transactions w i th p r iva te banks, individ- uals, or firms. There is a 15 per cent tax on "first hand" sales of new ly mined gold. Producers of gold under- tak ing not to sell it at prices exceeding international quotations plus no rmal opera t ing costs are eligible for a subsidy correspond ing to the f u ll 15 per cent tax when selling new ly m ined gold in Mexico to private banks reselling such gold to licensed goldsmiths or manu fac tu re rs in Mexico. Exports of gold are prohib- ited unless they are made by the Bank of Mexico. Imports of gold are perm i t ted and when licensed by the Bank of Mex ico are f ree of customs du ty. Changes during 1972 Du r ing the year a number of commodities were added to those r equ i r ing an import license. January 7. Specific duties on most imports of machin- ery and electrical equipment were eliminated and ad valorem duties on those commodities were lowered and un if ied at 20 per cent. Official valuation was set at Mex$5 per k i logram. Direct importers of machinery and equ ipment not produced domestically could claim a un i fo rm 65 per cent exemption f rom duties, reducing the effective du ty to 7 per cent of official valuation. January 3. Deposit banks resumed dealings in gold coins, which had been suspended since August 16, 1971. April 12. The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit issued two sets of regulations concerning foreign finan- cial institutions operating in Mexico. These regulated the representation in Mexico of foreign financial insti- tutions and the registration of fore ign financial institu- tions established outside Mexico. Foreign banks were required to submit to the Ministry of Finance applica- tions for both registration and establishment of repre- sentative agencies in Mexico. The activities of regis- tered fore ign financial institutions and their representa- tive agencies became subject to surveillance and to cer- tain limitations, including a prohibition f rom engaging, directly or through third parties, in any operation to attract funds f rom the public, whether by accepting deposits or by issuing securities. The preferential 10 per cent rate of withholding tax on interest collected f rom Mexican residents by foreign financial institutions located outside Mexico was henceforth reserved for institutions duly registered with the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, while for nonregistered institutions the rate would be 20 per cent. MEXICO May 10. The par value of the peso was changed f rom 0.0710937 gram of fine gold to 0.0654810 gram of fine gold per peso. The new par va lue replaced the central rate of Mex$12 .50 = US$1. The parity relation- ship for the U. S. do l lar remained unchanged at Mex$ 12.50 = US$1. July 3. A new reserve requ i rement system was intro- duced for demand deposits in fore ign currency received by banks in the no r th e rn border areas. The marginal reserve requ i rement was reduced f rom 80 per cent to 40 per cent. July 20. To promote indus t r ial decentralization and p r iva te inves tment in less developed areas fiscal incen- tives were o f fe red to certain investments with Mexican ma jor i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion, at least 60 per cent national con- tent in the to tal va lue of production, and a level of remittances abroad of no more than 3 per cent of annual sales. July 25. The Bank of Mexico issued a circular which essentially served to consolidate the existing regulations concerning fore ign exchange, gold, silver, payments under reciprocal credit agreements, foreign financing, and fore ign trade. A general permission was granted for a large number of operations, inc lud ing the receipt of medium-term loans f rom fo re ign banks to finance exports and imports as well as inven tor ies of exportable goods, the endorse- ment of med ium - te rm credits granted by foreign con- tractors to Mexican importers, and, provided their ma- tur i t ies conformed to certain norms, the receipt or endorsement of fore ign credits to finance imports of capital goods. A general permission also was granted to receive deposits f rom, or to sell Mexican securities to, foreign residents other than banks, provided such obligations are registered in the name of a specific person and do not exceed Mex$5 million per person. However, liabili- ties of this type contracted vis-a-vis foreign banks or financial institutions required a specific authorization. "Foreign residents" were defined as firms or individuals domiciled outside the territory of Mexico, regardless of the ir citizenship. July 28. Mexico became a permanent observer of the Andean Group countries. In October, Mexico's status became that of a "working partner." August 13. A scheme of incentives was put into effect to promote the establishment of commercial cen- ters in the northern border zones. In order to qualify, at least half of the goods sold in the commercial center had to be of domestic origin, and imported commodi- ties had to be sold at prices similar to the retail prices prevailing on the U. S. side of the border. October 25. Automobile makers were required to use at least 60 per cent domestically produced components and parts in domestically sold automobiles and at least 40 per cent in exported automobiles. From 1973 to 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 1979 the export-to-import ratio of automobile manufac- turers was to increase f rom 30 per cent to 100 per cent. All companies making auto parts were required to have at least 60 per cent Mexican capital. October 31. The scope of the border industries pro- gram, which originally covered industries within 20 kilometers of the border, was expanded considerably, to include industries established in nonindustrialized areas and along the shores. The administrative regula- tion of export and import transactions under the pro- gram was eased; temporary imports as well as tempo- rary exports were facilitated by a reduction in admin- istrative procedures. November 6. A bill was introduced to regulate the use of foreign technology, patents, and trademarks. Companies domiciled in Mexico would be required to register with a National Register of Technology Trans- fer in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce all agree- ments on the use of foreign trademarks and patents and all forms of technical assistance. Registration could be refused under certain circumstances. (The resulting law came into operation early in 1973.) November 7. A government-controlled company, TABAMEX, was established which was given a monop- oly of the cultivation, distribution, and export of tobacco. December 18. Certain changes in taxation were an- nounced, to become effective on January 1, 1973. The withholding tax on interest earned by registered foreign financial institutions was increased from 10 per cent to 20 per cent. The income tax on fixed-income securi- ties of the banking system was modified to increase rates on bearer securities and administration contracts while rates on nom ina t ive administration contracts were maintained. December 26. A bill providing for a Foreign Invest- ment Law was introduced. The Law would regulate foreign investment in Mexico, in part by consolidating existing legislation, and create a National Foreign Investment Register in the Department of Industry and Commerce, as well as a National Foreign Investment Commission. Applications by foreign companies or indi- viduals to acquire more than 25 per cent of a Mexican company's capital, or over 49 per cent of its fixed assets, would require authorization by the Commission. Foreign participation would, in principle, be limited to 49 per cent even in previously unrestricted activities, but the commission would be empowered to grant exceptions for investment in certain areas and economic sectors. All shares held in Mexican companies by for- eigners must be nominative, and existing bearer shares in companies with ma jor i ty foreign capital must, within 180 days of the Law coming into force, be converted into nominative shares. An investment would be re- garded as foreign also when made by Mexican compa- nies in which a majority of the capital is foreign owned, or by Mexican businesses in which foreigners have the right to control their management. (The Law came into operation in mid-1973.) 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan Dirham, corresponding to DH 5.06049 = SDR 1 or DH 4.66097 = US$1, and Morocco avails itself of wider margins. The rate of the dirham in rela- tion to the French commercial franc is fixed at DH 1 = F 1.09755 or DH 0.9111=F 1; the Bank of Morocco quotes daily buy ing and selling rates for the French financial franc. The Bank of Morocco's buying and selling rates for the "convertible currencies" it nego- tiates x are based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U. S. dollar on December 30, 1972 were DH 4.6550 buying, and DH 4.6764 selling, per US$1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen- tralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to ma r ry (o f f se t) their purchases and sales on behalf of their pr iva te customers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must pur- chase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco each day, at the rates communicated to them by the Bank, the balances of the ir purchases and sales in each cur- rency; compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own purchases and sales of foreign currency in exchange markets abroad. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buying and sell- ing rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travelers checks, and letters of credit expressed in French francs, CFA francs, and the "convertible cur- rencies"; the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replen- ish them at the Bank whenever necessary. Forward exchange transactions are not permitted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Com- merce; they must be countersigned by the Moroccan Exchange Office. Import comm i tmen ts for liberalized goods are signed by the impo r ter h im se l f; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of or ig in of the goods is not the coun try of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Morocco's regulations still make a distinction between the French Franc Area and the so-called area of con- vertibility, but Morocco does apply exchange control also to transactions with the former.2 For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements;3 and (3) all other countries, the so-called area of converti- bility. Settlements w i th the French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in d i rhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be- low); certain settlements with Algeria and Tunisia, how- ever, are made in dirhams, Algerian dinars, and Tuni- sian dinars through special accounts at the three central banks. Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agree- ments accounts established for this purpose. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco (see foo tno te 1 ). Other settle- ments with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. When settlements between Morocco and the French Franc Area take place in French francs, these must be purchased f rom or sold to the Bank of Morocco; it applies the parity rate of DH 0.9111 = F 1 when the transaction passes through the French official exchange market, and its daily quotation for the financial French f r anc when the transaction passes through the financial market in France. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan currency by residents of countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of countries in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for imports ( and related invisibles) * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, Morocco decided to maintain the par value in terms of gold unchanged. The effec t ive par i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dollar became DH 4.19487 = US$1. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. - Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on fore ign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its f inanc ial relations with fore ign coun t r ies are applied also to Morocco. 3 Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- m any, Egypt, Guinea, Hungary, Mali, Poland, and U. S. S. R. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO f rom those countries .4 They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of financial French f rancs (except bankno te s) sold to or bought f rom the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accoun ts may be made free ly. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the so-called area of convertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of impor ts or related invisibles) and with d irhams obtained f rom the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "converti- ble currencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of the "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, including bank- notes. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Converti- ble Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3 ); they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for impor ts and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any non- resident, are credited with funds that may not be trans- ferred abroad. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the same currency group (the area of convertibility, the French Franc Area) or related to the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited without prior approval for purchases of Moroccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to capital increases of Moroccan com- panies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions at the time of issue to long- term or short-term securities with a fixed yield issued by a public Moroccan entity; for custody charges and commissions on securities; and for payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Capital Accounts may also be debited freely for purchases of specified 4 per cent, ten-year government bonds; interest and redemp- tion proceeds are transferable, and the bonds are freely negotiable between nonresidents. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual approval. These include purchases on the Casablanca stock exchange of non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted in Casablanca or of participation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; investments of any k ind, inc lud ing purchases of busi- nesses or business bu i ld ings; lending to residents; pay- ment of local expenses du r ing the holder's stay in Morocco; and g if ts to social, cultural, or religious in- s t i tu t ions. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi- dent funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Specified transactions between Morocco and the two other coun- tries concerned are settled through these accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories applicable to all countries. Goods in List A are liberal- ized. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quo ta, or are subject to state trad ing; for a large number of List B items, no quota is fixed and impor ts are approved according to need (SB i tem s ). In princi- ple, the impo r ta t ion of goods in List C is not permitted. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement d'importation), which does not requ ire adm in is t ra t ive app roval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c. i. f. basis,5 but for goods in List B, an import license (autorisation d'importation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. For all imports the import title —import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import cer- tificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import com- mitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods con- cerned differ or when imports are contracted for on a c. i. f. basis. Import certificates must be domiciled within a period of 15 days from the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import commitments must be domiciled at the time of their subscription. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. Most imports from countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles are authorized by the Exchange Office upon presentation of the neces- sary justification; in several instances the approval 4 Imports f rom the French Franc Area, unless covered by special credit arrangemen ts, must be paid for with "commercial" French f rancs purchased from the Bank of Morocco. 5 C.i.f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authority has been delegated to the banks. The author- ized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction cov- ered by the relevant import or export documents. Earn- ings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's country of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident- owned shares of Moroccan companies hav ing their main office in Morocco has been delegated to the authorized banks by the Exchange Office, provided that the shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange and that the Exchange Office has approved the amount of the dividend to be distributed; the transfer of other divi- dends requires specific approval by the Exchange Office. Undistributed profits remain transferab le indefinitely. Some payments are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his monthly wages or salary if his family does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his family lives in Morocco. The same percentages of their monthly earnings may be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in professions, subject (except for the medical and related professions) to a limit of DH 12,000 a year.6 Subject to a m o n t h ly l im it of DH 300, the same percentages of earnings may also be transferred by for- eign nationals engaged in agricultural, industrial, or commercial activities, or in skilled craf ts. An alloca- tion of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make peri- odic t ran s fe rs abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 5,000 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than banknotes) from their own for- eign assets not subject to surrender requirements. For business travel by persons other than exporters a stand- ard allowance of DH 150 a day is granted; exporters may be granted up to DH 200 a day for up to 60 days a year, up to a limit of 1 per cent of the foreign exchange surrendered during the preceding year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. For study abroad, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 500-700 is granted, provided that no comparable educational facilities are available in Morocco. For family maintenance, there is a monthly allocation of DH 250-300. Travelers are not permitted to take out Moroccan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. Most exports 8 For all wages, salaries, and professional earnings, monthly trans- fers which exceed by more than DH 100 the amount transferred in June 1972 require prior authorization by the Exchange Office. MOROCCO may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All fruits, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported on ly by a state trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation —OCE). That Office also is in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. The surrender of the proceeds to the exporter's bank must take place within one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the ma tur i ty date fixed in the commercial con- tract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds from exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions, and only when they accrue in for- eign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area; Moroccans working abroad must surrender such currencies within one month of re-entry, but are per- mitted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 per cent of the amount surrendered (the currencies so purchased may also include French francs). The importation of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travel- ers may bring in freely foreign banknotes, which need not be declared upon entry. Resident travelers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be surrendered within 15 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittances in respect of the assets of emigrants and transfers of gifts are not normally approved. Exchange allocations for the transfer of inheritances are limited to DH 35,000 per bene- ficiary. Those for the transfer of their assets by repatri- ates vary with the length of their stay in Morocco, from DH 35,000 a family with previous residence of 3 to 5 years to DH 100,000 a family where the period of resi- dence has been 15 to 25 years. Foreign investments in Morocco must be approved by 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO the Exchange Office. Foreign investments approved by the Investment Committee are granted various tax and customs tariff benefits and investment bonuses similar to those granted to domestic investments, in accordance with measures put into effect on February 10, 1961; all new investments that have been approved by, and registered with, the Exchange Office are automatically granted a guarantee of repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of the investment, when the investment has been financed either with convertible currencies or in conformity with the rules governing settlements with other countries. The guarantee of repatriation is freely transferable either between all nonresidents (if the investment has been financed with convertible cur- rencies) or between nonresidents resident in the same country or currency area (if the investment has been financed with other currencies). Proceeds from the liquidation of other investments are credited to Capi- tal Accounts. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between non- residents. All other transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are not normally permitted to engage in short- term borrowing abroad. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca stock exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars or ingots. Imports and exports of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the Warranty Office in the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes, which derives its approval authority from the Minister of Finance. Every year the Minister of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and other users. Gold in the form of coins, ingots, or bars is free from import duty and import taxes. Changes during 1972 During the year the special allocation of 3,500 pesetas for tourists passing in transit through Spain was abol- ished. January 7. The regulations governing the assembly of automobiles and tractors and the manufacture of tires were revised. The minimum domestic content of auto- mobiles was increased to 42 per cent. January 11. The General Import Program for 1972 was announced. It was substantially unchanged in struc- ture from that for 1971. June 26. A special payments arrangement between the Bank of Morocco and the Central Bank of Tunisia was signed. It came into operation on July 1. November 3. The Government announced it would take over all remaining farmland owned by foreign interests. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.0808408 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee, corresponding to NRs 10.9929 = SDR 1 or NRs 10.1250 = US$1, and Nepal avails itself of wider margins. The Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank) maintains fixed buying and selling rates for U. S. dollars and Indian rupees as follows: NRs 10.10-10.20 per US$1, and NRs 139.00-139.15 per 100 Indian rupees; fixed buying and selling rates are also quoted for Burmese kyats, deutsche mark, Swiss francs, Japanese yen, and seven other currencies. The Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for sterling; these are based on daily spot rates against the U. S. dollar in London. Most of Nepal's foreign ex- change transactions are in terms of Indian rupees. Resi- dents may freely purchase Indian rupees f rom Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coins, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of repre- sentatives f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank and the Minis- tries of Finance, Foreign Affairs, and Industry and Commerce, prepares an annual foreign exchange budget for foreign currencies other than the Indian rupee and excluding transactions with the clearing countries. Per- mission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all foreign payments, except paymen ts for certain specified invisibles that require authorization from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. All exchange trans- actions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Rastriya Vanijya Bank. Within Nepal there are 58 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Certain import and export trans- actions, mainly with payments agreement countries, are conducted through a state trading agency, the National Trading Ltd. All trade transactions w i th Bulgaria and Poland are effected by or for the account of the Government. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Nepal on February 20 established a central rate of NRs 12.7390 = SDR 1, corresponding to NRs 10.56 = US$1. The pa r i ty rate for the Ind ian rupee was maintained at NRs 139.10 per 100 Indian rupees. or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the convertible currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nepal has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, mainland China, Pakistan, and Poland; payments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. The agreement with Pakistan is inoperative. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents other than Indian nationals upon request to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks, the balances of which may be freely transferred abroad. Indian nationals are allowed to open current accounts in Indian rupees with Nepalese banks. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods except those originating in India (other than alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and most tobacco products) or the Tibet region require import licenses f rom the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vegetables, vegetable oil, margarine, animal fa t, beef, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of August 13, 1971, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may be imported freely, and imports of all commodities subject to excise duty in India benefit f rom reimbursement of tax by the Gov- ernment of India to the Government of Nepal. With the exception noted below, applications to the Ministry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports from countries other than India are considered on their merits; any application must, however, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget. Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitlements are, within the limits of their entitlement, granted a license automatically for goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for purchases of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. Payments for freight and insurance are given the same treatment as the related import payments. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed up to the equiva- lent of US$1,000 at a time; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transac- tion and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Ind ian nationals only; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is pro- hibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian banknotes may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; however, non- residents other than Indian na t iona ls may not take out Nepalese or Ind ian bankno tes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver, and coins and jewe lry made of these metals, cows, buffaloes, and rhi- noceros horns are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not perm i t ted, and re-exports to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. All other goods may be exported freely. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buying rate of exchange, within six months of shipment. The exporter receives f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank an exporters' exchange entitlement corresponding to a specified pro- portion of his export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce. Although entitlements forma l ly are nontrans- ferable, transfers do take place indirectly through the advance sale of goods to be imported under this system. Exporters engaged in bilateral trade, i.e., those selling to countries with which Nepal maintains payments agreements, are granted entitlements corresponding to 100 per cent of their export earnings; 40 per cent may be used for imports of their choice from the partner country concerned and the remaining 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities from the part- ner country concerned. When exports are made to con- vertible currency countries, exchange entitlements are granted as follows: 20 per cent for raw jute; 40 per cent for musk, bristles, and human hair; 50 per cent for hessian; 70 per cent for timber; 80 per cent for rice and wooden or bamboo goods; 90 per cent for straw board, stainless steel goods, and synthetic clothes; and 60 per cent for all other goods. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must 342 be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an author- ized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies f rom countries other than India is prohibited. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank- notes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents must declare any foreign banknotes they bring in. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but offi- cial exchange is not normally provided for capital remit- tances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries except invest- ment specifically exempted by government notice pub- lished in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institu- tion incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors in Nepal who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent of the total profit on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the principal; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Industrial enterprises capitalized at US$50,000 or more may be wholly owned by nonresi- dents. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports for industrial and handicraft use f rom India, at Indian gold prices, are free of license. No import licenses for gold are issued under the exporters' exchange entitlement scheme. Imports of gold f rom any coun try other than India require a license and are subject to an import duty of NRs 53.20 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to sales tax of 10 per cent. Changes during 1972 January 5, The Nepal Rastra Bank began to quote fixed buying and selling rates for Swiss francs. Sub- sequently, fixed rates were quoted also for Burmese kyats (February 20); French francs, Italian lire, Nether- lands guilders, Austrian schillings, and Swedish kronor (Ju ly 2 4 ); Pakistan rupees (December 2 3 ); and Aus- tralian dollars (revised January 19, 1973). May 13 (May 14, local t im e ). The par value was changed from 0.087770 to 0.0808408 gram of fine gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL The parity relationship for the U. S. dollar and the Indian rupee remained unchanged. All buying and sell- ing rates quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank also remained unchanged. Nepal availed itself of wider margins. May 29. The prohibition on the re-export to India of goods imported from third countries was reinforced. June 26. The Nepal Rastra Bank suspended its pur- chases of sterling. July 3. The Nepal Rastra Bank resumed its purchases of sterling; buy ing and selling rates for sterling hence- fo r th were based on daily spot rates against the U. S. dollar in the London market. The buying and selling rates for the Indian rupee, which was floating with sterling, were ma in ta ined unchanged. September 7. The maximum exchange allowance for board and lodging for students studying abroad at their own expense was increased from US$1,500 a year to US$2,160 a year. December 31. The Government took over all barter trade with overseas countries, i.e., all trade under the bilateral trade and payments agreements with Bulgaria and Poland. December 31. The classification of goods that could be imported under exporters' exchange entitlements was revised. December 31. Indian nationals were allowed to open current accounts in Indian rupees with Nepalese banks. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Exchange Rate System* The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Guilder. The Netherlands has established a central rate of f. 3.2447 = US$1, corresponding to f. 3.52282 = SDR 1, and avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U. S. dollar. Margins of approximately 2% per cent either side of the central rate or the cross-parity are maintained for the U. S. dol- lar, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, and the Norwegian krone, and margins of ll/z per cent either side of the cross-parity for the Belgian franc and, by implication, the Luxem- bourg franc (BF/Lux F 100 = f. 7.24007). The official limits for the U. S. dollar are f. 3.17%6 buying and f. 3.31% selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to deal; the rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for currencies other than those mentioned above vary between limits that result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar main- tained by the Netherlands and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned.1 Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible currencies and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, including guilders on Convertible Guilder Accounts, and inconvertible currencies; they are free to deal with residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an underlying transaction required. Residents are permitted to conclude spot transactions w i th other residents, in c lud ing au thor ized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions for any period with authorized banks. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and on applica- tion are permitted to hold such accounts (normally demand deposits only) in their own names with banks abroad. The guilder proceeds from the sale by nonresidents to residents of officially listed guilder bonds (O-guilders, see section on Capital, below) are traded in a spot mar- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 th at the U. S. do l lar was being deva lued, the Ne the r lands ma in ta ined i ts cen t ral rate in te rms of gold and SDRs. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. do l lar became f. 2.92024 = US$1, corresponding to f. 3.52282 = SDR 1. The new intervention limits for the U .S. dollar were f. 2.8545 and f. 2.9860, and those for the Be lg ian f r a nc f. 0.07132 and f. 0.07349. W i th e f fect f rom March 19, 1973, the Ne the r lands ma in ta ined ma rg ins of up to 21A per cent e i ther side of the cross-parity in exchange t ransac t ions in the o f f ic ial ma rket between the Ne the r lands gu i lder and the Danish k rone, the deu tsche m a r k, the French f r a n c, the No rweg ian krone, and the Swedish k rona; margins of up to ll/2 percent either side of the cross-parity con t inued to be observed for the Belgian f r a nc and the Luxembou rg f r a n c. No announced m a rg ins would be ma in ta ined for other cur- rencies. 1 The cu r renc ies quo ted in the Ams te rdam ma rket inc lude Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 344 ket at free rates. On December 31, 1972, the rate for the O-guilder was about f. 103 per 100 O-guilders. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands Antilles and Surinam are subject to exchange control, although they are generally permitted freely. Vis-a-vis any third coun- tries with which payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import- Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are transit trade transactions, except those in strategic goods and scrap, which are licensed by the CDIU.2 All commercial banks of any importance are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Nether- lands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. There are special regulations, however, for settlements with nonresidents in respect of officially listed guilder bonds (see section on Capital, below). Since there are no bilateral payments agreements, all foreign countries are included in the "convertible guilder area." Payments to countries in the convertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guil- ders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts from countries in the convertible guilder area may be obtained in any convertible currency or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below); however, receipts may also be collected in other currencies, provided that the amounts received are deposited with the Netherlands Bank or an authorized bank. - Me rchan t ing t ran sac t ions i n v o l v i ng Rhodesia are p r o h i b i t e d. Most other transactions are freely permitted by v ir tue of general licenses granted to registered transit traders. The only merchanting transac- tions still subject to a specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods and, w i th in the EEC, of scrap. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments between residents may be made freely in any foreign currency, provided that the amount involved is debited to a foreign currency account in the Nether- lands or abroad and is credited to a foreign currency account in the name of the beneficiary with an author- ized bank in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident guilder accounts are as follows: 3 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers from other Convertible Guilder Accounts, with permitted payments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, with proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible cur- rencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of foreign currencies. Convertible Guilder Accounts may not be debited for the purchase of officially listed guilder bonds, Netherlands treasury paper, or guilder bank acceptances; they may not be credited with interest on demand deposits.4 Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other non- resident account except O-Guilder Accounts. No time deposits may be established on Convertible Guilder Accounts. 2. O-Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident and by those authorized banks and stockbrokers that have been designated authorized depositories. The accounts may be freely credited with (1) the guilder proceeds from the sale of officially listed guilder bonds by nonresidents to residents, and (2) amounts transferred from other O-Guilder Accounts. They may be freely debited for (1) purchases of offi- cially listed guilder bonds by nonresidents f rom residents, (2) amounts transferred to other O-Guilder Accounts, and (3) transfers to Convertible Guilder Accounts. Holders of O-guilders may free ly sell these to other nonresidents or to resident banks and stockbrokers, for foreign currency or convertible guilders. 3 Cer ta in balances and secur i t ies deposits be long ing to non re s iden ts residing in Indones ia are des igna ted W-accounts and W-deposits, respectively; t h e ir disposal must be licensed by the N e th e r l ands B a n k. The re levant regu la t ions were revoked w i th e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 11, 1973. 4 On March 16, 1973 it was announced t h at w i th e f fect f rom March 26 au thor ized b a n ks and au tho r ized depositories wou ld be requ i red to charge a special commission on any increases in ba lances in Convertible Gu i lder Accoun ts over the average c red it balance in the period Feb rua ry 1-February 14, 1973. Exempt were ba lances up to f. 100,000 held by physical persons, associations, societies, t r u s t s, and founda t ions (up to f. 10,000 for accoun ts opened on or a f ter March 30, 1973). The commission, to be t rans fe r red mon th ly to the Netherlands Bank, was initially set by the Ne ther lands Bank at *A per cent a week, but could be set at any level up to 2 per cent a week. With e f fect f rom May 7 the commission was set at zero per cent. NETHERLANDS Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union are free from import licenses. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of un- known origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products mainly from the agricultural and textile sectors. Except for imports from Rhodesia, practically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports f rom Eastern European countries are formally liberalized. Commodities corresponding to some 19 tariff headings or subheadings are subject to quantita- tive restriction when originating in Japan. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non- EEC countries of most other agricultural and live- stock products. Certain agricultural imports of non- Benelux EEC origin or originating in third countries are subject to compensatory levies. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodi- ties,5 but they require prior approval from the Nether- lands Bank to accept credit for periods in excess of those traditional in the trade concerned; such permis- sion is not normally granted. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided in any currency and up to any amount, and the entire amount may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. A resi- dent traveling abroad may in addition have any further amounts remitted to him through banking channels. Exchange purchased for travel purposes must not be spent for other purposes; it may be used for purchases for personal use, however. Payments for interest, divi- dends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate non- resident account. The export of domestic or foreign banknotes by resi- dent travelers is not subject to limitation. Nonresidents may export all unutilized negotiable instruments and for- eign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or exchanging other curren- cies. The export of Netherlands silver coins by travelers is limited to f. 25 a person a trip; this limit is not appli- cable to 10-guilder coins.6 5 Commodities are so defined as to exclude gold. 6 With e f fect from January 1, 1973 silver coins ceased to be legal tender and the l im i ta t ion was revoked. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; those which are permitted require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a number of commodities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural prod- ucts and scrap. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of ex- ports of commodities (see footnote 5 ), but they require prior permission f rom the Netherlands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery where such advance payments are not traditional in the trade concerned; such permission is not normally granted. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory, but any surrender that is made must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds through an authorized bank is obligatory. A license may be obtained to hold a fore ign currency account with a bank abroad, to which ac- count export proceeds may be credited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f r om inv is ib les must be collected th rough an au thor ized b ank but need not be su r rende red and may instead be credited to fo re ign currency accounts. A license may be obtained upon application to hold a fore ign cu r rency account with a bank abroad, to which account proceeds f rom invisibles may be credited. For incoming exchange exceeding f. 500 de- rived f rom current invisibles, the recipient must indicate to an authorized bank the na tu re of the unde r ly ing transaction, as well as the amount and currency received. Nonresidents may bring into the Ne the r lands un- l im i ted amoun ts in Ne the r lands bankno tes, fo re ign bank- notes, and negotiable ins trumen ts. These may be sold on ly to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of fore ign banknotes, to an authorized depository, or they may be used to pay tour- ist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Ne ther lands any unu t i l ized portion of the banknotes and coins that they took with them on the ir ou tward j o u r n e y; there is no l im i ta t ion on the amount in Ne ther lands or fore ign bankno tes and coins that they may b r ing in. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the shift- ing of foreign-owned capital within the Netherlands from one asset to another are subject to control, but general licenses have been granted for many types of capital transaction. Borrowing and lending abroad by bank and nonbank residents (with the exception of specified bank ing operations and of the granting of credit in respect of imports or exports of commodities) are restricted for reasons of capital market policy and, as far as borrowing is concerned, either to control the contracting of foreign debt by local authorities or for reasons of monetary and reserve policy. Apart from 346 guilder issues on the Netherlands capital market (see be low), most lending to nonresidents is liberally per- mitted. Borrowing abroad by nonbank residents is at present restricted in principle to amounts used for investments abroad (which is considered to include the purchase of ships and a ircraft abroad). Borrowing from nonresident banks by private industry and other non- bank residents is not normally permitted, and loans from other nonresident sources (except suppliers' credits with a maturity customary in the trade con- cerned) are subject to individual approval; licenses for borrowing abroad f rom nonbank nonresidents are granted on application, provided that the funds are used for direct investment abroad or for lending to nonresidents, but the Netherlands Bank in principle does not permit nonbank residents to take up financial credits abroad. There is a general license for loans up to f. 100,000 taken up by residents from nonresidents, provided that a resident in any calendar year does not borrow more than f. 100,000 from the same non- resident. A similar license has been issued for lending to nonresidents. Furthermore, a general license permits authorized banks to grant loans for up to 12 months to nonbank nonresidents and for any period to non- resident banks; authorized banks are on application granted licenses to lend to nonbank nonresidents for periods in excess of 12 months. Special regulations exist for borrowing and lending between head offices (in the Netherlands or abroad) of multinational com- panies and their branches and subsidiaries; at present, the Netherlands Bank does not permit financial loans to be taken up abroad w i th in a multinational company, except by resident subsidiaries located in regions where industrialization is being promoted by means of pre- miums. Nonbank residents are not normally permitted to purchase foreign treasury bills or other foreign short- term instruments. Nonresidents' purchases of Nether- lands treasury paper and guilder bank acceptances are prohibited. Capital transactions, whether freely per- mitted or not, must be notified to the Balance of Pay- ments Department of the Netherlands Bank; this is true also of all import credit in excess of one year and of advance payments in excess of f. 250,000 to be received for exports. Capital issues in the Netherlands on behalf of non- residents are restricted. During the last ten years, inter- national financial institutions and the authorities of the nonmetropolitan areas of the Kingdom of the Nether- lands have been the only nonresidents allowed to make bond issues denominated in guilders. Such issues are individually licensed by the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the prospects for the domestic capital market and the balance of payments. The Netherlands Bank, subject to certain conditions, allows nonresidents access to the debt certificate sector of the domestic capital market ( the market for onderhandse licensed to lead syndicates for the issue of med ium- term Euro-guilder notes, wh ich, if issued by nonresi- dents, may be acquired by nonresidents only and the proceeds of which must not be spent in the Nether- lands.7 Unless special permission to the con trary is obtained from the Ne the r lands B ank, authorized banks' foreign liabilities must not exceed the ir fore ign claims, i.e., they are not allowed to m a in t a in a negative net ex- ternal position. In observing th is regu la t ion, each bank has a leeway of f. 5 m i l l ion; the calculation of the net foreign position is based on the fore ign position in all currencies, in c lud ing guilders, and on the sum of short-term and long-term assets and liabilities. Sub- ject to this limitation, banks may f ree ly accept demand deposits from nonresidents, in domestic or foreign cur- rency, as well as time deposits in foreign currency. However, subject to m inor exemptions for physical persons, banks are prohibited f rom pay ing interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits and f rom accepting gu i lder t ime deposits from nonresidents.8 New capital inves tmen ts in the Netherlands by non- residents are in general permitted. Inward direct invest- ment is freely permitted and local borrowing by non- resident-owned or nonresident-controlled companies for use in the Netherlands also is freely permitted. The transfer abroad of the proceeds f rom the sale or liqui- dation of nonresident investments in indus tr ial enter- prises and other businesses established in the Nether- lands is freely permitted. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment. Direct investment abroad by residents is authorized on application. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in officially listed guilder bonds ( inc lud ing mortgage bonds and "interest savings letters" but excluding guilder notes) are subject to special regulations. Trading in such bonds is unrestricted but nonresidents' purchases from residents must be financed with O-guilders (see Nonresident Accounts, above); nonresidents selling such bonds to residents may receive payment by credit either to an O-Guilder Account or to a Convertible Guilder Account. Accrued interest and brokerage on bonds purchased and sold must be settled in the same manner as the principal sum, as must stamp duty on transactions in the secondary market. Balances in O-Guilder Accounts are freely negotiable between non- 7 With effect f rom January 3, 1973, residents were allowed to sub- scribe to new issues by residents of Euro-guilder notes. Previously, they could only acquire such notes in the secondary ma rke t, a f ter placing. 8 On March 1, 1973 the Ne ther lands Bank repeated its request to banks for strict compliance with the "5-million-guilder regulation." Henceforth, banks incurring excess net foreign liabilities had to purchase U. S. dollars f rom the Ne ther lands Bank at f. 2.8554 = US$1 and deposit these with the Bank; such purchases were reversible when banks were back under their ceilings. On March 27, 1973, the Nether- lands Bank announced it had reached agreement w i th the au thor ized banks on the introduction of an ad hoc, noninterest-bearing reserve requirement against increases af ter March 2, 1973 in banks' net foreign guilder liabilities. The reserve requirement was initially set at 50 per cent, applicable to the week ending April 4. NETHERLANDS residents. Authorized banks and stockbrokers may freely deal in O-guilders among themselves and with nonresidents. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in foreign securities and domestic securities other than listed gu i lder bonds take place at official market rates and, with m inor exceptions, are unrestricted; the regu- lations concerning securities are not applicable to treasury bills. Residents may free ly purchase officially listed securities abroad, w i th the exception of guilder- denom ina ted Euro-bonds and medium-term Euro- gu i lder notes issued by nonresidents; foreign bonds denominated in guilders or otherwise linked to the pa r i ty of the guilder may be purchased free ly only when listed on the Ams te rdam stock exchange. The foreign currency proceeds f rom securities sold abroad by residents must be deposited with an authorized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or retained. The proceeds of securities sold in the Ne the r lands by nonresidents (other th an O-guilder proceeds) are transferable in any currency, irrespective of the seller's coun try of domicile or residence. Non- residents may have the ir securities, Netherlands or fore ign, exported to them ( b ut see footnote 3 ). Domes- tic and foreign securities held abroad by a resident are subject to a deposit requirement, but the Nether- lands B a nk grants exemptions on application; securi- ties held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Residents may f ree ly purchase real estate abroad. G i f ts and donations to nonresidents are free.9 Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domes- tic currency. They acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years, and may upon depar ture have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries may be made freely in respect of inheritances from estates being distributed in the Netherlands. Gold The Ne the r lands Bank engages in gold transactions on ly w i th mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and in terna t ional f inan- cial in s t i tu t ion s. Ne i ther the Bank nor any government agency impor ts or m a rk e ts gold for indus tr ial use. Au tho r ized banks and other residents may free ly pur- chase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold a l loy s) in the Ne the r lands or abroad; gold held abroad, however, must be kept on deposit with the foreign correspondent of an authorized depository. Imports and exports of gold require neither exchange licenses nor import and export licenses. There is a free gold ma rket in Ams te rdam. Domestic sales of gold coins, if legal tender in the country of issue, are free of value-added tax; those that are not legal tender are 9 Char i tab le g i f ts and donations for religious purposes are included in the Ne ther lands definition of cu r rent paymen ts. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS subject to value-added tax at 4 per cent. The value- added tax on medallions and commemorative coins is 14 per cent;10 sales of gold bars and nuggets are exempt. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes during 1972 During the year, a considerable number of issues of Euro-guilder notes took place. Their amount in- creased from about f. 975 million in 1971 to about f. 1,275 million in 1972. The premium of the O-guilder reached a peak of 8Vi per cent on July 19, 1972. January 1. The stamp tax on foreign issues in the Netherlands of shares and guilder bonds was abolished. January 24. Payments in respect of insurance con- tracts ( l i fe insurance, damage insurance, and reinsur- ance) were included in the exchange control definition of current payments. As a result, such payments to nonresidents, whether they were current or capital pay- ments, were fu l ly liberalized and residents could with- out a license enter into agreements with nonresidents (in any currency) from which such payments could arise. For purposes of entering into insurance and reinsurance agreements, the representatives, branches, and agents of foreign insurance companies were put on an equal footing with domestic insurers; the "insur- ance accounts" in the names of foreign insurance com- panies had to be closed prior to March 1, 1972. February 9. The Netherlands Bank offered swap facilities to authorized banks under which it bought U. S. dollars spot against sales for delivery in one or three months. This policy was discontinued after a few days. March 7. The system of ceilings on domestic bank credit, which had been applied since Janua ry 1969, was suspended. It was abolished on Ju ly 20. March 9. General license No. PL 419, which in its amended form still allowed nonresidents to place guil- ders on time deposit with domestic banks, was revoked. (The license had been amended on June 1, 1971 to revoke the general permission allowing the sale to non- residents of domestic treasury paper and guilder bank acceptances against payment to the debit of Convertible Guilder Accounts.) Expiring time deposits could not be renewed ( inc lud ing "savings accounts," "savings deposits," and "reinvestment accounts," unless held by physical persons; these could continue to receive interest on balances up to f. 25,000 by virtue of a general license issued on March 14). March 9. The payment of interest on guilder demand deposits held by nonresidents was prohibited. (A par- tial prohibition had been in effect since May 21, 1971.) Balances held by physical persons were by a general license of March 14 exempted up to f. 25,000 each 10 Increased to 16 per cent w i th effect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1973. 348 (f. 10,000 each for "interest giro accounts" and "salary accounts"). April 17. The Netherlands Bank announced that until further notice, and subject to certain unspecified quantitative limits, it was prepared to license the granting to nonresidents of guilder loans when made available outside the normal stock exchange or issue channels (loans in the form of debt certificates or onderhandse leningen). Final maturities should be at least ten years and amortization should take place in at least five annual installments. The proceeds, unlike those of Euro-guilder notes, could in part be spent in the Netherlands. No limitations were imposed with respect to the purposes for which such loans could be granted, but no licenses were issued for loans to foreign local authorities. Previously, nonresidents had not been allowed access to the market for onderhandse leningen. April 24. Narrower margins (up to 2V4 per cent either side of cross-parities) were observed for the cur- rencies of member countries of the EEC. The Nether- lands Bank established corresponding official buying and selling rates, including buy ing and selling rates for the Belgian f ranc of f. 7.079 and f. 7.405 per 100 Belgian francs. From May 2 un t il June 22 this regime was also applied to sterling. Narrower margins for the Danish krone and the Norwegian krone came into force on May 2 and May 23, respectively. April 26. It was announced that the Benelux govern- ments had agreed to maintain the mutual margins w i th in 11/2 per cent either side of the cross-parities, as prior to April 24. The Netherlands Bank established new official buying and Celling rates of f. 7.1320 and f. 7.3490 per 100 Belgian francs. May. In order to prevent a fu r ther strengthening of the O-guilder, the Netherlands Bank began interven- ing in the marke t. Its intervention ceased on June 30. May 18. The Netherlands Bank announced that it had reached agreement with the commercial banks on an increase in the size of the 1967 "export financing arrangement" (designed to facilitate export credits with maturities of five years and over) from f. 250 million to f. 400 million. On October 17, a further increase to f. 600 million was agreed. May 29. Agreement was reached on the unification of excise duties w i th in Benelux, to take effect on Janu- ary 1, 1973. June 23. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on June 28. June 28. The official buying and selling rates for sterling and the Danish krone were revoked. Those for the Danish krone were reinstated on October 10. July 5. A b i ll was introduced to replace the Foreign Exchange Decree, 1945 and the Law Concerning Inter- national Settlements, 1934, with a positive system of exchange control legislation. The proposed Law on Financial Transactions with Foreign Countries would, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution however, contain powers enabling the Government to take measures to protect the domestic capital market, to support domestic financial and monetary policy, and to protect the monetary reserves. The bill was not enacted dur ing 1972. July 8. Borrowing by resident subsidiaries and branches from nonresident head offices, which previ- ously was licensed either for three years fixed or, subject to equal annual repayments, for five years, was restricted to borrowing for at least five years fixed and with a head office participation of at least 50 per cent. July 17. Nonbank residents required a license to take up credits related to imports of goods when their maturity was in excess of traditional terms in the trade concerned. The existing notification requirement was maintained for contracts not requiring a license but in which the credit term exceeded one year. July 17. Nonbank residents required a license to accept payments in advance of delivery in respect of exports of goods when such advance payments were not traditional in the trade concerned. The existing notification requirement was maintained for contracts not requiring a license but in which the credit term exceeded one year. In addition, traditional advance payments now had to be notified to the Netherlands Bank, irrespective of the credit term, when their com- bined amount exceeded f. 250,000. July 17. The Netherlands Bank ceased in principle to issue licenses allowing nonbank residents to take up financial credits abroad, including long-term loans extended within a multinational corporation. Hence- forth, borrowing from nonresident head offices nor- mally was permitted only to resident subsidiaries located in regions where industrialization is being promoted by means of premiums. Lending abroad within a multina- tional enterprise continued to be licensed for any period. NETHERLANDS July 31. A final settlement concerning securities was reached between the Netherlands Bank and Bank Indo- nesia, each acting for their respective governments. Transactions in securities between Indonesia and the Netherlands were normalized. (The special regulations concerning certain balances and securities belong- ing to residents of Indonesia —involving W-accounts, W-deposits, and certain foreign currency accounts— were revoked with effect from January 11, 1973.) September 13. The Netherlands Bank held a tender sale of U.S. treasury bills at a fixed rate of f. 3.20 per ILS. dollar, subject to repurchase on September 22 (the date when commercial banks again became sub- ject to a cash reserve requirement). September 22. For the first time since 1963, mini- mum reserve requirements were applied against banks' short-term guilder deposit liabilities. They were initially set at an average of 2 per cent and applied to liabilities to residents only. The ratio was to be reviewed every month. October. The scope of the OECD reservation on the issue of foreign securities in the domestic capital market was limited to "bonds denominated in guilders or otherwise linked to the parity of the guilder." November 10. A decision was announced to allow issues by nonresidents of convertible guilder debentures on the Netherlands market. November 16. With effect from November 30, the Netherlands Bank tightened the rules concerning the "5-million-guilder regulation" which prohibits each authorized bank from incurring a net external liability position in excess of f. 5 million. The rules for comput- ing the external position were adapted accordingly, and any transgression was made subject to an equiva- lent noninterest-bearing deposit with the Netherlands Bank, to be 'maintained during the computation period (a mon th ). 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.471230 g ram of fine gold per Ne ther lands Antilles Guilder.1 The gold con tent of the currency has been established at 0.457270 gram of fine gold. The cen t ral ra te is An t. f. 1.79 per US$1 and the au thor i t ies ava il themse lves of w ider ma rg ins of up to 21A per cent either side of the cen t ral ra te. The in te rven- tion currency is the U. S. do l lar. Exchange transac t ions between comme rc ial banks and the public take place at An t. f. 1.79 buy ing and Ant. f. 1.81 selling, per US$1, p lus a tax of %0 of 1 per cent on sales of exchange, mak ing the effec t ive selling rate for the U . S. dollar An t. f. 1.8245 per US$1.2 The off ic ial b u y i ng and selling ra tes for cer ta in other currencies are set da i ly on the basis of ra tes for the U. S. dollar abroad. The Bank of the Ne the r lands An t i l les ( t he central bank) deals with commercial banks at fixed rates, those for the U.S. dollar be ing An t. f. 1.79 buy ing, and Ant. f. 1.80 selling. The Bank does not norma l ly deal with the public. Commerc ial banks requ i re the approval of the central bank to invest or hold fo re ign cu r rency ba lances ;3 af ter 1968 such approval has not norma l ly been granted except inso far as the transactions relate to the banks' activities as in te rna t ional financial inter- mediaries. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Department of the central bank. Import licenses are issued by the Department of Econ- omy. The commercial banks are permitted by the cen- tral bank to provide foreign exchange for most current transactions w i thout prior approval. The central bank may grant nonresidents an exemption from the obliga- tion of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or monies concerned were acquired from non- residents and are not being held in favor of or on behalf of, or for the account of, th i rd parties who are resi- den ts; the foreign exchange may then be held or used freely un t il fu r ther notice or un t il revocation by the central bank. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Ne ther lands An t i l les gu i lde rs. Receipts may be accepted * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the Netherlands Antilles with e f fect f rom February 15 established a central rate of Ant. f. 1.79000 = US$1. The gold content of the currency was changed to 0.411543 gram of fine gold. The Netherlands Antilles continued to avail itself of wider margins. 1 In the islands of Saba, St. Eustatius, and St. Maarten, the Nether- lands Antilles guilder and the U. S. dollar circulate concurrently. 2 Foreign exchange purchased by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control purposes is exempt from the exchange tax. 3 All currencies other than the Ne ther lands Antilles gu i lder are con- sidered foreign currencies. 350 in any convertible currency except Ne ther lands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by residents through the authorized banks in foreign ex- change must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may f ree ly open nonresident accounts in any fore ign currency. Non res iden ts ( inc lud ing foreign inves tment fund s, etc., w i th nonresident s ta tus) are permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands Antilles guilders only if the authorized bank concerned considers that they have cer ta in interests in the Nether- lands An t i l les wh ich render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not w i thout central bank approval exceed An t. f. 10,000. Imports and Import Payments Imports of cer ta in items, such as narcotics and ex- plosives, are subject to license for public policy reasons. Imports into the islands of A rub a, Bonaire, and Cura- gao of nonvacuum-packed cereals (o ther than rice), cer ta in wheat meal and wheat f lour, certain fodder and fodder concentrates, and certain other commodities, inc lud ing alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, pharmaceuti- cals, cemen t, and new or used automobiles, require an import license issued by the Department of Econ- omy. Payments for perm i t ted impor ts may be made freely. Companies w i th nonresident status normally finance the ir imports w i th their own foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are not restricted. For most types of cu r rent invisibles remittances may be made freely th rough the authorized banks. Licenses are required, however, for the purchase of travel ex- change in excess of Ant. f. 200 a person for each day to be spent abroad and for certain personal rem i t tances in excess of Ant. f. 2,500 each or in excess of Ant. f. 10,000 a person a year. Such licenses are freely granted when no illegal capital t rans fer seems to be involved. For payments representing interest on loans or net income from other investments, and for amortiza- tion of loans or depreciation of direct investments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verifica- tion of the facts. Nonresidents may take w i th them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to An t. f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an author- ized bank within six months of shipment, with the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exception of export proceeds received by compan ies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles (except those of firms with nonresident s ta tu s) must be sur- rendered to an authorized b ank w i t h in eight days of receipt. Travelers may b r ing w i th them checks, travelers checks, or bankno tes in foreign currency in un l im i ted amoun ts. Each traveler may also bring in An t. f. 200 in Ne ther lands An t i l les bankno tes. Capital Foreign investment in the Ne the r lands An t i l les requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Inves tment Incentives Program, as amended, provides for du ty - f ree entry of many commodities as well as tax fac i l i t ies. New industrial companies pr imar i ly engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the central bank, which confers on the company concerned exemption f rom exchange control (except in its transactions w i th res iden ts), inc lud ing exemption from the requirement of surrendering their foreign currency receipts. Such exemption may also be granted to investment companies, pa tent holding companies, sh ipp ing companies, and insurance companies. Ou tward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance con- tracts between residents and foreign insurance compa- nies for a m in imum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount which is fixed annua l ly, de- pending on the foreign exchange position. Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad requires a license. Investment in foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in the currency of a country other than the Ne ther lands Antilles) requires a license only when exceeding Ant. f. 2,500 a transaction or Ant. f. 10,000 a person a year. Investments by residents in officially quoted foreign securities (other than shares in mu tual funds, investment in these not being per- m i t ted) are licensed freely up to amounts fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position. In consid- ering applications by such residents as pension funds and other institutional investors, the central bank takes into account the merits of each case and, in particular, the limited opportunity for domestic investment; the bank may exert moral suasion, however, to discourage excessive outflows of resident-owned capital. Author- ized banks may freely borrow foreign currency abroad from nonresidents (including residents w i th nonresident s ta tus ), or accept foreign currency deposits from non- residents, for relending to nonresidents or redeposit abroad; their borrowing f rom nonresidents for relending to residents is restricted for monetary policy reasons NETHERLANDS ANTILLES and banks requ i re central bank approval to incur a net foreign liability position. Nonresidents are not normally permitted to acquire balances in Netherlands Antilles guilders. Local borrowing in domestic currency by non- residents ( inc lud ing resident companies regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes) is re- stricted. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Ne ther lands Antilles for num isma t ic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and w i th other residents. Resi- dents other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permis- sion to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not nor- ma l ly granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and indus tr ial users. Changes during 1972 January 3. The import into Aruba, Bonaire, and Curacao of a wide range of commodities required a license except when for personal use and valued at Ant. f. 100 or less. They included many foods tuffs, Pharmaceuticals, cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, cement, and new passenger automobiles. Licenses were issued only to firms holding an operating permit. January 10. Licenses issued by the central bank ceased to be required for imports of passenger auto- mobiles valued at over US$5,000. March 17. It was announced that with effect from April 1 the tax on sales of foreign exchange and on credits of domestic currency to nonresident accounts was being changed to a uniform rate of %0 of 1 per cent; previously, the tax was expressed in cents per currency unit (e.g., An t. f. 0.015 per US$1) and hence varied slightly for d ifferent currencies. Furthermore, banks would have to specify the tax separately rather than including it in the exchange rates they quoted to the public. March 22. The central bank issued a written sum- mary of directives concerning exchange licenses, to enter into effect on April 1. No significant changes in exchange policy were involved. The directives were intended essentially as guidelines incorporating certain earlier oral directives to banks. Also, additional forms were introduced on which applications in writing had to be made for individual exchange licenses; previously the latter had often been granted by telephone and subse- quently confirmed on a form. Individual licenses only were required where the size and /or nature of the transaction could have a significant impact on the level 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES or composition of the exchange reserves. Such licenses were henceforth needed for purchases of travel ex- change in excess of Ant. f. 1,500 a person a trip and for personal remittances in excess of Ant. f. 2,500 each or in excess of Ant. f. 10,000 a person a year (cov- ering living expenses, support payments, study abroad, wages and salaries, and emigrants' f u n d s ). Residents and nonresidents could freely take out or bring in domestic banknotes up to Ant. f. 200 a person a trip. Payments and transfers in respect of current interna- tional transactions remained unrestricted. Capital trans- actions that required an individual license when exceed- ing Ant. f. 2,500 per transaction or Ant. f. 10,000 a per- son a year included gifts, disbursements of inheritances, and purchases and sales of foreign securities. April 14. Residents of the islands of Saba, St. Eusta- tius, and St. Maarten could freely open accounts in U. S. dollars with local banks. Such accounts could not be used, however, for settlements with persons or firms established in Aruba, Bonaire, or Curasao. April 14. Banks established in St. Maarten could freely credit domestic currency to accounts in the names of residents of the French part of the island, but no such account could show a total balance in excess of Ant. f. 10,000 unless the approval of the central bank was obtained. May 2. Additional w r i t ten directives concerning ex- change licenses were issued. These provided that all bank credit in domestic currency to nonresidents (in- cluding residents treated as nonresidents for exchange control purposes) henceforth required the prior ap- proval of the central bank. Banks no longer required prior approval to open domestic currency accounts for nonresidents with initial balances of Ant. f. 10,000 or less, provided that they were confident the nonresident concerned had a legitimate interest in the Netherlands Antilles. Such accounts could be used for demand de- posits, savings deposits, or time deposits. Payments by residents to the credit of such accounts were subject to the exchange tax. The tax was also levied on balances on resident accounts when transferred to nonresident guilder accounts in the name of the same holder. May 2. The basic exchange allowance for foreign travel was changed from Ant. f. 1,500 a person a trip to Ant. f. 200 a person a day. June 15. Licenses for imports into Aruba, Bonaire, or Curasao of certain commodities henceforth were not normally issued. These goods were nonvacuum-packed cereals (other than rice) and certain wheat meal and wheat flour. August 24. Residents of the islands of Saba, St. Eustatius, and St. Maar ten could freely borrow in U. S. dollars from local banks, provided that such credit was not passed on to persons or firms established in Aruba, Bonaire, or Curasao. September 1. All debits and credits to nonresident- held domestic currency accounts showing a balance of Ant. f. 10,000 or more required a prior exchange license. Local bank credit in domestic currency to non- residents (including residents treated as nonresidents for exchange control purposes), which already was sub- ject to individual license, henceforth was restricted. September 30. The central bank issued certain clari- fications concerning the above-mentioned measure of September 1. For purposes of that directive, invest- ment and finance companies established in the Nether- lands Antilles but effecting all operations abroad were considered nonresidents. However, administration and trust offices established and effectively operating in the Netherlands Antilles and industrial and other firms operating there were considered residents even if they had been declared nonresidents for exchange control purposes. November 20. The central bank concluded an agree- ment with the commercial banks concerning their foreign transactions, exchange risks, and certain other matters. Rules were agreed governing the maximum size of banks' foreign currency claims on nonresidents and the max imum size of banks' foreign currency work- ing balances. The central bank would make available exchange risk cover on banks' foreign currency posi- tions, either through foreign currency accounts to be opened with the central bank or by engaging in for- ward transactions, but only insofar as the exchange risk arose from transactions with residents. 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand Dollar, corresponding to $NZ 0.892857 = SDR 1 or $NZ 1 = US$1.21600. The official buy- ing and selling limits for the U. S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, are US$1.2017 and US$1.1887 per $NZ 1; on December 31, 1972 these were also the official buying and selling rates. New Zealand avails itself of wider margins. Except for the Australian dollar, the Fiji dollar, and the Western Samoa tala, the rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commercial) banks, including the pound sterling, are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The banks' buy ing and selling rates for sterling on December 31, 1972 were $NZ 1.9624 and $NZ 1.9749 per <£!. The trading banks are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts in U. S. and Canadian dollars and sterling for up to 12 months to cover trade transactions. Forward transactions in sterling and Canadian dollars are at rates of exchange based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. Forward exchange contracts written in U. S. dollars are concluded at the relative spot rates, adjusted with a loading of US$0.0018 a month on contracts covering exports. Forward contracts covering imports are concluded at spot rates. The Reserve Bank provides a facility whereby trading banks may obtain day-to-day cover for their net positions in these cur- rencies, spot and forward. Contracts in other currencies may be covered through the London or New York foreign exchange markets, against sterling or U. S. dollars. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is te red by the Reserve Bank of New Zea land und er powers delegated to its Governor by the M in is ter of Finance. The Reserve B a nk in tu rn has given d i sc re t iona ry au tho r i ty to the t r ad ing banks in New Zea land to approve app l ica t ions for cer ta in rem i t tances of f u n ds overseas. The Bank also is in charge of the con t ro ls over foreign d i rect inves tment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Depa r tment and the Depar tment of Trade and Indu s t ry, respectively. Prescription of Currency New Zealand has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947, but under current U. K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may generally be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from the New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand or Rhodesia generally also is an acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("con- trolled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an annual Import Licensing Schedule, wh ich groups imports into d i f fe rent categories to wh ich various import procedures are applied. On a value basis, about 75 per cent of all private imports are exempt f rom licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for July 1, 1972- June 30, 1973, are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) includes petroleum, lub r ica t ing oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, ju te, many textiles, and pr in ted books wh ich may be imported without license. In addition, certain imports of Aus tra l ian origin are exempt from l icens ing, irrespective of the licensing category to which they belong.2 A "Basic" category comprises items for wh ich licenses are granted by refer- ence to qu a l i fy ing licenses issued or ac tual imports in a previous licensing per iod. Category "C" licenses are gran ted on an ind iv idu al basis on such criteria as essen- t ia l i ty, ava i lab i l i ty, and price; for some "C" items, how- ever, an in i t ial allocation based on a previous period is prov ided, wh i le app l ica t ions for f u r t h er licenses are con- sidered ind iv idu a l ly. Category "D" inc ludes items of a type also produced in New Zea land, for which licenses are issued only in exceptional circumstances. In addi- t ion, licenses for small or "token" amoun ts are issued (to the extent of 125 per cent of 1971/72 licenses for the same goods on a va lue basis, and at 110 per cent where they are issued for a specific quan t i ty of goods) for "D" items and for certain approved classes of goods, imports of wh ich are genera l ly not perm i t ted under the Schedule. "Adm in is tra t ive basic licenses" are issued au toma t ica l ly to ensure con t inu i ty of impo r ta t ion for ce r ta in regu la r ly requ i red goods that correspond to on ly pa rt of an item code. All licenses issued may be * Fo l low ing the announ c em ent on F eb ru a ry 12, 1973 th at the U. S. dollar was be ing deva lued, New Zea land on Feb rua ry 14, 1973 dec ided to m a in t a in the par va lue of its cu r rency in terms of gold. The e f fec t ive p a r i ty re la t ion sh ip for the U. S. dollar became $NZ 1 = US$1.35104, a nd t h at f or t he A u s t r a l i an d o l l ar r em a in ed u n c h a n g e d. 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zea land currency. - Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree- ment th at came in to force on J a n u a ry 1, 1966. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND used for imports from any source at the applicant's d iscre t ion. Impo r ts f r om Rhodes ia and No r th V ie t -Nam, however, are p roh ib i ted. A degree of flexibility in the app l ica t ion of the L icens ing Schedule is achieved th rough the use of Group Schemes ( f or Indus t ry and Inter- changeab i l i ty G roup s) that enable impo r te rs to t rans fer i n d i v i d u al en t i t lemen ts to a composite l icense, ins tead of h o l d i ng licenses for separa te i tems, and to impo r t, up to the to tal am o u n t, any item or comb ina t ion of i tems in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Import Licensing Schedule may be issued in special circumstances, viz., for advertising material supplied free of charge; gifts, passengers' baggage, replacement of fau l ty or damaged goods; trade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. The t rad ing banks have authority to make fore ign exchange in an app rop r ia te cu r rency ava i lab le for pay- men ts in respect of all licensed impo r ts and all imports that do not requ ire a license. Payments for Invisibles The commerc ial banks are pe rm i t ted to sell exchange for overseas paymen ts up to established l im i ts for many categories of inv is ib les, sub ject in app rop r ia te cases to the submission of j u s t i f y i ng documen ts. Payments beyond the established l im i t s, and for ca tegor ies not included in the commercial banks' perm i t ted list, requ i re the specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, whe re appropriate, by j u s t i f y i ng documents. Banks are authorized to sell fore ign exchange for genu ine fore ign travel purposes w i thout prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 600 a person a month or part thereof, with a max imum of $NZ 1,800 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 600 a mon th or for a total of more than $NZ 1,800 in any 12-month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, wh ich meets all reasonable requests for genuine travel purposes. In addi- tion to the above allocations, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign currencies, without limit as to amount, to New Zealand travelers against these persons' privately held Sterling Area or other foreign funds. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is normally approved, subject to formal authentication; for dividends and interest, the approval authority has been delegated to the author- ized banks. Most contractual obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business also are normally approved, but each remittance requires approval and new com- mitments such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors or overseas borrowing require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of maintenance 354 a n d / or g i f ts are made on a year ly basis w i thout discrimi- na t ion. Rem i t tances by recognized New Zealand reli- gious and cha r i tab le o rgan iza t ions or ind iv idua ls operat- ing as members of such an organ iza t ion are not subject to any l im i t a t i o n. A l loca t ions to ind iv idu a ls for religious and ch a r i t ab le rem i t tances, other th an of the type speci- fied above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 100 a rem i t to r, and app l ica t ions for larger amoun ts are considered on th e ir merits. Any resident may freely make personal rem i t tances up to $NZ 20 a year to any des t ina t ion overseas except Rhodesia. Travelers may take w i th them up to $NZ 50 in New Zea land cu r rency, regard less of des t ina t ion. Banknotes taken out may not be in denom ina t ions larger than $NZ 5. Up to $NZ 4 of the pe rm i t ted to tal may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds With m i n or exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and carry the condition that the net export proceeds must be surrendered to a trad ing bank in accordance w i th the prescription of currency regulations. General export licenses valid un t il December 31, 1973 are issued to regular exporters. Payments for exports must be re- ceived within six months from the date of shipment. Exports to Rhodesia and No r th Viet-Nam are prohibited. Certain items classed as strategic goods may only be exported when particular requirements have been met and subsequent to the issue of a permit to export. Exports of beef and veal to the United States and cheddar-type cheese to the United Kingdom are subject to restraint. Under an export bonus scheme, manu fac tu re rs sub- m i t t ing evidence of exportation may receive a replace- ment import license of the same value as the imported raw material or componen ts still subject to import con- trol that are incorporated in the exported goods, as well as, subject to cer ta in conditions being met, an add i t ional bonus license; goods impor ted against the bonus license may be used for the m a n u f a c t u re of goods for the home market or for export. The bonus license must not exceed the difference between the f»o.b. value of the goods exported and the c.i.f. value of imported mate- rials and /or components used in m anu f a c tu re by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles When remunera t ion for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand res iden ts ( in c lud ing corporate bodies ord inar i ly resident in New Zea land) is paid in the form of foreign assets,3 their foreign currency proceeds must 3 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or provi- sion of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be sold to the New Zealand bank ing system; interest and dividends earned overseas f rom portfolio invest- ment are excluded f rom this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a fo rm other than foreign cur- rency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zea land residents of fore ign income f r om o ther inv i s ib l es such as in te rest and dividends is permitted, but such income is not eligible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency, except that the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may b r ing in to the coun t ry un l im i t ed amoun ts of fore ign and domes t ic bankno tes and coins, prov ided t h at any New Zealand bankno tes brought in are in denom ina t ions not exceeding $NZ 5. Capital With the exception of ce r ta in capital issues outside New Zealand and ce r ta in overseas borrowings by cor- porate bodies, there is no res tr ic t ion on capital receipts. However, to be eligible for repa t r ia t ion, capital must have been in i t ia l ly t ran s fe r red to New Zealand through normal bank ing channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or mach inery. Capital so t r an s f e r r ed, inc lud ing capital ga ins and capitalized prof i ts, may be repatriated, a f ter the fo rmal approval of the Reserve Bank has been ob ta ined. Overseas companies seeking to commence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Reserve Bank.4 Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand requ i re the approval of the Reserve Bank; overseas borrow ing by such companies also requires pr ior approva l. In order to encourage the inflow of p r iva te fore ign capital, fo rwa rd exchange cover is provided by the Reserve Bank for New Zealand companies borrow ing abroad and for foreign-owned companies that have received consent under the Capital Issues Regulations to borrow in New Zealand. Foreign borrowings under this scheme must be for a specific project. Forward exchange cover is for the amount of the capital sum only and is norma l ly limited to not less than $NZ 50,000 and not more than $NZ 1 million for each project. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of thereto or interest therein (whether actual or contingent); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transaction of any k ind (whe ther or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforce- able by legal proceedings). 4 On January 15, 1973, the Minister of Finance in a policy statement set out the general approach of the Government to investment in New Zealand by nonresidents, as well as the detailed criteria which would be applied to each proposal on a case-by-case basis. No approval would be granted where the interest of the applicant was merely to gain profits from property speculation or other fo rms of speculation, and where a proposal involved overseas ownership of land, decisions would be consistent with the Government's general land ownership policies. NEW ZEALAND overseas compan ies must ob ta in the consent of the Reserve B ank if th ey wish to borrow in New Zealand, whe ther for long - te rm or short-term f in an c e; the ratio between New Zea land and overseas bo r row ing that is p e rm i t t ed is g en e r a l ly the same as th at between New Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Trading banks do, however, have discretion to make overdraf ts of up to $NZ 20,000 ava i lab le to such companies. Non res ident persons or compan ies des i r ing to make a direct invest- ment in a New Zea land company th rough the purchase or exchange of shares are requ i red to register any o f fer made for such sha res whenever the investment would resu lt in the control by the o f fe ror of 25 per cent or more of the New Zea land company's capital. W i th in two weeks of reg is t ra t ion the M in is ter of Finance must no t i fy the o f fe ror as to whe ther or not the o f fer is to be considered f u r t h e r. If f u r t h er consideration is to be given, the M in i s ter of F inance must give a final decision w i th in six weeks of the date of registration. Em ig ran ts to any des t ina t ion other than Rhodesia may upon des igna t ion as nonresidents t r an s f er the whole of the ir assets to their new coun t ry of residence. Appli- cations for the rem i t tance abroad of legacies f rom the estate of a New Zea land resident are no rma l ly approved in full. The authorities do not normally make exchange available to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas securities for portfolio investment. New Zea- land Government bonds purchased overseas by New Zealand residents af ter September 5, 1969 may not be transferred f rom the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning over- seas securities is free to sell them to overseas residents for any foreign currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas securities, surrendered, or retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any over- seas currency. Overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those of any overseas country which were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents evidencing title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with an approved depository (i.e., the Reserve Bank of New Zealand). These securi- ties may also be sold for any overseas currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or rein- vested in other overseas securities within three months and the resulting scrip deposited. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for numismatic purposes. Since the revocation in 1954 of the Gold Acquisition Notice 1948, it is no 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND longer necessary to offer gold to the Reserve Bank, and sales within New Zealand do not require Reserve Bank approval. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Depart- ment; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrict! vely. Changes during 1972 January 1. Generalized tariff preferences for specified goods originating in developing countries became effec- tive. February 26. The "no-remittance" import license scheme was abolished. Under this scheme, introduced in 1951, holders of certain approved overseas funds or of overseas securities held prior to June 16, 1966 had been permitted to use such funds or securities for payment in respect of imports. The main item imported under the scheme had been passenger automobiles. March 29. The Reserve Bank announced a liberaliza- tion of the payments procedures for licensed imports. "Bank copies" supplied by the customs of import licenses were dispensed with, and the importer needed only to present to his bank documents evidencing the cost and the arrival of the goods. Trading banks no longer were required to maintain a record of their customers' import license entitlements, new or old. March 30. A number of import items from among those proposed for exemption in October 1971 were exempted from import licensing. April 6. The 1972/73 Import Licensing Schedule was announced, to become effective on July 1. Alloca- tions (basic licenses) would generally be at 110 per cent of the 1971/72 level. For woven woolen piece goods and woven synthetic piece goods allocations would be 50 per cent and 85 per cent, respectively, of the 1971/72 level. Token licenses would be at 125 per cent of the 1971/72 level for those issued on a value basis and 110 per cent for those issued on quantity. Licensed imports were estimated to amount to $NZ 535 million out of a total of $NZ 1,300 million in imports of goods and services provided for in the new schedule. May 9. The 1972/73 car import licensing policy was announced. Basic licenses for completely knocked-down cars would be issued to national franchise holders for two thirds of the value of replacement licenses granted to them in the period July 1, 1971 to March 31, 1972. In addition, companies would continue to be able to obtain normal quarterly replacement licenses as they qualified for them. Licenses for imports of built-up cars would be issued to traditional license holders at 110 per cent of 1971/72 licenses. June 22. It was announced that where an industry was to be exempted f rom import licensing, there would 356 be provision in appropriate cases for a phase-out period which, in general, would be for up to three years. To encourage the development of new products where the existing duty was low or nil, the Government had decided to adopt the method of providing anticipatory duties to be established in anticipation of domestic production but not until after manufac tur ing had com- menced. The tax incentive for increased manufactured exports was with effect from April 1, 1972 increased from 15 per cent to 20 per cent. June 23. New Zealand ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 23. Operations in sterling were suspended. June 28. Operations in sterling were resumed. The par value in terms of gold was maintained and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at $NZ 1 = US$1.21600. Rates for other currencies, including sterling, continued to be based on London closing rates. July 28. The termination and access provision of the trade agreements w i th the United Kingdom were modified. August 9. The special scheme allowing transactions between New Zealand residents in overseas Sterling Area securities was extended to the acquisition of listed non-Sterling Area securities. August 13. Following the recent changes in U. K. exchange controls, various exchange control require- men ts which had been retained only as a measure of cooperation with Sterling Area countries were abolished. In general, the distinction between Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies no longer applied. All currencies other than New Zealand currency were designated foreign currencies. Exporters could now receive payment for their goods in any foreign cur- rency and importers and others making overseas pay- ments could also do so in any foreign currency, irrespective of the country of residence of the over- seas party. Payments from and to the New Zealand currency accounts of overseas banks remained an acceptable form of payment. August 14. The Government approved a five-phase timetable for a review on an industry-by-industry basis of goods subject to import licensing and not already referred to the Tariff and Development Board. August 21. A list of import items proposed for exemption was published. September 4. The New Zealand Meat Board lifted its ban on mutton sales to the United States. September 5. It was announced that the tariff prefer- ences accorded to goods of U. K. origin would be phased out between Ju ly 1, 1974 and June 30, 1977. September 29. The Reserve Bank granted a general consent, in terms of the Exchange Control Regulations, 1965, enabling public companies quoted on the official list of the Stock Exchange Association of New Zealand ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND to send from New Zealand dividend and interest checks, payable to persons permanently resident outside New Zealand, including companies incorporated outside New Zealand, without reference to the Bank. Checks had to be expressed in New Zealand currency and the payee must be the person registered as the holder of the share, bond, or note concerned. It had always been exchange control policy to approve the remittance of dividends and interest to overseas beneficiaries, and this general consent would enable the latter to effect savings in administration. October 4. New Zealand and the EEC agreed to establish closer contacts. December 29. It was announced that the United Kingdom had given one month's notice of termination of its trade agreements with New Zealand. The agree- ments concerned were the 1959 and 1966 trade agree- ments and the remaining provisions of the Ottawa Agreement of 1932 between the two countries. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.116930 gram of fine gold per N ica raguan Cordoba, corresponding to C$7.6000 = SDR 1 or C$7.00 - US$1. The Cen t ral Bank of Nica- ragua deals w i th the commercial banks in U. S. dollars, the in te rven t ion currency, at C$7.00 per US$1, buying and selling, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per US$1. All exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at the offi- cial rates of C$7.00 buy ing, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. The sale of fore ign exchange by commercial banks to the public is subject to a stamp tax of ¥2 of 1 per cent, which results in an effec t ive selling rate of C$7.0875 per US$1. No tax or commission is charged on the buy ing rate. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank, which by law has the sole au thor i ty to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been dele- gated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of mone- tary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and determining any advance deposits required; no advance deposit require- ments are in force at present. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily converti- ble into U. S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nica- raguan cordobas through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the clearinghouse. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Guatemala for compensation through the clearinghouse in excess of the following amounts a month: 66,250 Costa Rican colones, 125,000 Guatemalan quetzales, and 200,000 Salvadoran colones. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Nicaragua maintained the exchange rate of C$7.00 per U. S. dollar. 358 Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Imports f rom all countries, except the other Central American countries, must be consigned to persons or firms ho ld ing a commercial license f rom the Ministry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declarations. All imports on credit and all prepayments for imports require approval by the Central Bank, which is normally granted only for capital goods and industrial materials; when payment is not being made on sight of documents, an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Cen- tral Bank. Imports of certain types of footwear and some pharmaceutical and ve te r ina ry supplies are prohibited, except when produced in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased f rom banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight d ra f t s. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports from Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open an import letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such permis- sion is at present limited mainly to industrial and agri- cultural machinery and, for certain industries, raw materials. Imports are not released f rom customs unless evidence is submitted either that payment has been made through a bank (constancia de pago) or that acceptance has been made through a bank (constancia de aceptacion). In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this requirement does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. Most imports originating outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory consumption tax irrespective of their origin. Furthermore, most com- 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds of bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by- products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution modities are subject to a 5 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domestically produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign cur- rency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declaration specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and fore ign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be pur- chased from a bank, with the exception noted in foot- note 1). For certain agr icu l tural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy can fix m in imum export prices or temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic short- ages.- Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made 2 With effect from January 6, 1973 an ad valorem levy of 10 per cent was imposed on the principal exports. NICARAGUA freely under the general provisions of the Exchange Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Invest- ments of February 26, 1955 (effective March 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the fol- lowing privileges: repatriation of the registered capital; transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Commercial banks and private investment companies require the prior approval of the Central Bank for all borrowing abroad. Gold Residents may free ly and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicaragua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold at free market prices to buyers abroad. The Central Bank does not purchase gold abroad for resale to domestic industrial and other users. Nonmone tary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but must be registered with the Central Bank and require prior government authorization. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967. Changes during 1972 May 8. The par value was changed f rom 0.126953 gram of fine gold to 0.116930 gram of fine gold. The par i ty relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at C$7.00 = US$1. The new par value cor- responded to the previous central rate of C$7.00 = US$1. September L All imports f rom Costa Rica were sus- pended. The suspension was l if ted on October 18. September 6. A f ree trade agreement was signed with Honduras. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Exchange System * No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other current transactions, as well as all current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. All other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the BCEAO, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. The principal current payments and receipts chan- neled through the financial franc market are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and work- ers' remittances. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 - US$1. With the exception of those relating to gold, Niger's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Niger itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. The rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was also maintained on March 19, 1973, when new exchange rate arrangements between the French franc and certain other currencies came into effec t. 1X he CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 360 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Division in the Ministry of Finance and Sahara and Nomad Affairs which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger, and inward and outward investment. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Eco- nomic Affairs in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry, subject to the visa of the External Finance Division, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Sahara and Nomad Affa irs. Import certificates for liberalized com- modities are made out by the importer himself and, when imports are payable prior to importation, are first approved by the External Finance Division. Prescription of Currency Niger is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in foreign currencies or in French francs through Foreign or Financial Accounts in Francs. Certain set- tlements with Nigeria, however, are made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Financial Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by authorized banks' foreign corre- spondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Portugal or its overseas provinces, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. The import from any source of rice, paddy, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution hulled rice, wheat flour, and certain footwear and plas- tic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common Orga- nization of A f r ican, Malagasy and Mauritian States, and to imports of matches, except from countries of the West Afr ican Customs Union. Imports f rom France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than those mentioned may be made free ly w i thout a license or certificate. Imports f rom other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of v ir tua l ly all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tun is ia, and EEC countries, many goods from other fo rmer OEEC countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items f rom the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EEC coun- tries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual program that is determined each year by the Ministry of Eco- nomic Affairs, Commerce, and Indus try; the program generally reflects the requirements indicated by import- ers and is established in mu tual agreement within a joint French-Nigerien Committee. Licenses for printed or unprinted cotton fabrics and for ju te bags, however, are issued in proportion to du ly substantial imports from France of a specified quan t i ty of these goods. Goods not subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction may be imported on an import certificate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer. The Societe Na t iona le de Commerce et de Produc- tion du Niger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include whea t, wheat flour, green tea, and ce r ta in textiles. All import transactions w i th foreign coun tr ies must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c . i .f. Niger border. The import licenses or import certificates en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transac t ion is genuine and in accordance w i th the impo rt t i t le. Import certificates require the visa of the Ex te rnal Finance Division if the goods are payab le before impo r ta t ion. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted free ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Divi- sion. Paymen ts for inv is ib les related to t rade are per- m i t ted free ly when the basic t rade t ransac t ion has been approved or does not requ i re au tho r iza t ion. Transfers of income accru ing to non re s iden ts in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also perm i t ted NIGER free ly when the basic transac t ion has been approved. Residents traveling on tourist trips to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip, which may be taken up twice a yea r; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing a f ter re tu rn to Niger must be surrendered. The t ran s fer of the fu ll salary of a for- eigner wo rk ing in Niger is perm i t ted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bankno tes, French banknotes, and bankno tes issued by other Operations Account countries, and, provided it is pa rt of the ir travel allocation, up to the equiv- a lent of CFAF 75,000 in fore ign bankno tes. Resident travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO bankno tes but, when traveling to a French Fran^ Area coun try outside the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bankno tes issued by other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon en try ,2 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Directorate of Economic Affa irs. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the OPVN. Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRON IGER. With the exception of peanu ts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of wh ich requ ire a license, all other exports to France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly. Exports to all other coun- tries of domestic products and imported commodities requ ire a license and an exchange comm i tmen t. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or ano ther Operations Account coun t ry must be collected and su r rende red w i th in two mon ths of the date on which payment falls due. All export transac- t ions w i th foreign coun tr ies must be domiciled with an au thor ized bank when th e ir total va lue exceeds CFAF 100,000. 2 This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of fore ign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Financial Account in Francs or a foreign cur- rency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due f rom res iden ts of other coun tr ies in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from fore ign assets, mu st be collected and surrendered within two mon ths of the due da te or the da te of receipt. Res- ident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and coins (except gold c o i n s ). Residents must surrender w i th in eight days of en try any fo re ign cu r rency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital movements between Niger and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other coun tr ies requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but cap i tal receipts from such coun tr ies are permitted free ly. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over bo r row ing abroad, over inward and ou tward inve s tmen t, and over the issu ing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Niger; these con- trols relate to the t ran sac t ions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over fore ign securities in Niger, these control measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of f u n ds for deposit with foreign private per- sons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscrib- ing to real estate building operations abroad; these spe- cial controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 For- eign direct investments in Niger 4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 4 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. 362 partial liquidation of investments, whether direct or not, also requires prior declaration. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Nigerien inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct invest- men ts are defined as inves tmen ts implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of for- eign securities in Niger requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guaran tee f rom the Nigerien Government, and ( 2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or o f fe r ing for sale in N iger has previously been author- ized. Borrow ing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this authoriza- t ion: ( 1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, which are subject to prior dec lara t ion, as indicated above; (2) loans con trac ted by au tho r ized banks; and (3) loans o ther than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou t s t and ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The repayment of any foreign borrow- ing, whe ther au tho r ized or exempt from authorization, requires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt f rom th is requ irement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968 (Law No. 68-24/PRN), as amended by Law No. 71-2 of January 29, 1971. Existing bene- fits accorded under the previous Investment Code (Law No. 61-21 of July 12, 1961) have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides, for both new and existing enterprises, assurances with respect to indemnities in the event of nationalization, and con- cerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions will be granted to new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within speci- fied categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two different regimes, the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form in Niger. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) impor ts and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when car- ried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1972 January 5. The l im i ts imposed on August 14, 1971 on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in f rancs vis-a-vis foreign countries were removed. January 5. The measure of December 10, 1971 was revoked which had provided that, with certain excep- tions, Foreign Accounts in Francs and Financial Accounts in Francs could only be debited for payments in francs to residents, and no longer for purchases of foreign exchange. May 5. Circular No. 9 specified the procedure appli- cable to import certificates for goods payable af ter importation. June 24. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, Order No. 136 shifted a number of current transactions f rom the financial franc market to the official exchange market. The principal current pay- ments and receipts that continued to be channeled through the financial f ranc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remittances. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian Pound, corresponding to <£N 0.357143 = SDR 1 or £N 1 = US$3.04. Nigeria has availed itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U. S. dollar. The Central Bank of Nigeria twice weekly quotes rates at which it is prepared to deal in U. S. dollars and sterling with authorized dealers and the public; such dealings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for the U. S. dollar are set at % per cent either side of parity, and those for sterling are determined on the basis of sterling-dollar market rates quoted in London. The Central Bank does not normally publish the rates at which it will buy and sell other foreign currencies x but it is prepared to quote rates to authorized dealers for specific transactions, on a spot basis only. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between them- selves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a foreign cur- rency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within three months of shipment, or w i th in such longer period as may have been authorized. Un t il fu r ther notice, all export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are centralized w i th the Central Bank, which supplies the authorized banks w i th foreign exchange for approved payments. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the fo l low ing: copyrights; the payment of shipping and marine insurance dues; the * On January 1, 1973, a new currency unit, the na i ra, was intro- duced to replace the N i g e r i an pound at a ratio of 2 na i ra = 1 Nigerian pound. No appreciation or depreciation of the currency was involved. With effect from February 14, 1973 Nigeria established a central rate of 1.11973 grams of fine gold per naira, corresponding to N 0.793648 = SDR 1 or $* 0.657893 = US$1. Nigeria continued to avail itself of wider ma rg ins. 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Nigerian pound. All foreign currencies have been designated as speci- fied currencies. 364 repatriation of capital and transfer of profits to any country outside Nigeria; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly f rom out- side Nigeria; the granting of "approved status" to non- resident investments in Nigeria; and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most com- mercial banks and acceptance houses have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and thus are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fa ll within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers for the purchase of foreign currency and travelers checks from foreign visitors and Nigerians newly arrived in the country. The Central Bank applies a system of foreign exchange ra t ion ing in its biweekly allocations of foreign exchange to authorized dealers. Allocations are deter- mined within the framework of a foreign exchange budget. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Import Quota Allocation Committee, comprising officials of the Minis- tries of Trade, Finance, Industry, Planning, and Cus- toms, as well as representatives of the Central Bank. Import licenses for petroleum products, however, are issued by the Federal Commissioner of Mines and Power. Prescription of Currency Under U. K. exchange control regulations, Nigeria is considered a country of the Overseas Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947, Authorized payments to countries other than Rhodesia may be made in Nigerian pounds to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rho- desia may be received in Nigerian pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency. How- ever, certain settlements with Niger are channeled through special accounts. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Nigerian pounds of persons resident out- side Nigeria are divided into three categories: Rhodesia Accounts, maintained for residents of Rhodesia; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution External Accounts, maintained for residents of all other countries; and Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by directives given under Sec- tion 27 of the Exchange Control Act. External Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Rho- desian currency. Rhodesia Accounts have been blocked since July 3, 1969. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered. All imports from Rhodesia, South Africa, and Namibia (South West Africa) are prohibited, as is the import from all countries of certain specified commodities for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons; the import of about 20 other commodities or groups of commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions have been complied with and these conditions are specified in the license au thor iz ing such imports. Individual import licenses are required for certain goods from all sources, including rice, corn, and wheat, as well as products the export of which is subject to Marketing Board control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Im- ports neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license. Mandatory deferred payment periods of 90 or 180 days af ter arrival have been established for most com- modities. Certain official imports and other specified imports, however, may be settled at sight of shipping documents. Capital equipment with a value in excess of £N 50,000 must be imported on specified deferred payment terms. Authorized dealers may otherwise grant foreign exchange for authorized imports. Payment in advance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank and is not normally allowed. A "national reconstruction surcharge" of 5 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on virtually all imports. Payments for Invisibles Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some categories of invisibles this is granted either up to specified limits or up to the amount of the bill or invoice by the authorized dealers. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by the authorized dealers and are not among those requir- ing approval by the Ministry of Finance (such as profits and dividends) 2 are forwarded to the Central Bank, which gives approval for some types of payment, pro- NIGERIA vided that tax and other requirements have been satis- fied. However, certain delays may occur in the granting of the exchange. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria and all insurance companies operating in the country must reinsure with the National Insurance Corporation. Sixty per cent of ship charter payments must be settled in local currency, except when government-sponsored shipping companies are involved. Residents are entitled to a basic tourist travel allow- ance of <£N 100 a person a year for travel outside Africa ( < £N 35 a year a child, subject to a limit of <£N 300 for any one family un i t ). Foreign exchange for this purpose may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and air- line companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for any destination, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. There is a separate basic allowance for travel within Africa. This allowance is <£N 25 a person a year i(ha lf of that for a child) where the return ticket is valued at less than <£N 25, or up to the value of the ticket (subject to a maximum of <£N 100 for each adult person a year or «£N 50 for each child) where the return ticket is valued at <£N 25 or more; in either case, the maximum for each family unit is <£N 300 in any calendar year. Applications for nontourist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may purchase annually foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross taxable earnings in Nigeria for all personal remittances (includ- ing insurance, education, and medical expenses, but excluding the basic travel allowance), up to a maximum of <£N 4,500 a person in any financial year. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes and travelers checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and travelers checks that were declared upon entry, minus the amount converted locally into Nigerian currency. The export of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most locally produced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any other country except South Africa and Namibia (South West A f r i c a ), to which exports require individual licenses. Individual export licenses are required for exports of cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of tin, tan- talite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by Marketing Boards (e.g., cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, 2 Investment income accrued or accruing to nonresidents after the end of 1970 is not transferable. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm kernels). The selling abroad of all export crops purchased by the Boards is the responsibility of the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company. The export of cer ta in goods (Afr ican an t iqu i- ties or wo rks of art produced before 1918, objects that are be ing used or have been used in A f r ican ceremonies) is p roh ib i ted, except under prescribed conditions. The export of explosives, other than indus t r ial explosives, and of certain foods is proh ib i ted. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrange- ments. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a commercial bank, to the Central Bank w i th in three mon ths of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petro- leum products, however, are exempt f rom the surrender requirements. For all exports, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, who is required to surrender them to the Central Bank. Per- sons entering Nigeria may freely bring in foreign banknotes. The import of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing impo r t s3 or exports, permission from the Ministry of Finance is required for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow in any country outside Nigeria. Official agencies and state-controlled corpora- tions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is also required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or com- pany, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary short- ages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or over- draft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Banks have been directed to allocate 40 per cent of their total loans and advances to Nigerians. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities nor may they buy from or sell to non- residents of Nigeria any security payable in Nigerian pounds w i thout the permission of the Ministry of 3 However, the taking up of suppliers' credit abroad (as distin- guished f rom the mandatory deferred payments for imports) is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. 366 Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is ob ta ined. Remittances of cash gifts to nonresidents normally are restricted to the equivalent of <£N 50 for each transferor a calendar year in favor of charitable orga- nizations outside Nigeria. Exchange for the transfer of assets by emigrants or repatriates is granted on final departure from the country. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank credit are invested in local enterprises. All foreign-owned companies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incor- ported in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for num isma t ic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed without special per- mission to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the M in is try of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties, producers of gold, and industrial users. Further- more, the import of gold coins current in the United Kingdom requires a license from the Commissioner of Customs and Excise. Imports of gold coins and of gold and silver bullion are duty free when made by the Central Bank for monetary purposes; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs du ty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1972 January 7. The Central Bank released an additional installment of foreign exchange equivalent to <£N 35 million in reduction of the short-term commercial arrears outstanding on March 31, 1971. A final install- ment liquidating these arrears was made available on February 25, 1972. January 12. Arrears of profit and dividend remit- tances outstanding as at the end of 1971 were required to be declared to the Federal Ministry of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 15. It was announced that henceforth no oil concessions would be granted to any foreign or national physical or ju r id ical persons. The Na t ional Oil Corporation was vested with all areas not covered by existing leases and licenses. February 23. The Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1972 specified 22 industries which would be reserved for N iger ian ownership. An additional 33 industries were restricted to Nigerian ownership pro- vided pa id-up capital did not exceed £N 200,000 and that annu al tu rnover did not exceed <£N 500,000; enterprises in these industries w i th larger paid-in capital were required to be 40 per cent owned by Nigerian interests. Compliance was required by March 31, 1974. April 1. Under the Import Prohibition (Amendmen t) Order, 1972, specific import licenses were required for bicycle tires and tubes, duplicating paper, corn, and stockfish. Furthermore, a license f rom the Federal Commissioner for Mines and Power was required for the importation of petroleum products. April 1. The manda tory deferment system for import payments was relaxed. For certain goods and for emergency official imports, payment now could be made at sight of shipping documents. Payment for buses and building materials now could be made at the expiration of 90 days f rom the date of arrival of the goods in Nigeria, instead of after 180 days, as previously. New, accelerated payments arrange- ments were also introduced for imports of plant and machinery with a value in excess of <£N 50,000; the va lue of machinery that could be imported on 90-day terms was increased to <£N 50,000. Payment for all other imports remained subject to a mandatory deferment period of 180 days from the date of arrival of the goods in Nigeria. April 1. The basic travel allowance was increased from <£N 75 to <£N 100 a person a year for travel outside Afr ica, with an allowance of <£N 35 a year a child (previously <£N 37) and subject to a limit of £N 300 a year for a family unit (previously £N 190). The basic allowance for travel within Africa also was increased, depending on the value of the return ticket. April 1. Permissible remittances by resident foreign nationals were increased from 25 per cent to 50 per cent of gross salaries, subject to a maximum of <£N 4,500 (previously <£N 3,000) a person a year. NIGERIA April ]. Profits and dividends earned or declared up to December 31, 1970 could be remitted in fu l l. Amoun ts accruing a f ter that date remained nontrans- ferable. April 1. Import duties on raw materials and cer- tain consumer goods, including motor vehicles, were reduced. April 1. A un i fo rm import du ty of <£N 0. 3s. 9d. per square yard, or 66% per cent ad valorem, which- ever is the higher, was imposed on woven and knitted textile fabrics. April 1. The Government announced that it would acquire an equity share of at least 40 per cent in foreign-owned commercial banks and a controlling interest in two motor vehicle assembly plants to be established in Nigeria. As part of its policy of control of strategic sectors in the economy, the Government also planned compulsory equity participation in foreign- owned oil producing companies. April 1. The minimum proportion of total loans and advances that banks were required to allocate to Nigerians was increased f rom 35 per cent to 40 per cent. April 14. The buying commission included in the customs value of imported goods had to reflect the actual amount invoiced; previously, a standard charge of 4 per cent was taken into account for customs valua- tion purposes. The buying commission no longer was transferable where the foreign exporter was associated with the importer in Nigeria. (From April 28, the commission charged by associated overseas companies could be included in the foreign exchange earnings of the supplier.) June 23. Nigeria ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. The Central Bank suspended its sterling quotations. Subsequently the system of non- resident accounts was reorganized by the merging of Scheduled Territories Accounts into External Accounts, and the prescription of currency rules were revised accordingly. A revised edition of the exchange control instruction manual embodying these changes was issued on July 31. June 29. The Central Bank resumed sterling quota- tions. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Exchange Rate System* The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Nor- wegian Krone. A central rate of NKr 6.64539 = US$1 has been established, and Norway avails itself of wider margins. Margins of approximately 21A per cent either side of the central rate or the cross-parity are main- tained for the U. S. dollar, the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Luxembourg franc, and the Nether- lands guilder. The official limits for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, are NKr 6.495 buying, and NKr 6.795 selling, per US$1 —rates at which the exchange authorities will buy or sell; the rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for currencies other than those mentioned above vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Norway and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. For- ward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks' forward transac- tions with nonbank residents must have a commercial basis. Norway forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The au thor i ty to approve most current pay- ments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Payments between Norway and Rhodesia are pro- hibited when they relate to imports, exports, or transit trade, and in all other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements with all other countries except Eastern Germany may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Payments between Nor- way and Eastern Germany are settled on a bilateral basis in accordance with a clearing arrangement. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, No rway ma in ta ined the va lue of its cur- rency in terms of SDKs. With e f fect f rom Feb rua ry 15, 1973, a central ra te of NKr 5.98086 = US$1 was established, and the in ter- ven t ion points were changed to NKr 5.845 buy ing, and NKr 6.115 selling, per US$1. 368 Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Conver- tible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries except Eastern Germany (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with authorized payments to any country other than Eastern Germany, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country except Eastern Germany to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Industrial goods may be imported freely from the import free list area * upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural products are restricted, irrespective of origin. There are two restricted lists for industrial goods for specified countries—one applicable to imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U. S. S. R., and the other applicable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Korea; many of the goods on these lists are licensed automatically. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains 12 quotas for agricul- tural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years old or older and certain categories of fish- ing vessels, may be imported freely,2 but special permis- sion is required in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical prod- ucts, and d rugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any other country except Eastern Ger- many for all current invisibles, including income from 1 All countries except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Roman ia, U. S. S. R., and No r th Viet-Nam. 2 Au toma t ic authorization is not granted for imports from Albania, ma in land China, Republic of China, Eastern Germany, Macao, Mongolia, Nor th Korea, Nor th Viet-Nam, and Rhodesia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution capital and contractual amortization, may be made freely. Payments for invisibles to Eastern Germany must be made in the manner prescribed in the payments arrangement, a liberal practice being followed with regard to most invisibles. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Eastern Germany or Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks, pro- vided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 500. The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reason- able amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100.3 Non- residents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to countries in the export free list area,4 against a declaration or a license, which is granted automatically. Exports subject to regu- lation are listed and require export licenses. All exports to countries outside the export free list area require an export license. Exports valued at not more than NKr 500 to any country are exempt from export license. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, human i ta r ian, or educational purposes. Payments must be received within 12 months of ship- ment and in conform i ty w i th the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered, but this requirement has been suspended un t il fur ther notice. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles mu st be sur- rendered, but this requirement has been suspended until further notice. Each person entering Norway may bring in Norwegian banknotes and coins up to NKr 1,000, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and other means of payment without limit.5 Capital Inward t rans fe rs of capital and investments in Nor- way by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require ind iv idual licenses; the g ran t ing of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for ou tward transfers of 3 On J anu a ry 12, 1973 increased to NKr 800 in No rweg ian bank- notes only, in denom ina t ions not exceeding NKr 100. 4 All coun tr ies except A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, m a in l and Ch ina, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Roman ia, U. S. S. R., and No r th V ie t-Nam. 5 From Janua ry 12, 1973, travelers were perm i t ted to b r ing in any amount in Norwegian banknotes, in d enom in a t ions not exceed ing NKr 100. NORWAY proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also per- mitted freely. Most transactions in securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Norwe- gian securities denominated in Norwegian kroner and purchased by nonresidents from Norwegian residents by special permission may be resold to Norwegian resi- dents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds from the sale. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to fam i ly loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely to any member country of the Interna- tional Monetary Fund. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest- ments, have to be surrendered, but this requirement has been suspended until fu r ther notice. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are considered on their individual merits, and portfolio invest- ment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident- owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the exception of securities issued by foreign investment companies or mutual funds, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they have been bought w i th the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Transactions in foreign securities between residents against settlement in kroner require a license from the Bank of Norway if the securities were not included in an authorized broker's safe deposit for customers on May 31, 1969. Residents may upon application transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 60,000 a fam i ly; such purchases by business firms, staff associations, etc., are approved liberally, also for higher amounts. In accordance with guidelines of December 13, 1971, the aggregate net foreign liability position of the banks may not deviate by more than NKr 260 million f rom the position at the end of October 1971, i.e., it must not be less than NKr 555 million or more than NKr 1,075 million. On May 23, 1972, however, the commercial banks were exempted un t il fur ther notice f rom these guidelines. There are limits on the com- mercial banks' borrowing abroad. Thus, they may borrow funds or accept deposits in foreign currency f rom fore ign banks w i th in a ceiling fixed at 20 per cent above their total foreign borrowing at the end of December 1970. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incurr ing or providing guar- antee obligations abroad. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Norway. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the Bank of Norway; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bu l l ion and gold coins not contained in jewe lry. Domestic sales of gold coins are subject to sales tax at a rate of 20 per cent. Changes during 1972 January 1. Imports of certain textiles of Singapore origin were restricted. January 22. Norway signed a trea ty for accession to the EEC. In view of the outcome of a re fe rendum held on September 25, however, it was subsequently decided not to accept membership in the EEC. Norway instead remained a member of EFT A. April L Imports of rice were liberalized and ceased to be subject to a global quota. May 23. The Bank of Norway narrowed the exchange rate margins for the currencies of member countries of the EEC, Denmark, and the United Kingdom. The Bank established official buying and selling rates for each of these currencies; previously, it maintained official buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. do l lar only. May 23. As a result of Norway's participation in the EEC arrangements for the narrowing of exchange rate margins, which implied that the Bank of Norway could no longer purchase foreign exchange except at the lower intervention point, commercial banks no longer could acquire krone liquidity through the sale of foreign currencies to the Bank of Norway. May 23. The Bank of Norway exempted un t il fu r ther notice the authorized banks f rom the December 13, 1971 guidelines concerning their net external liability positions. Requests for exemptions f rom the guidelines concerning the authorized banks' borrowing of funds and acceptance of deposits in foreign currency from foreign banks had to be referred to the Bank of Norway for consideration. June 23. The Bank of Norway suspended its official buying and selling rates for sterling and the Danish krone. Those for the Danish krone were reinstated on October 3. October 9. Norway and Denmark agreed to continue un t il the end of 1973 their mu tual industrial free trade arrangements. October 19. It was announced that Norway would seek to negotiate a free trade agreement with the EEC. November 6. Norway and the United Kingdom agreed to con t inue un t il the end of 1973 their mu tual indus t r ial free trade arrangemen ts. 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN Exchange Rate System * Oman's currency is the Rial Oman! which is defined as equ iva lent to 2 .13281 grams of fine gold, correspond- ing to RO 0.416667 = SDR 1 or RO 1 - US$2.60571. No par value has yet been established. The banks quote two d i f fe rent selling rates for the U. S. dollar (a "free" rate for rem i t tances and an "official" rate for commercial t ransac t ions ), but not for other cur- rencies. On December 30, 1972, the buy ing rate for the U . S. dollar was RO 0.380 per US$1; the "free" selling rate for the U. S. dollar was RO 0.3885 per US$1 and the "official" selling rate was RO 0.3875 per US$1. On the same date, the buy ing and selling rates for sterling were RO 0.890 and RO 0.910 per £ stg. 1, respectively. Administration of Control There is ne i ther exchange control legislation nor an exchange control au tho r i ty in Oman. The banks, how- ever, consult the Secretary for Financial Affairs before app rov ing ou tward capital transfers exceeding RO 20,000. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. The use of the currencies of Israel and Rhodesia also is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, morals, or security. Imports of Maria Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Import licenses are not required and exchange for pay- ments abroad may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or sur- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Oman maintained the value of its currency in terms of gold. The parity rate for the U. S. dollar became RO 1 = US$2.89524. rendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regard- less of the cu r rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, except that no paymen ts must be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. The banks consult the Secretary for Financial A f fa i rs concerning all out- ward capital transfers exceeding RO 20,000. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior approval. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel and Rhodesia, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1972 March 9. A decree regulating foreign investment in Oman was signed. It became effective upon promulga- tion the same month. A licensing requirement was introduced and a Committee for the Investment of Foreign Capital was established. Special privileges could be granted to foreign investment in projects declared to be economic development projects. June 23. Oman ceased to be treated administratively as a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. Subse- quently, the banks' discretionary power was withdrawn under which they could refuse to make payments out- side the Sterling Area on behalf of Sterling Area residents with exchange originating in that Area which accrued to a resident of the Sterling Area. June 26. Following the floating of sterling, Oman maintained the value of its currency in terms of gold and unpegged the rial Saidi from sterling, with which it had been at par. The parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at RS 1 = US$2.60571. November 11. The rial Saidi was renamed rial Omani. No appreciation or depreciation of the cur- rency was involved. November 11. The Currency Office was renamed Omani Currency Board. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.0744103 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee, corresponding to PRs 11.9428 = SDR 1 or PRs 11.00 = US$1, and Pakistan avails itself of wider margins. The U. S. dollar is the inter- vention currency, and the State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) maintains official rates of PRs 11 buy- ing, and PRs 11.0156 selling, per US$1. All trans- actions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against U. S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 21 banks and financial in s t i tu t ions au tho r i ty to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted th rough the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., a state t rad ing agency. Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee accounts. No exchange control is exercised over transac t ions with A fghan is tan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or afghan is. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in incon- vertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities w i th Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, No r th Korea, Nepal, Poland, Romania, Sri Lanka, Sweden, the U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia is settled through clearing accounts maintained in inconvertible Pakistan rupees. Payments to and from Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, Iran ian oil, and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U. S. dollars. * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. do l l ar was be ing d ev a lu ed, Pak i s tan m a in t a in ed i ts par v a l ue in t e rms of gold. The e f fec t ive par i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. do l lar became PRs 9.9 = US$1. The State Bank on F eb ru a ry 16 set new o f f ic ial b u y i ng and se l l ing rates of PRs 9.90 and PRs 9.9156 per U. S. dollar. 372 Payments between Pakistan and the Republic of China, India, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers between nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan can be freely allowed by author- ized dealers, irrespective of the monetary areas con- cerned. Transfers by other nonresident account holders from their credit balances are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Accounts of resi- dents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian High Commission and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistan nationals residing abroad and foreign na- tionals, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open foreign currency accounts with banks in Pakistan without prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated and credit balances may be freely transferred abroad. However, a deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistan national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereafter the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank of Pakistan; forward cover in U.S. dollars is available to the banks from the State Bank for amounts thus sold. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in two lists: a free list and a tied list. Items on the free list may, in principle, be procured w i thout restriction wh i le items on the tied list may be procured only f rom tied aid and barter trade sources. Items not on the two lists are effectively prohibited for import except under certain circumstances by export industries, as men- tioned below. Largely for statistical reasons, all imports require licenses, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes f rom A fghan i s tan and Iran, and cer ta in other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notifi- cation (No. 335 /260 /24 of June 12, 1951). Licenses for imports of a value up to PRs 500 incur no fee, but licenses above that amount up to PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 1 per cent of the value of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution license and licenses above PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 2 per cent payable at the time of the issue of the license. The basic two-list import regime is subject to cer- tain supplementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: ( 1) Imports from the Republic of China, India, Israel, South Africa, and Rhodesia and of goods of Rhodesian origin from any country, are prohibited. (2) In order to facilitate barter trad- ing and aid utilization and to secure economies through bu lk imports, the import of specified items, including seven categories of iron, steel, and metals, is restricted to the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., unless the items are procured with U. S. aid. (3) The import of five items, including fertilizers and specified elec- trical and rail equ ipment (all from tied sources only) is restricted to the public sector. (4) In conformity with Regional Cooperation for Development arrange- ments between Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey governing procurements from jo int industrial ventures, the import of ten items, including six chemical items, is restricted to procurement from Turkey. (5) Special provisions exist for the import for export industries of tied list items from nontied sources and items not on the two import lists. (6) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more must be members of approved trade organiza- tions. (7) Licenses for permissible imports of indus- trial plant and equipment are restricted to a c. & f. value of PRs 200,000 for import under the free list and PRs 500,000 for imports under the tied list (larger plant and equipment are to be procured under the auspices of the financing institutions and w i th the approval of the Ministry of Industries). Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news- papers, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. Remittances are not nor- mally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made with foreign manufacturers, the State Bank may author- ize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. No import payments are permitted to be made for goods originating in or consigned from the Republic of China, Ind ia, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Except for specified items, including items on the tied import list, the State Bank requires banks to take a m in imum margin of 25 per cent against import letters of credit. Impor ts of all commod i t ies, except mach ine ry, are subject to a "defense surcharge" of 25 per cent of the applicable rate of customs duty. Many imports are sub- ject to a customs surcharge ("regulatory du ty"). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No PAKISTAN remittances are permitted to be made to the Republic of China, India, Israel, or Rhodesia. Under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regula- tions. Certain remittances of a personal nature are sub- ject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistan nationals to their families abroad requ ire special authori- zation. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Transport insurance must, except with respect to certain aid shipments, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistan income tax authorities. On an admin- istrative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$500 to each applicant for each journey abroad, irrespective of the purpose. Addi- tional exchange for business travel, medical treatment, education, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. There are also specific allow- ances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan currency notes and coins and any amount of Afghan currency. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas (to India) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 20 in Pakistan currency and, subject to State Bank authorization, up to the equivalent of £10 in foreign currency notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are requ ired for 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items subject to m in imum export prices, and for m i l l -made cotton piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the United Kingdom. Exports to the Republic of Ch ina, Ind ia, Israel, Rho- desia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. The Trading Corporation of Pak is tan, Ltd., has a monopoly over exports of specified products. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter tha t, when payment in accordance w i th the prescribed method is received, he will surrender the exchange 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN w i t h in a certain period of time. A f t er mak ing certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the au thor ized dealer certifies the shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds w i th in four m o n t h s; the State B a nk m ay, on the me r i ts of each case, allow an extension of th is period. The sur- render of A f g h an cu r rency acc ru ing from exports to A fgh an i s t an is not requ i red. Under a Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme, ce r ta in indus tr ial un i ts are perm i t ted to u t i l ize up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. v a lue of exports for servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of p lant and mach inery. Export duties are levied on >a range of export items inc lud ing raw cotton, cotton y a rn, rice, wool, and hides and skins. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of A fghan cu r rency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered w i th in one month. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas (from Ind ia) may not bring in any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may b r ing in PRs 20 in Pak- istan currency notes, subject to declaration to the customs, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denom ina t ions of PRs 50 and above may not be brought in. There is no l im i ta t ion on the import of other currency notes and coins, but they must be declared to the customs on en try. Capital Investments in Pak is tan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage indus tr ial develop- ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who can, with the approval of the Government, start any indus try in the private sector without any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is, how- ever, expected that local rupee expenditure will ordi- narily be met from local equ i ty capital. Repa t r ia t ion fac i l i t ies are as fo l lows: ( 1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established af ter September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time thereafter to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred w i thout restriction, to the coun t ry of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved indus tr ial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as invest- ment for the purpose of subsequent repa t r ia t ion. (3) Appreciation of any capital inves tment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as inves tment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation fac i l i t ies do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. 374 Gua ran tees provide for ju st and f a ir compensa t ion in the currency of the country of origin of the invest- m ent in the event of n a t i o n a l i z a t i on of any project. Foreign n a t ion a ls in Pak is tan or abroad may register th e ir i n v e s tm e n ts in Na t ional Prize Bonds issued by the G o v e r nm e nt of P a k i s t a n, and t h us f a c i l i t a te repa tr ia- t ion at any t ime of the p r inc ipal and the prize w inn ings. T rans fe rs of cap i tal abroad by resident na t iona ls are, in general, not pe rm i t ted; the purchase of fore ign secur- i t ies by resident Pak i s tan is requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom pe rm i t ted. Detailed rules govern the t r a n s f er of cap i tal by persons em ig ra t ing or re t i r ing f rom P ak i s t an, depend ing upon the na t iona l i ty of the person concerned and the coun t ry or mone ta ry area to wh i ch the t r a n s f er is to be made. Foreign na t iona ls tempo ra r i ly residing in Pak is tan are treated as nonres iden ts for purposes of t r a n s f er of securities. General permission has been given in connec t ion with the issue, sale, or t ran s fer of securities issued in Pak is tan in favor of nonres iden ts, provided the securities are registered in Pak is tan and inves tment is made on the basis of n o n r e p a t r i a t i on of capital and r e tu rn. Pak is tan securities held by non res iden ts may be t rans fe r red to other nonres iden ts aga inst payment abroad w i th the same f a c i l i t i es in respect of rem i t tance of capital and earnings as those ob ta ined by the transferor. A general license has also been issued a l low ing fore ign na t iona ls temporar i ly resident in Pak i s tan to make inves tmen ts in un i ts of the Na t ional Inves tment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the l iqu ida t ion of nonres ident capital assets th at are not covered by repa t r ia t ion arrangemen ts may be credited to blocked accoun ts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved gove rnment securities payab le in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pak is tan na t iona ls resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pak is tan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of the ir non- resident accounts in Pak is tan; d iv idends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot norma l ly be transferred abroad. Pak is tan na t iona ls holding movable or immovable assets abroad require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell these, and the l iqu ida- tion proceeds must be repa tr ia ted to Pakistan through normal bank ing channels. Gold The export and import of gold is proh ib i ted unless authorized by the State Bank. No such permission is granted, but there are no restrictions on the internal sale and purchase of nonmone ta ry gold. Changes during 1972 January 2. Ten basic industries were placed under state control. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 3. All citizens of Pak is tan, except students and persons employed abroad, were required to declare and surrender all assets held abroad unless they were held w i th the general or specific permission of the State Bank. Cash ba lances declared und er Martial Law Regu- lation No. 34 of 1969 did not have to be declared again. January 13. The J a n u a ry 3 directives were revised in light of Mar t ial Law Regu la t ions 104 and 105 of 1972. Repa t r ia t ion of fo re ign exchange and of the proceeds of movable p rope r t ies was to be effected by J anu a ry 25 and Feb rua ry 15, respec t ive ly. A 45 per cent bonus was extended to repa tr ia ted fore ign exchange and the rupee proceeds of exchange and bonus were exempted f rom a ll taxes. January 18. The res tr ic t ions on the bank accounts of the Ind ian H igh Commission and its personnel were l i f ted. February 6. The Central Government term ina ted its unde r tak ing of December 6, 1971 to buy export bonus vouchers for spot de l ivery at a prem ium of 175 per cent. February 12. It was announced that the import pro- gram for July-December 1971, as amended from time to time, was being extended for the January-June 1972 shipping period. February 25. An agreement for an exchange of goods on a se lf-ba lanc ing basis was signed between the Trad- ing Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. and A. B. Sukab of Sweden; settlements would take place through special accounts denominated in U. S. do l lars. The agreement came into force immediately, for the period to March 1, 1973. March 6. Retroactive to January 15, 1972, a 45 per cent bonus was granted on the following types of earn- ings in foreign exchange when received through normal bank ing channe ls: all commissions received in foreign exchange; profits, interest, dividends, and rents earned by Pakistanis and Pakistani business houses (other than banks) abroad; remittances made by foreigners (other than d ip loma ts) from abroad for the maintenance of their fam i l ies in Pakistan and for the education expenses of their dependents; pensions earned in foreign exchange, whether for services rendered in Pakistan or outside; receipts on account of bank charges, royalties, trade- marks, and subscriptions to newspapers and magazines; and all professional fees paid for in foreign exchange. In addition, the procedure for remittances under the Home Remittances Bonus Scheme was simplified. March 14. Retroactive to February 28, 1972, the bonus on foreign exchange earnings f rom ship repairs was increased f rom 10 per cent to 45 per cent. March 19. The life insurance industry was national- ized. April 21. The opening of letters of credit for the import of raw material for the pharmaceutical industry under the free list was no longer permitted. The meas- PAKISTAN ure was revoked on May 2, when the import embargo on such raw materials was l i f ted. May 1. Pakistan declared a par t ial mo ra to r ium on external debt service obligations. May 3. Retroactive to Ap r il 5, 1972, a 45 per cent bonus was extended to donations received by charitable and social w e l f a re organizations f rom private organiza- tions or agencies and ind iv idua ls in foreign exchange f rom abroad th rough normal bank ing channels. May 11 (May 12 local t im e ). The par value was changed f rom 0.186621 g ram to 0.0744103 g ram of fine gold per Pakistan rupee. Pakistan availed itself of wider margins and declared the U. S. dollar its interven- tion currency. The exchange rate system was un i f ied by the elimination of the existing multiple exchange rates ranging f rom PRs 4.76 to PRs 13.86 per U .S. dollar (the use of the old par value being limited essentially to public sector transactions and imports under aid and bar ter a r rangemen t s ). The 1959 bonus voucher scheme (including the ex- port bonus scheme, the home remittances bonus scheme, and other similar schemes) was abolished. Compensa- tion for valid and expired bonus vouchers was paid to holders at rates of PRs 193.67 and PRs 170.74, respec- tively, per PRs 100 vouchers. Some export duties were introduced (including a du ty of 40 per cent on raw cotton) and import duties and sales taxes on imports were adjusted. The State Bank established revised spot and forward rates for its dealings with authorized banks in U. S. dollars; spot rates were established at PRs 11 buying, and PRs 11.0156 selling, per US$1. The State Bank also set new spot and forward rates for authorized dealers' trans-actions in U. S. dollars with the public. May 14. A new import policy was announced, the details of which were published on May 15 in the Import Policy Order, 1972, which would remain in force until June 30, 1973. In principle, the existing import licensing lists were consolidated into two lists. Twenty-three categories of goods were placed on a tied list for procurement only f rom tied aid or barter trade (bilateral agreement) sources; 327 categories of goods (generally all the items previously importable on cash, cash-cum-bonus, and bonus terms) were placed on a free list for procurement without quantitative restric- tion and f rom any source. Items not included in either list were to be treated as banned items. All "categories" and "entitlements" were abolished. Henceforth, any Pakistani national could act as an importer, subject only to registration. Requests for imports of items on either list had to be submitted, through an authorized bank, to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, who had been given instructions to issue the necessary authorization to the bank concerned within 48 hours of receipt of the application. Af ter receiving authoriza- tion, importers were required to establish letters of credit within 30 days (except for books, newspapers, 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN and periodicals). (On May 24 the State Bank specified the forward exchange facilities that authorized banks could make available to importers. Banks were to sat- isfy themselves as to standing and bona fides of sup- pliers where the amount of the letter of credit was PRs 25,000 or more. This was changed to PRs 60,000 or more on August 29, 1972.) May 25. The State Bank's provision to authorized banks of forward exchange cover in respect of aid, loans, and credits, previously restricted to U. S. dol- lars, was extended to eight other currencies, including the pound sterling, the deutsche mark, and the Japan- ese yen. June 23. Pakistan ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. June 23. The State Bank of Pakistan maintained its official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar unchanged. As a result, the Pakistan rupee began to appreciate in terms of sterling. Subsequently, the State Bank allowed authorized banks to quote to their cus- tomers, as their ready buying rate for sterling, the New York one-month forward buying rate. This arrangement would remain operative until sterling returned to a fixed parity. June. On an administrative basis, the State Bank introduced an exchange allocation of US$500 for each applicant for each journey abroad, irrespective of the purpose of the trip. Up to this time, the allocation of exchange for tourist travel and most other types of private travel (except pilgrimages) had been suspended. July 5. Authorities for banks to approve remittances for certain invisible transactions were extended. The existing limit of PRs 100 a person or organization a year for membership fees of educational, technical, professional, and scientific institutions was raised to PRs 550 and a similar limit of PRs 300 a year was established for membership fees of social clubs. The existing limit of PRs 150 a person a year for exami- nation fees for foreign professional and educational institutions was raised to PRs 400. Remittances cover- ing advertisements in foreign newspapers and magazines were liberalized, there being no limit for exporters and a limit of PRs 2,000 an applicant each six months for advertisers other than exporters. July 18. Authorized banks were permitted to lend to nonresident-controlled companies and businesses in Pakistan for the purchase of raw materials and related expenditures for the production of export goods. August 8. The import of sugar was restricted to the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. August 9. The State Bank changed the rate at which it provided forward cover in U. S. dollars to author- ized dealers in respect of aid, loans, and credits from PRs 11.0469 to PRs 11.0625 per U .S. dollar. Its for- ward rates for other currencies remained unchanged. August 16. Authorized banks were permitted to approve remittances for tender fees payable to govern- ment and semigovernment agencies abroad. August 25 (effective date January 29, 1973). Pakis- tan nationals living abroad and foreign nationals, whether resident in or outside Pakistan, were freely permitted to establish foreign currency accounts with banks in Pakistan. The accounts could be held in any foreign currency and would be free from all restrictions and exchange controls. September 2. Authorized banks were permitted to approve remittances covering fees for registration abroad of patents and trademarks. September 20. The annual exchange allocations for Haj travel were announced. October 24. Restrictions on transfers f rom nonresi- dent rupee accounts of banks resident in the Sterling Area to accounts of banks resident outside the Sterling Area were terminated. Previously, such transfers re- quired prior permission from the exchange control authorities. Henceforth, transfers between nonresident rupee accounts held by banks could be freely allowed by the authorized dealers, irrespective of the monetary area involved. November 1. A State Life Insurance Corporation was established. December 5. Authorized banks and the Pakistan Insurance Corporation were delegated authority to issue guarantees and bonds on behalf of resident exporters, engineering firms, and consultants in favor of nonresi- dents. 376 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System* The par value is 0.8185513 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa, corresponding to B 1.08571 = SDR 1 or B 1.00 = US$1. Panama does not avail itself of wider margins. U. S. currency notes and coins cir- culate freely in Panama, and local currency is repre- sented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins and a commemorative 20-balboa silver coin. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based mainly on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, with the exception of a prohibition on payments to Rhodesia other than those for pensions or for humanitarian, edu- cational, medical, or informational purposes. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panaman ian Government. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. The Minis- try of Commerce and Industry determines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the M in is try of Agricultural and Livestock Develop- ment, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, those for agricultural commodities temporarily in short supply. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of 6 per cent on the f.o.b. value is levied, in add i t ion to import duty, on imports of all dutiable goods other than speci- fied pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the rate is 2l/2 per cent and 3Vi per cent, respectively. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for human i tar ian, educational, medical, or in fo rma t ional purposes. Authorization is required for exports of coffee * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was be ing deva lued, Panama on February 23 established a central rate of B 1 = US$1, corresponding to B 1.20635 = SDR 1. in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle. Merchan- dise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are imposed on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of wheat flour, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except for most payments to Rhodesia. A travel tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets pur- chased for travelers commencing their journey in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Several foreign- supervised banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and may free ly negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are sub- ject to license if made by residents other than the mone- tary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try and export licenses by the M in is try of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export du ty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U. S. coins, which are exemp t) to a du ty of l/2 per cent. Changes during 1972 During the year, the import of a number of com- modities was prohibited. These included certain fats, milk and dairy products, rice, flour, sugar, and certain cotton textiles. April 5. The par value was changed from 0.888671 to 0.8185513 gram of fine gold per balboa. The new par value replaced the central rate of B 1.00 = US$1. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at B 1.00 = US$1. July 14. Import licenses for footwear were made conditional on purchases of domestic footwear at a ratio of one pair to ten. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System * On March 1, 1956, a new par v a lue for the Para- guayan Gua rani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transac t ions no longer take place at rates based on that par va lue. Exchange t rans- actions take place at f ree ma rket rates. The Cen t ral Bank's f ree market rate for the U. S. do l lar has since October 1960 been pegged at 0 126.00 per US$1, subject to commissions. All purchases and sales of for- eign exchange must be made th rough au tho r ized com- mercial banks, except those related to gove rnment paymen ts for imports and services, which are carried out th rough the Cen t ral B ank. All purchases and sales of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of 1 per cent, except transac t ions with foreign embassies and diplo- mats; transac t ions with meat packing plants; and trans- actions re la t ing to inves tmen ts in Paraguay that are cov- ered by Law No. 216 of November 9, 1970. In addi- tion, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. A tolerated parallel market exists in which the buy ing rate for the U. S. dollar was about 0 140 on December 31, 1972. There are no fo rwa rd exchange facilities. The authorized banks are required to sell 30 per cent of their gross foreign exchange receipts in specified cur- rencies l to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay determines foreign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by authorized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Payments between Paraguay and Argen t ina, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru may be made through accounts which the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned ma in ta in with each other, within the f ramewo rk of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.2 All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the Central Bank maintained unchanged its spot buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar. Later in 1973 Paraguay introduced a dual exchange market. In the official exchange market (mercado libre de cambio), transactions continued to be based on the rate of 0 126 = US$1; in the other market (mercado libre fluctuante de cambio), transactions took place at a fluctuating rate. 1 Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 These incude certain agricultural products, depending on the season, certain petroleum products, cement, and certain wire and wire products. 378 licensing. Imports of most commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for 120 days, or if the deposit is made a f ter the date of shipment, 180 days, or for nonexempt commodities imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required fo r, inter alia, public sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign s taff of certain in te rna t ional o rgan iza t ion s, f u el and pe t ro leum de r iva t ives, cer ta in machinery, agricultural equipment, wheat, and news- print from any source, imports from neighboring coun- tries (including U r u g u a y ), and imports from other LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the National List). Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. va lue, are payable on most imports even if no fo re ign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in LAFTA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges f rom 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other LAFTA goods (mainly Pharmaceuticals) in a special list the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived from petroleum is subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighbor- ing countries, inc lud ing Uruguay). There is an addi- tional surcharge of 5 per cent (resu l t ing in a total surcharge of 41 per cen t) on imports f rom all sources of radios and record players and their parts and acces- sories. Commodities that are exempt f rom surcharge generally are also exempt f rom advance deposit. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clear- ance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal exemptions from surcharge: wheat; crude petroleum; equipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation; agricultural tractors; imports for the Government; imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes; imports by foreign diplomats and certain international organizations; Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Span- ish free zone in Paraguay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program; books and periodicals; and imports for investments under the new Capital Investment Law No. 216. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a ta r i ff sur- charge is levied on certain imports by v i r tue of Law No. 1334/67, which implemented Decree-Law No. 451 of March 31, 1967, and Law No. 10 of August 29, 1968. On goods that are not exempt, it is 12-24 per cent (8-16 per cent for certain goods subject to LAFTA concessions) and is levied on the c.i.f. value, which is calculated as follows: the f .o .b. value plus 10 per cent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for imports from neighboring countries and the f.o.b. va lue plus 20 per cent for imports f rom other coun- tries. Exempt from this complementary import duty are pub l ic sector and d ip loma t ic imports; raw materials and equ ipment for the produc t ion of goods that are subject to in te rnal consump t ion taxes; imports under Capital Investment Law No. 216; and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Imports that are considered to be of a luxury or nonessential char- acter are subject to sales tax at 5 per cent or 10 per cent by virtue of Law No. 69/68. In add i t ion to those mentioned above, the following charges are levied on the c.i.f. va lue of imports: a consu lar fee of 5 per cent, an impo rt clearance fee of 1 per cent, and a customs surcharge of IVz per cent, from which wheat and certain other commodities are exempt and the proceeds of which go to the Ins t i tu te of Technology and Standards. Moreover, imports of construction ma ter ia ls are subject to an additional cus- toms surcharge of 1 per cent, the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Housing and Urbanization. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months requ ire approval from the Central Bank. This approval is no rma l ly gran ted on ly for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks. Import payments are free from formal restriction, but cer ta in arrears have arisen from time to time as a result of periodic releases of foreign exchange to the pr iva te commercial banks by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell exchange free ly for speci- fied cu r rent invisibles, provided that appropriate docu- mentation is submitted. They may grant allocations for travel purposes as follows, for each person each trip: the equ iva lent of US$150 for Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and U ruguay; of US$300 for other Latin American countries and of US$1,000 for all other countries. Banks may also sell exchange for living expenses of s tuden ts abroad (including tuition) in amounts gen- erally up to US$200 a mon th. Applications for exchange for other invisibles or for unusually large amounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Trav- elers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams are prohibited. Certain exports require licenses in order to assure domestic supplies. All other exports are free of license but require a certificate issued by the Institute of Tech- nology and Standards. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days af ter completion of ship- ping formalities, and the exchange sold to an author- ized commercial bank; there are no legal sanctions for noncompliance with this requirement unless this is noti- fied to the Central Bank by the Superintendency of PARAGUAY Banks. For all exports m in imum surrender prices de- nominated in U. S. dollars (aforos) are established; export proceeds corresponding to these prices, on which any fiscal charges are based, should be surrendered. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to authorized banks. Producers of coffee are permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds; such retained proceeds may only be used to meet dividend and interest payments due to nonres iden ts and to pay for imports of machinery and equipment for the pro- ducers' own use. Most exports are subject to taxes payable in gua ran ies of 7l/2 per cent, 5 per cent, or 2l/2 per cent of the f.o.b. value (equivalent to the relevant aforo p r i c e ); these taxes are collected by the banks. Exports of meat products are exempt from export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized banks, but there is no sanction on noncom- pliance. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks. Authorized banks may grant exchange freely for contractual capital transfers, sub- ject to presentation of appropriate documentation. Other outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Law No. 216 of November 9, 1970, the Capital Investment Law, empowers the Gov- ernment to g rant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign investments, provided that these are registered; the terms may vary from case to case. Capital imported under Law No. 216 may be retransferred in install- ments of up to 20 per cent f rom the third year after the beginning of production, in the currency originally imported. Gold Decree-Law No. 18 of 1952 provides that the Cen- tral Bank may determine the max imum amount of gold and foreign exchange that residents may hold; exempt is any amount acquired f rom the Central Bank or insti- tutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In prac- tice residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad. Exports and imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank for which resi- dents other than banks and industrial users are eligible; payments for gold imports must be made through authorized banks. Changes during 1972 January 3. The reciprocal credit agreement with Colombia came into effect. lolombia came into effect. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY the February 18. Decree No. 24489 prohibited export of logs and rough beams. June 21. Decree No. 26729 provided for the reduc- tion by 50 per cent of ( 1) the customs and additional custom duties (Law No. 667 /24 ); (2) the complement- ary customs duties (Law No. 1224 /67 ); and (3) the import surcharge (Law No. 1334 /67 ). These reduc- tions were applicable to imports of raw materials and other inputs destined for domestic industries, provided that the goods were not produced in Paraguay and that local substitutes were not available. The same Decree imposed a prohibition on the import of speci- fied consumer items produced in Paraguay. June 21. Decree No. 26730 prohibited the sale of foreign exchange for certain luxury imports, including gold bars. For the same goods, the decree reduced the complementary duty from 24 per cent to 12 per cent and established a un iform additional customs duty of 1V2 per cent (previously, for the goods men- tioned, the customs duty had been IVi per cent to 15 per cen t). July 3. Decree No. 26918 revoked the prohibition on the sale of foreign exchange for imports of goods referred to in Decree No. 26730 of June 21. August 2. The bilateral payments agreement with Spain was terminated. December 29. Decree No. 30076 reduced import duties on numerous textile products. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was established by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market with two fixed exchange rates, an exchange cer- tificate market rate applying to all trade transactions and specified nontrade transactions, including the prin- cipal capital movements, and a d ra ft market rate for services and most other nontrade transactions. The for- eign exchange requirements of the public sector are met entirely through the certificate market. Export proceeds must be converted into exchange certificates, which are valid for three days and are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru in U. S. dollars only. These exchange certificates may be used, only through the intermediary of commercial banks, to pay for imports and for certain nontrade transactions. Generally, no exchange certificates are issued against export proceeds surrendered by the public sector, nor are certificates used to cover foreign payments of the public sector, since normally the Central Reserve Bank buys and sells foreign exchange direct from and to government agencies at the certificate rate. When approved appli- cations for certificates exceed the supply, the Central Reserve Bank sells foreign exchange at the certificate market ra te w i thout any delay. All foreign exchange receipts that are not required to be surrendered at the certificate rate must be sold in the draft market, in which only the Banco de la Nation and its author- ized agents operate. Access to the d ra ft market is controlled and purchases of foreign exchange are permitted only for specified payments not eligible for exchange at the certificate rate. The banks are required to quote a single rate for buying and selling certificates, but they may charge a commission of 1A of 1 per cent, buying and selling, on transactions in the d ra ft market. On December 31, 1972 the certifi- cate market rate was S/.38.70 per US$1 (buy ing and se l l ing) and the draft market rate was S/. 43.38 buy ing and S/. 43.50 selling, per US$1. A stamp tax of 1 per cent is payable on most outward remittances. Peru forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses are issued by the Directorate of For- eign Trade in the Ministry of Indus t ry and Commerce. The Central Reserve Bank controls the use of certif- icates for import payments. It also authorizes the use of certificates for nontrade transactions; for profit remittances by branches of fore ign companies, prior approval by the M in is try of Economy and Finance must be obtained in addition. All imports of, and most payments for services by, the public sector require the approval of the Board for Foreign Transactions of the Public Sector and a resolution of the Ministry of Economy and Finance; a similar Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector approves import payments by the private sector on the basis of import authorizations issued by the competent sectoral minis- tries. Borrowing abroad by the public sector as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- ernment guarantee are subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, upon favorable recommendation by the National Planning Institute and by the Permanent Commission on External Credits in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Borrowing abroad by the public sector is in addition subject to approval by the High Committee of the External Debt. Prescription of Currency In principle, all export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies; exchange certificates at present are only issued in U. S. dollars, but the central bank is empowered to issue certificates denominated in any convertible currency. Settlements in respect of trade transactions with Hungary and Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U. S. dollars, which have been established under bilateral paymen ts agreements. No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments The import of a number of consumer goods that are considered nonessential is prohibited from any source other than LAFTA countries. Moreover, the import of a large number of manu fac tu res included in the National Register of Manu fac tu red Products requires the approval of the customs authorities, which is granted only in exceptional circumstances. Private sector imports require the prior authorization of the competent sectoral ministry on the basis of an annual import application submitted by the importer. The Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector allocates exchange in accordance with the import appli- cations approved by the sectoral ministries. Public sector agencies may not place import orders without the prior approval of the Commission on External Transactions and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Certain agricultural commodities, such as rice and wheat, may be imported only by, or within quotas set 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU by, the Public Company for Ag r icu l tu ral Services (EPSA), and crude petroleum and petroleum deriva- tives only by PETROPERU, a gove rnment agency. Certain indus tr ial raw materials may be imported only by the Na t ional En terpr ise for Indus t r ial Marketing (ENC I ). The use of certificates for import payments requires the prior authorization of the Central Reserve Bank, which provides the fo re ign exchange to the commercial banks against delivery of the certificates. The commercial banks must present evidence that the entire amount represented by the certificates will be used for the importation of merchandise. Imports, whether made under documentary letters of credit or on a documen tary collection basis, may be paid with certificates. The relative shipping documen ts and the bill of lading must be forwarded to a commercial bank and presented to the Central Reserve Bank for regis- tration and validation. Submission of import contracts or other evidence supporting the transaction is required for advance import paymen ts when the shipping docu- ments are not available; in addition, the intermediary bank must deposit with the Central Reserve Bank the local currency counterpart of the f.o.b. value of the import, and the deposit is forfeited to the Central Reserve Bank if the required shipping documents are not submitted within 30 days following the utilization of the foreign exchange. M in imum suppliers' credit terms have been prescribed for imports of machinery and equipment valued at over US$10,000. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean freight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricultural and medical products, books, and coins. Public sector imports must in principle be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. v a lu e .l Payments for Invisibles Authorization is required in order to pay for invis- ibles with certificates or at the certificate rate. The transactions in invisibles that are eligible for the certif- icate market include government payments, profit remittances by branches of foreign companies operat- ing in Peru, dividend remittances to foreign share- holders (provided that the original investment took place af ter May 15, 1970 at the certificate ra te ), inter- est payments on those loans for which amortization may be transferred through the certificate market, remuneration of technicians hired abroad, and other contractual obligations either already contracted or to be contracted in the fu tu re. Remittances of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances, require a resolution of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, a prior tax clearance, and the visa of the Central Reserve Bank. Moreover, new foreign investments 1 With effect from Janua ry 1, 1973 this import surcharge was absorbed into the customs t a r i f f. 382 must be registered with the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce in order to have access to the certificate market for profit remittances and to enjoy tax incen- tives under Peru's incentive laws. Rem i t tances of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru are limited to 14 per cent a year; foreign-owned enterprises may not pay royalties under new contracts to a fore ign parent company or its a f f i l ia tes; and the effec t ive interest rate on a new loan f rom a fore ign pa rent company or its foreign affiliate may not exceed by more than 3 per cent the preva i l ing in terest rate for first-class assets in the money ma rket of the coun t ry in whose currency the transaction is denominated. Exchange for payments that are not eligible for exchange certificates must be obtained in the d r a ft marke t, subject to the prior authorization of the Banco de la Nac ion. For payments in respect of a large number of cu r r ent inv is ib les the sale of foreign exchange is au thor ized f r e e l y, e i ther by the Banco de la Nacion or its agents, provided evidence is presented that genu ine cu r rent payments are involved. These categories include interest on loans for which amortization payments are permitted to be transferred through the d ra ft market, and payments for royalties, patents, trademarks, rental income, pensions, and com- missions. For certain other paymen ts basic allocations have been established up to which fore ign exchange is sold freely. These categories include expenses abroad connected with tourist and business travel, study, and family maintenance. The basic limit up to which for- eign exchange for tourist travel may be sold is the equivalent of S/. 1,000 a person a day for a maximum of 30 days in any one calendar year for travel to a Latin American country, and of S/. 1,200 a person a day for the same max imum period to other coun- tries. The Banco de la Nacion fixes basic max imum amounts of foreign exchange which may be purchased annua l ly by each eligible company for business travel abroad by its officials. There is a travel tax, which takes the fo rm of a tax on a traveler's acquisition of goods and services abroad (including the cost of pas- sages and fares) of 10 per cent on amounts up to the daily limits specified above, and of 50 per cent on any amounts in excess of these limits; the m in imum amount payable is S/. 50 a day for each day spent abroad. Exempt are residents traveling on official business and foreign diplomats. The tax is paid prior to departure on the basis of a sworn declaration specifying sep- arately the amount of the fare, the value of anticipated services to be received, and daily expenses. Air and sea passages are in addition subject to a 7 per cent ad valorem tax (3 per cent for economy class f a r e s ) .2 The export of domestic currency in excess of S/. 1,000 by travelers is prohibited. 2 On January 23, 1973 Decree-Law No. 19897 introduced the requ ire- ment of a special travel permit (permiso especial de salida y reingreso) for business travel abroad by foreign nationals resident in Peru. Such permits were valid for six mon ths and cost S/. 2,400 each. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds The Banco Minero del Peru has a monopoly over the export of precious metals, uncut precious stones, and pearls, and the Empresa M ine ra del Peru (M INEROPERU) has a monopoly over all other min- eral exports. Coffee exports are controlled by EPSA. All exports are subject to license to assure the neces- sary supply of export proceeds to the certificate market. Export proceeds must be received in U. S. dollars. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru; the latter must surrender the foreign exchange proceeds within ten working days of payment. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight draf ts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Ex- porters of non t rad i t ional exports are granted transfer- able tax credit certificates equivalent to 15-30 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue (of the f.o.b. value when the goods are shipped in fore ign vesse ls). These certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obliga- tions or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Public sector entities must surrender their fu ll receipts at the certificate rate. All other receipts from invisibles must be sold in the d ra ft market. Travelers may not bring in more than S/. 1,000 in Peruvian currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require prior approval. In addition to government payments, certain capital payments on pr iva te account may be effected through the certificate market. The use of exchange certificates may be authorized for the amortization of foreign loans contracted by the private sector, provided that the for- eign exchange proceeds of the loan have been surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank. Where such debt was contracted before October 9, 1967, certificate exchange may be allotted by the Central Reserve Bank only to public u t i l i ty enterprises, to earners of foreign exchange, for payment of debts to international organi- zations, and for payments of debts guaranteed by the State. The proceeds of all foreign loans received after June 17, 1971 must be converted in the certificate market; amortization and service payments in respect of these loans are also settled through the certificate market. Payments in connection with all other loans that were not channeled through the certificate market before June 17, 1971 must be transferred through the draft market. Foreign investment in Peru is governed by Decree- Law No. 18900 of June 30, 1971, which ratified the Andean Common Market's policy on the treatment of PERU foreign capital, by Decree-Law No. 18999 of October 19, 1971, and by Decree-Law No. 19232, Decree-Law No. 19307, Decree-Law No. 19971, and the legislation ru l- ing the Peruv ian exchange system. All foreign investments in Peru requ i re the prior approval of the competent authorities w i th a view to channeling such investments to projects considered essential for the coun try's devel- opment. If they wish to enjoy for the ir p roduc ts the ad- vantages der iv ing from the du ty-free program of the Cartagena Agreemen t, foreign companies incorporated in Peru as at December 30, 1970, have to agree, within a period of 3 years, to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in such companies so as to transfer them to mixed or national companies du r ing a maxi- mum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, mixed com- panies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital, while national companies are those in which at least 80 per cent of the capital is owned by national investors. Upon expiration of the 3-year period, the participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise has to amount to not less than 15 per cent; this participation must increase to at least 45 per cent after 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of foreign com- panies established in Peru af ter June 30, 1971, the 15 per cent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. For- eign investments in firms engaged in basic industries and in those which export at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt from the gradual transfer require- ment to mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the General Mining Law (Decree-Law No. 18880) of June 8, 1971, which replaced the Mining Code of May 12, 1950. Companies holding mining concessions may enter into mining contracts with the Government pro- viding for special incentives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enterprises with government partici- pation of at least 25 per cent. Under the regime of mining contracts, the Government may grant to mining concessionaires initiating large-scale investment pro- grams tax incentives and guaranteed availability of foreign exchange for transfers of (a) recovery of investment; (b) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prime rate prevailing in the financial market from which the loans originate; (c) payments for justi- fied services; and (d) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed mining enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives which may be granted by special contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Gold The marketing of precious metals and their import and export are governed by Decree-Law No. 18882 of June 15, 1971 and Supreme Decree No. 065-71-EF of the same date. The import and export of precious metals and stones are the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru. All imports and exports of gold are settled in the certificate market. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by the monetary authorities and by authorized industrial and professional users. Domes- tic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only MINEROPERU is authorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. Residents traveling abroad may not take out jewelry valued at over S/. 50,000 unless it has been registered with the customs (S/. 15,000 for trips to bordering countries). Changes during 1972 During 1972, the buying and selling rates in both exchange markets remained unchanged. A large num- ber of commodities were added to the National Register of Manufactured Products. January 6. Decree-Law No. 19262 amended the General Industrial Law on those points where the original text conflicted with the Andean Pact rules on foreign investments. January 11. Decree-Law No. 19266 extended until April 10, 1972 the deadline for the declaration, repa- triation, and surrender of foreign assets held at home or abroad. January 25. Decree-Law No. 19271 made the impor- tation of many goods subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. February 10. Supreme Decree No. 023-72-EF added a wide range of commodities to the list of prohibited imports. These included cheese, fruits, beer, cider, wines, cigars, stationery products, certain skins and hides, and toys. April 25. Supreme Decree No. 070-72-EF provided that the approval of the competent sectoral ministry was required before the Banco de la Nacion could authorize the conversion into foreign currency, for transfer abroad, of the liquidation proceeds of assets in Peru owned by nonresident foreigners. May 10. Supreme Decree No. 076-72-EF approved the statutes of the Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector. June 21. Supreme Resolution No. 408-72-IC/DS provided for the establishment of a commission to study the means for detecting and penalizing the illegal 384 transfer of foreign exchange in connection with the purchase and sale of goods and services abroad. July 11. Supreme Decree No. 032-72-IC/DS entitled exporters of handicraft articles to a tax credit on the same basis as exporters of nontraditional manufactures. July 11. Supreme Decree No. 142-72-EF provided that the Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector would henceforth approve the sale of annual amounts of foreign exchange for all private sector imports that, on the basis of importers' annual import requests, had obtained the prior authorization of the competent sectoral ministries. The Board would also adjust the amounts of foreign exchange it made avail- able for imports so as to take into account any addi- tional import authorizations issued by these ministries during the course of the year. August 1. Decree-Law No. 19491 provided that exports of nontraditional agricultural commodities were to be given incentives similar to those granted to non- traditional manufactures. August 7. The use of suppliers' credit became manda- tory for imports of capital goods valued at over US$10,000. Only 20 per cent of the f.o.b. invoice value of such imports could be paid in cash; the remainder had to be settled in installments, with the prescribed minimum period (af ter final shipment) for the first and the last installment ranging from three months and two years after shipment for goods valued at US$10,001 to US$50,000 to 12 months and five years af ter ship- ment for goods valued at US$400,001 to US$1 million. Imports of machinery and equipment valued at over US$1 million were subject to special payment sched- ules approved by the Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector. Such imports valued at US$10,000 or less could be freely arranged between importer and exporter. October 1. By virtue of Supreme Resolution No. 0208-72-PE of September 21, the export of fish meal and fish oil was suspended. (The suspension was lifted on March 21, 1973 by Supreme Resolution No. 0033-73-PE.) October 12. Decree-Law No. 19568 introduced an export credit guarantee system, to be administered by the Banco de la Nacion. November 15. Supreme Decree No. 275-72-EF cen- tralized in the High Committee of the External Debt the approval authority for the contracting of external loans by the public sector. The Committee was to be set up and chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance. November 28. Supreme Decree No. 284-72-EF implemented Decree-Law No. 19568. November 28. Decree-Law No. 19625 established in the Industrial Bank a Fund for Nontraditional Exports. This Fund's operations were to include the direct ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU financing of nontraditional exports, the extension of credit to financial intermediaries for the financing of such exports, and the opening of lines of credit in favor of foreign entities for the import of Peruvian nontradi- tional exports. November 28. Decree-Law No. 19620 replaced (with effect from January 1, 1973) the stamp taxes on goods and services with a single ad valorem tax, levied at various rates, on production, imports, exports, whole- saling, and services. The standard rate on exports would be 3 per cent, with a reduced rate of 2 per cent for refined and unrefined minerals and a full exemption for nontraditional exports. The standard rate on imports would be 15 per cent, with a reduced rate of 1 per cent for some essentials and a rate of 25 per cent for some luxury goods, and a full exemption for certain food and livestock items. The rate applicable to inter- national air fares would be 7 per cent for first class or 3 per cent for economy class. December 12. Decree-Law No. 19832 transferred the control of coffee exports to EPSA. December 27. Decree-Law No. 19863 amended the Industrial Law and postponed from December 31, 1972 to June 30, 1974 the date by which foreign-owned industrial companies must sign contracts with the State setting out the terms for their transformation into mixed-capital or national companies. December 31. Decree-Law No. 19852 of Decem- ber 26 introduced a new customs tariff using the cus- toms nomenclature of the Andean Group. The ad valorem import tax of 2 per cent and the 10 per cent import surcharge were consolidated with the existing ad valorem rates. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Philippine Peso. All exchange t ransac t ions take place in a free marke t. The Bankers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; d u r i ng 1972 th is rate depreciated f rom P 6.435 to about P 6.78 per U. S. dollar. In spot transactions w i th their customers, commercial banks are required by the Association to observe certain mar- gins. The max imum and m in imum spot buy ing rates are % per cent and 1 per cent below the guiding rate, respectively. The m in imum and max imum spot selling rates are % per cent and H4 per cent above the guid- ing rate, respectively. The Central Bank, wh ich is not governed by the Association's t r ad ing rules, makes its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange w i th in the above marg ins required by the Association. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks quote curren- cies other than the U. S. dollar. Interbank trading takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX ), where the Central Bank f rom time to time acts as a buyer or supplier. D ifferent effective exchange rates arise f rom a stabilization tax of 6 per cent or 4 per cent on proceeds f rom specified major exports. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank issues circulars and memo- randa to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Cer- tain new foreign direct or portfolio investment in the Philippines requires the prior approval of the Board of Investments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds from exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U. S. dollars. Most payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the name of nonresidents, whether individual or cor- porate, without prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts are permitted to be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of conversion of, properties (real or personal) located in the Philippines belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. However, with- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the authorities decided to maintain the rate for the U. S. dollar at about-P 6.78. 386 drawals from nonresident accounts for t rans fer abroad are subject to ind iv idual application with supporting evidence, and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Both residents and nonres iden ts may under certain circumstances ma in ta in foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, be low). Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Imports of certain agricultural commodities f rom any source are prohibited for protective reasons. There are no other quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports (o ther th an imports of go ld ); however, payment for imports of specified commodities is subject to prior approval of the Cen tral Bank. Such approval is granted on a case-by-case basis for commodities classified under three consumer goods categories (unclassified, semiun- classified, and nonessential consumer goods) or for com- pletely knocked-down parts for automobile assembly plants. Paymen ts for imports of certain other commodi- ties (wheat, raw cotton, leaf tobacco, and tallow) are permitted only if they are financed through certain offi- cial credit arrangements. Payments for imports of non- agricultural machinery and equipment in excess of US$50,000 a month by importers other than certified export-oriented firms are allowed only if prescribed certification from the Board of Investments (BOI) has been obtained. As a method of payment, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a documents against acceptance (D /A) basis, or under open account (O /A) arrangements. The use of the D/A and O/A procedures is limited mainly to firms with a history of importing under these arrangements prior to February 21, 1970 and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. Unless arrangements for such terms of credit are made, imports in excess of US$100 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment. Imports financed by importers' own foreign exchange or not involving payments from the Philippines (so-called no-dollar imports) are allowed subject to prescribed conditions. Such permissible no-dollar imports are exempt from the requirement of opening letters of credit. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commitments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Central Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only a f ter a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Further- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution more, it is the practice of certain authorized agent banks to require a 100 per cent deposit against the opening of letters of credit, compared with 50 per cent in normal cases. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all paymen ts to Rhodesia are prohibited. In principle, all other payments are permitted, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence regarding the purpose and the amount applied for. However, there are certain limits established by the Central Bank for purchases of for- eign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remit- tances for educational expenses, ma in tenance and expenses of dependents abroad of residents, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and film and other rentals (see be low). Exchange for travel abroad is made available as follows: ( 1) US$25 a day, up to a maximum of US$750 a trip (for exporters an additional representation allowance of US$500) for each person for business or professional travel; (2) US$500 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to A f r ica, North and South America, Australia, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, and New Zealand; and (3) US$200 a year for each adult resident for non- business travel to Guam, Hong Kong, Okinawa, the Republic of China, or any other neighboring country. Foreign travel by Philippine citizens, however, is not normally permitted. The following limits apply to exchange for educa- tional expenses abroad: for studies in the United States, US$250 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tuition, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand, US$200 a month; and for studies in other areas, US$150 a month. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. Remittances for educational expenses and student maintenance abroad are allowed only to stu- dents working for a degree at duly accredited colleges or universities. The following limits apply for remittances to depend- ents of residents: US$250 a month for each dependent living in the United States; US$200 a month for each dependent living in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent liv- ing in other areas. The maintenance allowances for dependents are allowed only for close relatives under certain conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents are permitted in full for invest- ments in resident companies engaged in projects approved by the Board of Investments or in export- oriented industries. Export-oriented firms whose opera- tions include logging are certified as not fully export oriented if log exports exceed 20 per cent of total export earnings. For such firms, net profit remittances PHILIPPINES are allowed to the extent of (a) 100 per cent of the nonresident share in net proceeds pertaining to non- logging operations and (b) 25 per cent of the nonresi- dent share of net profits pertaining to logging opera- tions. For other industries, remittances of profits and dividends in fu ll are also permitted, provided that resident companies either do not avail themselves of domestic credit resources or are controlled by Philip- pine residents. In all other cases, remittances of profits and dividends accruing to nonresidents are allowed up to an amount of 25 per cent of their equity participa- tion (net of taxes). Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trade- marks, and copyrights are permitted up to 50 per cent of the royalties or rentals incurred during the year, provided that the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commodity which is manu- factured locally under the royalty contract. Remittances of the producer's shares of earnings made on motion- picture films and rentals on television films are per- mitted up to 50 per cent of the shares or rentals. Foreign exchange within the above l im i ts may be purchased, without prior approval of the Central Bank, for current payments for invisibles administratively withheld prior to November 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, minus any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic currency, of which not more than P 5 may consist of domestic silver and/or nickel coins. Citizens of the Philippines and permanent resident aliens, when travel- ing abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 400 for first- class ship or plane tickets or P 300 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic staff and Filipino muslims making their first pilgrim- age to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia of petroleum products and mili- tary equipment and supplies are prohibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an author- ized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registration of the exporter's report of foreign sales; reports of foreign 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES sales for copra and coconut oil, however, are approved for registration only by the Central Bank. Banks must sell to the Central Bank 10 per cent of their exchange receipts from export bills. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless collection of the pro- ceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged by the bank. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed currencies within 30 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank within 3 business days of receipt. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, the Republic of China, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodi- ties to Hong Kong require prepayment. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export pro- ceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for their imports of machinery, equipment, raw materials, and other requirements. A stabilization tax is levied on the proceeds from major exports. The rate is 6 per cent for logs, copra, centrifugal sugar, and copper ore and concentrates, and 4 per cent on gold, molasses, coconut oil, dessicated co- conut, iron ore and concentrates, chromite ore and con- centrates, copra meal or cake, unmanufac tured abaca, unmanufac tured tobacco, veneer core and sheets, ply- wood, lumber, canned pineapples, bunker fuel oil, bananas, portland cement, and petroleum pitch and residues. All other commodities whose total f.o.b. export value has not exceeded US$5 million in any calendar year since May 1, 1970 are exempt from this tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days by the recipient to an authorized agent bank. Philippine nationals employed abroad are per- mitted to open U. S. dollar deposit accounts with the Central Bank or authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U. S. dollars they remit to the Philip- pines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts at the Central Bank, earn ings must be transferred through Ph i l ipp ine d ip loma t ic or consular establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances by residents or nonresidents of foreign currencies for 388 deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender requirements, provided that the remittances do not represent current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pur- suant to con trac tual obligations. Balances in such accounts are free ly transferable abroad. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to 9 500 in domestic currency, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coins. Capital All inward and outward capital movements, with the exception of certain transactions related to financing of international trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. Vir- tually all paymen ts and transfers to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. For the purpose of the approval of new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) as well as new foreign borrowings, preference is given to projects approved by the Board of Investments (BOI), export- oriented industries, and other (nonexport-oriented) industries not utilizing domestic credit resources. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct investments, depending upon the category of industry where the investment is made. Investments in BOI-approved industries and in nonexport-oriented industries not utilizing domestic credit resources may be repatriated in five equal annual installments beg inn ing two years after the commence- ment of production. Repatriation of investment in export-oriented industries may start one year after the commencement of production; however, annual install- ments may not exceed net foreign exchange earnings. Investments in all other industries may be repatriated in ten equal installments beg inn ing two years after the commencement of production, if previously approved by and registered with the Central Bank. Commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal international trade transactions. Residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. The ma tur i ty may not be less than 5 years for amounts up to $250,000, not less than 8 years for amounts between $250,000 and $500,000, and not less than 12 years for amounts greater than $500,000. For export industries, amounts exceeding $500,000 are approved if the credit has a ma tur i ty of at least 8 years, inclusive of a 3-year grace period on repayment of principal. Interest rates may not be more than 2 per cent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an industry deemed to be overcrowded, or for firms which are in arrears with government financial institutions. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are per- mitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered with the Central Bank prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to November 26, 1969. For those not fa l l ing under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may repatriate up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The remaining liquid assets may be withdrawn in five years beginning one year from emigration. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in fore ign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to con- tracts or transactions involving assets within the Philip- pines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or cor- poration, and to their exportation or importation. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Under the Investment Incentives Act of 1967, all investors in enterprises registered with the Board of Investments are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are different arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and normally at least 60 per cent of the vo t ing capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" (mainly investments related to the exploitation of export-oriented natural resources and the manu fac tu r ing of import substitutes) must be owned by Philippine nationals. By virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement, U. S. citizens, corporations, and associations are given the same status for this pur- pose as Philippine citizens un t il July 1974. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises in which investment by non-Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act must obtain authority from the Board of Investments in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 30 per cent, permission from the Board must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold must sell their entire output to the Central Bank at the equivalent of US$38 an ounce (calculated at P 3.90 per U. S. dollar) to be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Assistance Act (Republic Act No. 3089, as amended by Republic Act PHILIPPINES No. 6364 of August 5, 1971), irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. However, gold producers who wish to take advantage of the floating exchange rate (the "guiding rate") in lieu of the subsidy must export their gold production, subject to prior licensing by the Central Bank.1 Residents other than the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase gold abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1972 January 7. Monetary Board Resolution No. 47 sub- jected exports of bananas, portland cement, and petro- leum pitch and residues to the stabilization tax. January 21. Executive Order No. 367-A raised im- port duties on a wide range of nonessential, semi- unclassified, and unclassified consumer goods, with effect from February 20, 1972. March 11. Executive Order No. 384 set policy guide- lines with respect to trade with Socialist and communist countries, following a February decision to establish trade relations with such countries. Exports could be effected through either private commercial channels or government trading firms, such as NETRACOR. Import transactions were to be conducted exclusively through NETRACOR. Normal correspondent relations between Philippine banks and those in the countries concerned would be permitted. Clearing arrangements with swing credit arrangements might be adopted on a case-by-case basis when mutually acceptable. These guidelines were communicated to banks by the Central Bank on April 28. March 14. Authorized foreign exchange dealers were instructed to purchase at the guiding rate any exchange offered by foreign tourists. This instruction was recon- firmed on September 13, and again on October 26, when minimum buying rates for checks, travelers checks, notes, and coins were set by the Central Bank. April 4. The Foreign Currency Deposit Act (Repub- lic Act No. 6426) was signed into law (see also April 24, below). April 7. Monetary Board Resolution No. 341 tightened the rules for imports under D/A and O/A arrangements. Eligible for such imports would be: (a) producer firms with a history of regular D/A and O/A imports during 1970; (b) producer firms estab- lished after February 21, 1970 and expressly authorized by the Monetary Board to import end-use requirements under D/A and O/A arrangements during the first year i On January 1, 1973 exports of gold (as a principal p roduc t) became subject to stabilization tax at a rate of 4 per cent. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES of operation; and (c) D/A and O/A imports having left the port of origin as of the date of the resolution. April 7. Circular No. 340, pu rsuant to Monetary Board Resolution No. 629, established new guidelines for fore ign exchange trad ing. It required all interbank foreign exchange transactions to be conducted in the FOREX. Transactions must be made at rates agreed between the buyer and seller banks but kept within 4y2 per cent above or below the guiding rate. The gu id ing rate for the t rad ing day would be posted daily by the Central Bank, and would be the weighted average of all spot exchange rates du r ing the previous day (or the last day when transactions took p lace). April 13. The Central Bank ins truc ted the Philippine National Bank and the Development Bank of the Philip- pines to acqu ire exchange for rice impor ts and for debt servicing, respectively, in the FOREX. Previously, the Central Bank had made direct exchange sales to them for these purposes. April 24. Central Bank Circular No. 343 was issued to implement Republic Act No. 6426, the Foreign Currency Deposit Act. The Act, revoking all legislation inconsistent with any of its provisions, authorized designated Philippine commercial banks and Philippine branches of foreign banks to accept deposits in foreign currencies that were acceptable as part of the country's international reserves, and to accept such foreign cur- rencies in trus t. Banks could issue and discount certifi- cates to evidence such deposits, accept these deposits as collateral for loans, and pay interest in foreign currency on such deposits up to a maximum of 14 per cent per annum. Banks were required to hold 100 per cent foreign currency cover against these deposit liabilities, of which at least 15 per cent must be in the form of a foreign currency deposit with the Central Bank. Cover could also consist of foreign currency loans and short-term foreign currency securi- ties; the former could, subject to Monetary Board guidelines, be extended also to domestic firms, provided these were export oriented or registered with the BOI. Interest on foreign currency deposits was payable in foreign currency and, when earned by nonresidents, exempt from income tax. April 26. The guiding peso-dollar rate, which had been stabilized at P 6.435 = US$1 un t il early April, was again stabilized, at the ruling level of P 6.78 = US$1. April 28. The Central Bank informed banks that the proceeds from exports to communist countries must be obtained in foreign currency acceptable to form part of the international reserves and that the full proceeds must be repatriated within 30 days of ship- ment. June 8. A Central Bank Memorandum to Authorized Agent Banks allowed withdrawals from cash foreign currency time deposits (credited with notes or coins) to be made in currency, notes, or any other transfer 390 instruments, free of any hand l ing charge. Henceforth, however, foreign currency deposits could only be accepted as time deposits, and subject to a m in imum ma tu r i ty of 61 days. The 1 per cent hand l ing charge on cash deposits was forma l ly eliminated. June 19. Central Bank Circular No. 344 authorized security dealers to approve purchases of listed Philip- pine domestic securities by nonresidents or by holders of foreign currency deposits. Such purchases were to be paid for in fore ign exchange. Peso dividends (net of w i thho ld ing taxes) were eligible for deposit to a foreign currency account or for rem i t tance abroad, up to 100 per cent for shares of companies approved by the Board of Investment and up to 25 per cent for shares of other companies. July 1. The rates of stabilization tax were reduced f rom 8 per cent to 6 per cent and f rom 6 per cent to 4 per cent. July 7. Monetary Board Resolution No. 1242 author- ized the maintenance of accounts in Aus t ra l ian dollars, to be funded by local purchases of Au s t ra l ian dollars, in spite of the f a ct that this cu r r en cy was not officially inc luded as acceptable to fo rm pa rt of the country's in te rna t ional reserves. July 7. Central Bank Circular No. 346 amended Circular No. 344. Both the peso and foreign exchange proceeds f rom the sale of Ph i l ipp ine securities to non- residents or to foreign currency depositors became eligi- ble for foreign currency redeposit or for remittance abroad. Where such securities were sold for pesos, however, the amount of pesos to be converted into foreign exchange for redeposit or remittance abroad could not exceed the value of the fore ign currency originally sold. Previously, peso sales proceeds could not be converted into foreign exchange either for redeposit or for remittance abroad. July 28. Monetary Board Resolution No. 1350 eased the rules that had restricted D /A and O /A payments for imports. Imports on these terms now were permitted to producer firms as follows: (a) those with a history of regular D/A and O/A imports as of February 21, 1970; (b) those established after this date and author- ized by the Monetary Board to import end-use require- ments; (c) those without a history of D /A and O /A imports prior to February 21, 1970 but certified by the Central Bank as export oriented, registered with the Board of Investments, or being franchised public utility concerns. Permitted payment terms under D/A and O/A arrangements remained limited to 360 days. All other imports valued at over US$100 remained subject to a letter of credit requirement (letter of credit subject to a 50 per cent ma rg in ). July 28. Monetary Board Resolution No. 1350 per- mitted the Central Bank to engage in swap transactions with authorized banks to cover their foreign exchange liabilities to foreign correspondents when arising from bankers' acceptances covering pre-export financing. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Central Bank would buy spot fo re ign exchange at the day's in t e rb ank rate and sell it fo rwa rd to authorized banks, for periods not exceeding 90 days, at the follow- ing p r em i um rates: 30 days, Vs per cent; 60 days, 1A per cen t; and 90 days, % per cent. July 31. Cen tral Bank C ircu lar No. 343 set the interest rates paid by the Central Bank on fo re ign cur- rency redeposited w i th it by banks authorized to ma in- ta in fore ign currency deposit accounts. Rates ranged f rom 63/4 per cent on 30-60 day deposits to 8% per cent on deposits with a ma tur i ty of over 1 year. August 15. Authorized banks had to refer to the Central Bank, prior to reg is tra t ion, all "reports of fore ign sales" and "export declarations" invo lv ing the export of rice or rice seeds. August 17. A Supreme Court decision ruled that foreign na t iona ls were not permitted to own land in the Philippines unless it had been acquired prior to 1946. October 10. Prior clearance f rom the Oil Industry Commission was required for all applications by oil companies to the Central Bank to purchase exchange for remittances of prof i ts and dividends, repatriation of capital, p aym ent of royalties, managemen t, and other professional or technical fees, and service fees. October 12. Following the imposition of martial law on September 21, Presidential Letter of Instructions No. 25 barred clearance for foreign travel to permanent residents of fore ign na t iona l i ty. October 12. A Central Bank Circular subjected for- eign exchange purchases by oil companies operating in the Philippines to prior approval by the Oil Industry Comm iss ion. Exempt were transactions previously approved by the Central Bank and those which under existing regulations did not require the latter's approval, such as open account imports of supplies and mate- rials. October 14. Presidential Letter of Instructions No. 26 required clearance by the Department of Defense for travel abroad by citizens or foreign nationals. There were certain exemptions, notably for foreign tourists and diplomats. Henceforth, foreign travel by citizens was not normally permitted. October 24. Monetary Board Resolution No. 1982 allowed imports of selected items in the nonessential PHILIPPINES and unclassified consumer goods categories by impor ters w i th a h is to ry of such imports in amoun ts up to 25 per cent of their 1968 level. November 8. A Central Bank Circular newly speci- fied the sources of foreign currency that were not e l ig i- ble for deposit on fore ign currency deposit accounts. Funds f rom the fo l low ing sources became ineligible and had to be sold to any local comme rc ial b a n k: ( 1) for- eign exchange acqu i red f rom au tho r ized agent banks in accordance with ex is t ing regu la t ions, such as excess travel f u n ds or unspent financial assistance for depend- ents abroad; and (2) fore ign exchange acquired f rom any resident person, firm, association, or corpora t ion, whether in payment of legitimate obligations or other- wise. November 29. The Central Bank Act (Repub l ic Act 265) and the General Bank ing Act (Repub l ic Act 337) were amended by Presidential Decrees. December 5. The import of newsprint on a D/A or O /A basis was suspended. December 7. Banks were required to issue "Central Bank off ic ial receipts" for over-the-counter foreign exchange purchases f r om fo re ign tourists and other transient visitors and for the reconversion of their unspent pesos into foreign currencies. December 11. Banks had to refer to the External Debt Management Office of the Central Bank, for prior clearance, all applications for the purchase of foreign exchange and /or the opening of letters of credit by firms engaged in oil exploration and oil drill- ing. December 14. All applications for the import of completely knocked-down automobile packs for assem- bly had to be referred to the Ex ternal Debt Manage- ment Office of the Central Bank for prior clearance. December 19. Exports of cement clinker and Manila hemp became exempt from the stabilization tax. December 22. Monetary Board Resolution No. 2497 made exports of gold (as "principal product") subject to stabilization tax with effect f rom January 1, 1973. The rate of tax was 4 per cent. December 27. Imports under O/A and D/A arrange- ments were required to be registered with, and paid through, the authorized agent bank that issued the corresponding release certificate. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portu- guese Escudo. A central rate of Esc 27.25000 per US$1 has been established, corresponding to Esc 29.5857 = SDR 1, and Portugal avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Portugal observes limits for the U. S. dollar of Esc 26.637 buying, and Esc 27.863 selling, per U. S. dollar. Exchange rates for the other cur- rencies quoted by the Bank of Po r tug a lI are based on the re la t ive exchange rates in the in te rna t ional exchange markets; the Bank of Portugal's quoted rates are for dealings w i th the pub l ic only, and its sales to the commercial banks are made at 0.2 per cent below the quoted rates. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying and selling commissions but there is a tax of 0.15 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. For settlements with coun- tries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agree- ments,2 the U. S. dollar rate applies to transactions in ''agreement dollars" (for Greece, Israel, and Turkey) and the pound sterling rate to transactions in "agree- ment pounds sterling" (for Po land ), while fixed exchange rates apply to other agreement currencies. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange w i th banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange marke t, but they are not expected to solicit such transactions in foreign marke ts and may be required to j u s t i fy the amounts of their sales of escudos to nonresidents. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter in to arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account; their purchases and sales of b i la te ral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Purchases and sales of unquo ted currencies can only be made through an authorized bank ac t ing on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in fo re ign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain shor t- term credits abroad. The banks may use the ir foreign exchange holdings for all au thor ized purposes, but the M in i s t ry of Finance may set limits on their foreign exchange resources and * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, Po r tugal w i th e f fect from February 14 established a new central ra te of Esc 25.50 = US$1, corresponding to 0.0288887 gram of fine gold per escudo or Esc 30.7619 = SDR 1. 1 The quoted currencies are Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish ma rkkaa, French f ranc s, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norweg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Sou th A f r ican rand, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hung a ry, Israel, and Poland. Settlements with Greece and Turkey are also channeled th rough special accounts. 392 in certain circumstances may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal; since December 31, 1971 the net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks have been subject to ceilings and since May 31, 1972 their foreign exchange holdings have been subject to ceilings. Capital held abroad by residents in the form of foreign exchange that is not subject to surrender requirements may be transferred to other residents through authorized commercial banks at official rates of exchange. Decree-Law No. 44699 of 1963 fo rb ids direct transactions in foreign exchange between resi- dents who are private persons. There is no forward exchange ma rke t, but authorized banks may enter into forward transac t ions w i th ind i- vidual customers: the exchange rates may not be higher than the spot buy ing rate or lower than the spot selling rate of the same date, but the size of the com- mission is not prescribed. The commercial banks may cover open positions by entering into swap t ransac t ions with the Bank of Portugal. The escudos issued in the overseas territories are at par w i th the metropolitan escudo. The parity for the Macao pataca is Esc 4.75 = pataca 1. Interterritorial payments are subject to transfer charges collected by the credit institutions concerned which may not exceed 0.6 per cent; this l im it is 0.3 per cent for payments resu l t ing from transactions in foreign currencies and settled through another overseas te r r i to ry or through metropolitan Portugal. In te r te r r i to r ial paymen ts are also subject to a service charge of l/> of 1 per cent in favor of the Exchange Fund of the overseas province con- cerned; 3 for paymen ts between two overseas provinces this charge is divided between the two Exchange Funds concerned. In add i t ion, Interterritorial paymen ts wh ich require the direct in terven t ion of the Bank of Portugal as agent of either the interterritorial clearing system or the territorial payments system are subject to a service charge of 0.15 per cent payable to the Bank of Portugal. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territories (Angola, Cape Verde Islands, Macao, Mozambique, Portuguese Guinea, Principe, Sao Tome, and T imor) constitute a single exchange control territory, the Por- tuguese Monetary Area or Escudo Area. Within the Escudo Area, interterritorial paymen ts are subject to exchange control (except in Macao); they may be made directly through commerc ial banks or channe led th rough special accounts m a in t a in ed by the Bank of Portugal (which is reserve bank of the Escudo Area, agent of the clearing system, and agent of the Mone tary Fund 3 For Macao, which has no Exchange Fund, the Banco Nacional U l t rama r ino is the bank of issue. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the Area) and the Exchange Funds of the individual overseas territories (either under the interterritorial payments system or the interterritorial clearing system). Decree-Law No. 41,403 of November 1957 and Decree-Law No. 44,016 of November 1961 provide that the foreign exchange regulations of metropolitan Portugal shall be applied in the overseas territories, subject to any local adjustments that may be neces- sary. Current payments from metropolitan Portugal to the overseas territories are in principle unrestricted, as are current payments to metropolitan Portugal from most of the overseas territories. In Angola and Mozam- bique, however, transactions involving payments to metropolitan Portugal as well as to foreign countries are subject at present to a system of priorities. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Commis- sion of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Econ- omy. A Directorate-General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy administers the trade controls; import and export licenses ("bulletins") are issued by the Foreign Trade Division, operating within the office of the Directorate-General, or by other executive departments duly authorized. Licenses for imports of certain goods included in the negative list are issued by the economic coordination departments within the Ministry of Economy. Practically all foreign trade trans- actions are subject to registration with the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Por- tugal (see footnote 1), or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Transactions with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2) are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U. S. dollars (for Greece, Israel, and Turkey), in pounds sterling ( for Po land ), or in escudos or the currency of the pa r tner country (for Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, and Hunga ry ). In exceptional cases, pay- ments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Payments between the overseas territories and foreign countries may be made either direct through the authorized banks of the territories concerned, or by means of the interterritorial clearing system, through metropolitan Portugal or another over- seas territory. Within the Escudo Area, payments to PORTUGAL metropolitan Portugal must be made in metropolitan escudos, while payments to the overseas territories may be made either in metropolitan escudos or in the cur- rency of the creditor country. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are described below. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos," for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly author- ized in that currency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries,4 (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal,5 (c) purchases or sales of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal against escudos, and (d) transfers between these accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the above accounts requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal and for amounts exceeding Esc 50 million with a maturity exceeding one year the approval of the Ministry of Finance is also required. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per- sons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrange- ments: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Por- tugal. There are also provisions for resident and nonresi- dent accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, m a in ly for reasons of health, public order, and the preven t ion of trade frauds. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer; importers must be certified by the Cor- poration of Commerce and must pay income taxes regularly. Most imports consigned f rom and o r ig ina t ing in the Portuguese overseas territories are free of restric- 4 However, the intent of the monetary directives in force is to exclude the escudo f rom payments to nonresidents, and the Bank of Portugal authorizes such paymen ts in escudos on ly in exceptional cases. 5 Sales of escudos are subject to the proviso that the commercial bank concerned may be required to inform the Bank of Portugal of the nature of the transaction for which escudos are required. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL tion. A registration procedure is applied, however, for payment control purposes, and certificates of origin are required to ensure that goods o r ig ina t ing in foreign countries do not en ter Portugal via overseas territories. Cer ta in products, such as cotton and some oilseed products, may be imported freely f rom the Portuguese overseas territories a f ter local indus tr ial demand has been satisfied, but are subject to quantitative restric- tions when imported f rom third countries. Special regu- lations are applied to sugar; imports f rom foreign coun- tries take place only if supplies from overseas territories are insufficient. Almost all imports f rom outside the Portuguese Mone tary Area are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quan t i ta t ive restriction, the bulletin serves a s ta t is t ical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equ iva lent to an import license. The validity of the bulletin is normally 90 days, but extensions are often granted. Payments for imports already cleared through customs require the approval of the Bank of Portugal when made a f ter the validity of the bulle- tin. Payments beyond one year after customs clearance always require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported freely f rom most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain food- stuffs, other agricultural products, certain natural or manufac tured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the negative list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana, India, and Nigeria; imports f rom these GATT members of goods liberalized if imported from other GATT countries are subject to individual authori- zation, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports f rom countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authorization. All imports f rom countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations; imports from Eastern European countries are generally licensed restrictively or in accordance with bilateral agreements. There are bilateral quotas for specified agricultural imports from certain EFTA countries. Imports of non- liberalized industrial products, except for certain pro- tected steel products and automobiles, are free of quantitative restriction when originating in EFTA coun- tries. Special legislation provides that automobiles must be assembled in Portugal. Imports of passenger cars are allowed up to 75 units (for EFTA countries 150 units) a year for each producer,6 while imports of 6 With effect from January 1, 1973, the regime for imports from non-EFTA countries was modified. Imports of fu l ly assembled passenger automobiles of non-EFTA origin were limited to 15 units 394 commercial vehicles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Imports of completely knocked-down vehi- cles from EFTA countries are free of restrictions, and allocations for imports f rom other GATT coun tr ies are available under special open licenses, subject to the use of certain m in imum percentages of domestic com- ponents. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for cu r rent invisibles may be made f ree ly through autho- rized banks. Such paymen ts to fo re ign coun t r ies are also generally free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions, but for most transactions ceilings are specified for amoun ts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. For payments to coun tr ies w i th which Po r tugal does not have bilateral paymen ts agreements, the authorized banks may grant any amount of fore ign exchange for expenditures inc iden tal to trade; up to the equ iva lent of Esc 50,000 a person a year for tou r i sm; 7 and up to the equivalent of Esc 100,000 for most transac t ions in invisibles not mentioned above, inc lud ing income on imported capital. For paymen ts to countries w i th which Portugal has b i la te ral paymen ts agreemen ts, the autho- rized banks may effect freely paymen ts for invisibles listed in the respective paymen ts agreements. Applica- tion must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for paymen ts in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign banknotes and foreign coins for their travel expenses; exports of notes and coins for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bu l le t ins). Export bulletins for exports to Angola and Mozamb ique are issued only on evidence that the importer has already obtained an import bulletin. For exports to other over- seas provinces and to foreign countries, export bu l le t ins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the pr imary pur- pose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few domestically produced goods is restricted, ma in ly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of merchandise whose va lue does not exceed Esc 2,500 do not require a bu l le t in as long as they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, for each producer per year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, to 2 per cent of the number of automobiles of the same make that were assembled in Portugal in the preceding year. 7 Upon verification of the genuineness of the transac t ion, the Bank of Portugal authorizes the equivalent of Esc 20,125 a person a trip. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution w i th in the period s t ipu la ted in the export bu l le t in, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the fore ign cur- rency indicated in the bu l le t in, if payment is not received from a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos. The Bank of Po r tugal may, however, authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges p e r t a in ing to exports, from the to tal am o u nt of the export proceeds subject to sur- render. Proceeds from Invisibles Por tuguese residents may receive f ree ly paymen ts for inv is ib les from residents of countries with which Por- tugal does not have b i la teral paymen ts agreements. Also, paymen ts f rom res iden ts of countries with which Por tugal does have paymen ts agreements may be received f ree ly for inv is ib les listed in the payments agreements. Rece ip ts on account of all other inv is ib les require au tho r iza t ion by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted w i thout restriction once the proposed operation proves to be real and l ic i t. Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may b r i ng in f ree ly domestic and foreign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coins for other purposes require authorization f rom the Bank of Por tuga l. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay out domestic or foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of external trans- actions. Capital Capital transfers between Portugal and its overseas territories are subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal; approval is also required from the authori- ties of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance and of the Minister of Overseas Territories is required. For most types of transactions, however, authorization to export from Portugal (and to import into the overseas territory) is granted freely whenever the transaction is found to be a bona fide one. With the exception of certain personal imports and exports of capital up to Esc 100,000, all capital move- ments between Portugal and other countries require prior approval by the Bank of Portugal; for transactions in excess of Esc 50 million whose maturity exceeds one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. Foreign investments in Portugal by residents of coun- tries that are members of or associated w i th the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD are authorized freely if they involve activities that are of recognized interest for Por- tugal's development and provided that no speculative operation in real estate is involved. Certain activities, however, are reserved for enterprises having a majority of Portuguese capital; these include defense, public utilities, oil ref in ing, and fishing. Furthermore, Decree PORTUGAL No. 393 /70 specifies cer ta in indus t r ies in wh ich any domestic or fo re ign inves tment is sub ject to prior au thor iza t ion. The t ran s fer abroad of the f u ll proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of foreign inves tment which origi- nated in a bona fide inwa rd capital movement f rom OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD coun tr ies is authorized w i thout restriction. Foreign credits from OECD coun t r ies w i th a m a tu r i ty of up to five years are liberalized when a Portuguese resident participates in the unde r ly ing commercial or service transac t ion. The acceptance of other fore ign credits is no rma l ly pe rm i t ted. The repayment of foreign credits and loans th at or ig ina ted in a bona fide inward capital movement is always authorized. Inves tmen ts outside the Portuguese Monetary Area by residents of Portugal are authorized on ly when the capital involved is not considered ind ispensab le for the na t ional economic deve lopmen t. In practice, au thor iza- tion is gran ted on ly for small investments and for the improvement or enlargement of ex is t ing Portuguese investments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, w i th in t ime limits fixed by the au thor i t ies, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD coun t ry. They may also transfer such proceeds to other residents, provided that the proceeds do not belong to a Portu- guese credit institution and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an ins t i tu t ion. Arbitrage operations in foreign securities carried out by residents of Portugal involving two other OECD coun- tries or between Portugal and an OECD country are authorized freely; but if a transfer of foreign exchange to or from Portugal is involved, a prior authorization is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by foreigners resident in Portugal who em igra te to any other OECD country are authorized au toma t ica l ly up to Esc 100,000 annua l ly for a fam i ly and larger amounts may be granted on the merits of the case. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been resident in Portugal are authorized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a fam i ly when they return to their country of origin. Transfers on account of fam i ly loans, bequests, inheritances, and dowries to other OECD countries are usually authorized automatically up to Esc 500,000; for higher amounts, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. For bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resident of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an OECD coun try at the time of death. G i f ts to relatives resident in OECD coun- tries are authorized when their value does not exceed Esc 28,750 a year. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of life insur- ance policies due from Portuguese insurers are author- ized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a capital sum, a reduced value, or an annu i ty certain, and Esc 50,000 for a sur- render value. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Capital movements and transfers of assets in excess of the limits mentioned, or not enumerated in the pre- ceding paragraphs, or involving countries other than those mentioned above, are authorized on the merits of each case. The net foreign asset positions of authorized banks must not exceed 5 per cent of their current liabilities in domestic currency. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Portugal, and there is a free gold market. The purchase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of metropolitan Por- tugal takes part in the transaction or has an interest in it. The import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance autho- rization f rom the Bank of Portugal. Licensing of imports is relatively liberal but import authorizations for indus- trial gold are granted only to commercial banks and the Association of Industrial Users of Gold. Domestic sales of gold and of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to a transaction tax of 20 per cent. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in the Portuguese Monetary Area may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U. S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1972 During the year, the system of priorities for outward payments and imports, the introduction of which in Angola and Mozambique was provided for by legisla- tion enacted in December 1971, was fur ther elaborated. In each of these territories a foreign exchange budget was adopted; in principle, these budgets did not dis- tinguish between Portuguese territories and foreign countries. February 12. Mozambique published priorities estab- lished by a decision of the same date for imports, cur- rent transactions in invisibles, and private capital trans- actions. For certain first-priority imports (equipment for production or development), minimum supplier credit terms of three years were prescribed. (Similar priorities had been established in Angola on Novem- ber 6, 1971 by Decree-Law No. 478/71 and were pub- lished on January 20, 1972.) March 31. Portugal ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. On April 1 a new trade agreement with Japan came into force. April 24. A ministerial order specified the conditions for the granting of guarantees (avales) for export credits and prefinancing, under the terms of Decree-Law No. 47908 of September 7, 1967. May 12. Decree-Law No. 157/72 was published, which modified the existing regulations concerning imports of passenger automobiles of non-EFTA origin with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1973. May 20. Decree No. 173/72 introduced regulations (implementing Decree-Law No. 478/71 of Novem- ber 6, 1971) with regard to payments and exchange operations in and between Portuguese overseas terri- tories. (In Metropolitan Portugal, corresponding imple- menting regulations had been introduced by Decree-Law No. 550/71 of December 15, 1971.) May 31. Limits were imposed on the foreign cur- rency balances held by authorized banks. June 6. Private capital import and export transactions in continental Portugal and the adjacent islands, when corresponding to certain personal capital movements and not exceeding Esc 100,000, were exempted f rom special prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. July 22. A free trade agreement with the EEC was signed, to come into effect on January 1, 1973. July 24. The Export Promotion Office of the Ministry for Economic Affairs was authorized to grant exporters in Metropolitan Portugal, Madeira, and the Azores a 180-day exchange rate guarantee. The premium was set at % of 1 per cent for claims in foreign currencies with fixed exchange rates and 1A of 1 per cent for those in currencies with a floating exchange rate. Excluded from cover were exchange rate variations of up to 1 per cent under the rate prevailing on the date of the export contract. Cover for periods in excess of 180 days could be granted for capital goods and for contracts of Portuguese consulting engineers. 396 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR1 Exchange Rate System * Qatar shares with D u b a i2 a common currency, the Qatar/Dubai Riyal, which is defined as equivalent to 0.186621 gram of fine gold. No par value has been established. The Qa tar /Dubai Currency Board buys and sells sterling at no more than Vi of 1 per cent either side of the middle rate for sterling based on the current London market rate for the U. S. dollar; on December 31, 1972, the buying and selling rates for sterling were QDR 10.3502 and QDR 10.2472 per <£ stg. 1, respectively. The commercial banks' exchange rates for currencies other than sterling are based on Qatar's rates for sterling and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against sterling. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in Qatar. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Petroleum. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force, but in practice pay- ments to and from Sterling Area countries usually are made in Sterling Area currencies. Qatar is a member of the Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and alcoholic beverages, firearms, am- mun i t ion, and certain drugs are subject to licensing requirements for reasons of health, morals, and security. Otherwise, imports into Qatar are not restricted. Only Qatar nationals are allowed to engage in import busi- ness. There are no restrictions on payments for per- mitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be * Fo l low ing the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 th at the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the gold con tent of the Qa ta r /Dubai r iyal was m a i n t a i n ed un ch ang ed. 1 Qatar became a member of the In te rna t ional Mon e t a ry Fund on September 8, 1972. 2 Dubai is a con s t i tuent member of the Un i ted A rab Emirates. repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments must not be made to or received f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Otherwise there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds f rom invisibles. Banks are required to obtain permission from the Ministry of Finance and Petroleum for all remit- tances in excess of QDR 50,000. The Ministry's ap- proval is also required for transfers outside the Sterling Area for educational expenses in excess of QDR 35,000 a person a year and for travel expenses outside the Sterling Area in excess of QDR 3,500 a person a trip; all bona fide applications are approved. Capital Banks are required to obtain permission f rom the Ministry of Finance for all remittances in excess of QDR 50,000. No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, although payments must not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. There are, however, certain restrictions on foreign direct investment in the industrial and banking sectors. Decree-Law No. 4 (March 1970) stipulates that no foreign bank entering business in Qatar after January 1970 shall have more than one branch in Qatar and that all foreign bank branches shall make available QDR 5 million to be deposited without interest with the Qatar National Bank. The law also requires every foreign bank branch to invest at least 50 per cent of its deposits in Qatar. Foreign participation in certain industrial enterprises is prohibited unless Qataris con- trol at least a majority of the shares. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and w i thout payment of customs duties or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions in- volving Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are, how- ever, prohibited. Changes during 1972 February 22. The Government instructed banks to obtain the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance and Petroleum for noncommercial remittances in excess of QDR 50,000, irrespective of the destination of the payment. June 23. Qatar ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR June 23. The gold value of the Q a t a r /Dub ai riyal was maintained and the currency was unpegged f rom sterling, the pa r i ty relationship for wh ich had been QDR 1 = £ stg. 0.0875. The Cu r rency Board hence- fo r th quoted da i ly b u y i ng and selling rates for sterling based on the middle ra te for sterling against the U. S. do l lar in the London marke t. The margin between the buy ing and selling rates of the Cu r rency Board was increased f rom l/2 per cent to 1 per cent. The effective par i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dollar remained un- changed at QDR 1 = US$0.2284590. 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 1 Exchange Rate System * No par va lue for the Roman ian Leu has been estab- lished with the Fund. The leu is officially defined as equ iva lent to 0.148112 gram of fine gold, yielding offi- cial rates as at December 31, 1972 of lei 5.53 per U. S. dollar (lei 6 per SDR) and lei 6.67 per ruble. There is no exchange marke t. The Na t ional Bank of Roman ia quotes rates also for certain other currencies; quotations are based on the gold definition for the leu and the par va lues or official rates of the currencies concerned. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and t ranspo r ta t ion connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. Some non trade transactions are carried out at the official rate plus a prem ium of 189.33 per cent, resu l t ing in a rate of lei 16 per US$1. For non trade transac t ions with some socialist coun t r ie s2 exchange rates are established by special agreements. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by authorized industrial cen- trals, producing enterprises, and foreign trade enter- prises, and are subject to import and export licenses granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. In the issuing of licenses, the provisions of the foreign trade plan and of existing trade agreements are taken into account. Foreign currency proceeds f rom exports are sold to the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from that Bank. Exchange control is administered by the National Bank and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom countries with which Romania has bilateral paymen ts agreements are made in cur- rencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei, and the * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Romania maintained the official rate of the leu unchanged in terms of gold. The official rate for the U. S. dollar became lei 4.97 and the rate applicable to certain noncommercial settlements was changed to lei 14.38. 1 Romania became a member of the International Monetary Fund on December 15, 1972. 2 Defined by Romania as "Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, D. R. of Germany, Hungary, P. R. of China, Mongolia, D. P. R. of Korea, D. R. of Viet-Nam, Poland, and U. S. S. R." 3 As of December 31, 1972, bilateral payments arrangements were in force with the socialist countries mentioned in footnote 2, with Cuba and Yugoslavia, and with Algeria, Austria, Bangladesh, Brazil, Colom- bia, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, India, Iran, Lebanon, Mali, Pakistan, Spain, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Turkey. Furthermore, certain settlements with Singapore also took place through special accounts. Settlements with Spain took place in convertible currencies with effect from January 1, 1973. import and export in any form of Romanian notes and coins are prohibited. Imports and Exports Import and export plans are drawn up by the pro- ducing enterprises. On the basis of these plans, the fore ign trade plan for the national economy as a whole specifies the main import and export products indi- vidually and establishes global quotas for other groups of products and for unspecified items. The foreign trade plan is not divided by countries but, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts, it distinguishes between the clearing area and the convertible currency area. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. However, there is an incentive sys- tem for enterprises which receive more foreign exchange than anticipated. In such cases the exporting enter- prises may either retain the surplus foreign exchange in excess of the quota due or convert the full amount of the actual foreign exchange receipts into lei and receive a premium in lei. In the former case, the enter- prise has the right either to utilize the surplus foreign exchange to make additional imports, or to keep the amount concerned with the Bank in an interest-bearing account. Both the conversion and the reconversion are carried out at the official rate. The foreign exchange surplus may be used only for imports. If the surplus foreign exchange earnings are in a convertible currency, the exporting enterprise may convert the amount con- cerned into any convertible currency. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with for- eign trade transactions require general or individual authorization given by the Ministry of Finance. For most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside socialist countries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult person for one trip a year. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei in amounts the equivalent of which may exceed the maxi- mum allocations of foreign exchange. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. Receipts in foreign cur- rencies f rom travelers are converted at lei 16 per US$1. The import and export of Romanian notes and coins by travelers is prohibited. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Out- 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA ward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permitted. For certain estab- lished categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agree- ments have been concluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. A new Foreign Trade Law (Law No. 1 of March 1971) provides for the possibility of the establishment of joint ventures abroad by Romanian economic organizations; foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in joint ventures in Romania, up to 49 per cent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Law guarantees the repatria- tion in foreign currency of the capital and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agree- ment the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Foreign physical and juridical persons may keep in bank accounts in Romania their legally owned foreign currency or lei funds; balances in foreign exchange accounts are transferable abroad. Romanian nationals working abroad may hold their foreign currency savings in accounts opened with Romanian banks and use these funds for payments in Romania or abroad. Gold Only the National Bank of the Socialist Republic of Romania has authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in turn, author- izes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions, in accordance with the law. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold, is not restricted. Changes during 1972 June 16. The bilateral payments agreements with Iceland was terminated. August 4. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was concluded with Bangladesh. The agreement came into force immediately. December 31. The bilateral payments arrangements with Spain were terminated. Settlements henceforth took place in convertible currencies. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc, corresponding to RF 100 = SDR 1 or RF 92.1053 = US$1, and Rwanda avails itself of wider margins. The National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) has established fixed buy ing and selling rates for banks for the U. S. dollar and for certain other cur- rencies; * those for the U. S. dollar are RF 92.11 buying and RF 94.18 selling. The authorized banks, acting for the account of the National Bank, must deal at or within these rates with the pub l ic but are permitted to charge a fee of RWANDA imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages ( a f t er income tax and a f ter deduction ot RF 25,000 a mon th) of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or are engaged in a profession or established as inde- pendent traders; and for salaries of fore igners traveling abroad on leave. Paymen ts in respect of transport charges on imports and exports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs or after the exchange proceeds from exports have been surrendered. Net profits and dividends due to non- residents may in principle be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their t rans fer in installments. Nonresidents may transfer their net income f rom rents ( a f t er deduction of taxes and a provision of 20 per cent for ma in tenance ), and residents of foreign nationality may remit two thirds of such net income; the National Bank, however, may limit the amounts so transferable. Residents may freely purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs, with the exception that the prior approval of the central bank may be required when certain travel by persons of foreign nationality is involved. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel pur- poses are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Non- resident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, baggage and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of For- eign Exchange (Model E ). Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank, for certification. A Declaration is valid for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, payment must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days, except for min- erals shipped abroad for refining, for which the period is 180 days. All exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. 402 Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles of RF 5,000 or more must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days f rom their collection. All claims must be col- lected w i th in 30 days f rom the date on which they become payable. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic bankno tes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Na t ional Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the t ran s fer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law of May 4, 1964 or to the personal effects of a foreign national re turn ing to his own coun try. Re transfer guar- antees as well as an exchange rate guaran tee may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months; such inflows result ma in ly f rom swap trans- actions between Rwandese banks and their foreign cor- respondents. Commercial banks are not permitted to import or export domestic banknotes. Gold Residents may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in Rwanda for numismatic purposes only. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1972 January 3. The National Bank levied a license valida- tion fee (droit de validation) at the time of issuing import licenses. The fee was 4 per cent of the amount of the license for certain luxury goods and 2 per cent for all other commodities. January 3. An advance deposit of 50 per cent was required for imports of the luxury goods that were subject to the 4 per cent validation fee. January 14. Communication Rt. I /No. 29 provided that all paymen ts abroad had to be effected in the cur- rency of the license validation, unless the license itself provided otherwise. Furthermore, all payments abroad other than import payments or payments for expenses related to imports required the submission of an appli- cation for a transfer authorization (Model A) and henceforth had to be effected by bank transfer. January 17. Communication Rt. I /No. 30 changed the prescription of currency rules. The U. S. dollar could be used for all payments and receipts, with the exception that payments to Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda had to be made in the currency of the country concerned. The Belgian franc could be used for all ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transactions w i th Bu rund i, Zaire, and any European coun try. Paymen ts from all coun tr ies could be received in Belgian f r an c s, deu tsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Ne ther- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, and U. S. do l la rs; in addition, proceeds f rom exports to Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda could also be received in the cu r rency of the coun t ry concerned. February 3. Commun ica t ion Rt. I /No. 31 amended Commun ica t ion Rt. I /N o. 30 to prescribe that pay- ments to B u r u n di must be effected in Bu rundi francs. These paymen ts were channeled th rough the central banks. April 11. Commun ica t ion Rt. I I /No. 26 exempted from the exchange control charge of H/i per mill that banks are permitted to levy, for the ir own account, on purchases and sales of foreign exchange and on debits and credits to Foreign Accounts in Transferab le Rwanda Francs, t ran sac t ions between the N a t ion al Bank and the au thor ized banks and certain other transac t ions (ma in ly those unde r taken on behalf of the public sector and foreign gov e rnm en t s ). The same commun ica t ion introduced a validation fee (droit de dossier) on import and export licenses, at RF 350 a license ( for luxu ry items of Group B the fee was 1 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue, sub ject to a m in imum of RF 350 and a m ax imum of RF 5,000). A validation fee of 2 per cent of the va lue of the amount authorized RWANDA was levied on au tho r iza t ions to make paymen ts abroad (Model A) other th an for imports (RF 350 for Model A au tho r iza t ions in respect of swap t ransac t ions ). Exempt f rom these va l ida t ion fees payab le to the Na t ional Bank were the Gove rnment and the pa ra - s ta tal organ iza t ions. April 11. Commun ica t ion Rt. I I /N o. 26 specified the luxu ry commod i t ies subject to advance import deposit requ i rement of 50 per cen t. These goods, referred to as Group B, inc luded coffee, cigars, cigarettes, tobacco, came ras, records, and alcoholic beverages, as well as any other goods to be de term ined by the Na t ional B ank. Banks were proh ib i ted f rom ex tend ing credit to f inance the advance deposit. April 25. A s ta t is t ical tax of 3 per cent (p rev iou s ly Mo of 1 per cen t) ad valorem was levied on all du t iab le impor ts. It replaced the va l ida t ion fee of 2 per cent or 4 per cent on import licenses that had been introduced in J a n u a ry 1972. June 15. Commun ica t ion Rt. I /N o. 32 eased the restrictions on the pu rchase in Rw anda f rancs of air travel tickets by fore ign na t iona l s. October 18. Commun ica t ion Rt. I /N o. 33 proh ib i ted all exchange transac t ions and t rade transac t ions with South A f r ica, Por tuga l, and Rhodesia. Previously, a similar proh ib i t ion existed for most transactions w i th Portugal and Rhodesia. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System* The par value is 0.197482 gram of fine gold per Saudi Arabian Riyal or SR ls 4.50 = SDR 1, corre- sponding to SRls 4.14475 = US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency has announced a dollar-riyal parity of SR ls 4.145 per U. S. dollar; it sells U. S. dollars to banks at SR ls 4.15 per US$1 and buys at SRls 4.14 per US$1; these rates serve as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited; there are no other restrictions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health or security. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U.S. dollar was being devalued, Saudi Arab ia ma in ta ined the par va lue of its currency unchanged. New official buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were set at SRls 3.725 and SRls 3.735, respectively. exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian banknotes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica. The Foreign Capital Investment Law (Royal Decree No. 35 of February 24, 1964) provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any fo rm. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Changes during 1972 January 3. Import duties on many consumer goods and certain other items were abolished or greatly reduced. 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Exchange System * No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official ex- change market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other current transactions, as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. All other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the BCEAO, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. The principal current payments and receipts channeled through the financial franc market are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' re- mittances. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 = US$1. With the exception of those relating to gold, Senegal's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Senegal itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dol- lar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. The rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was also maintained on March 19, 1973 when new exchange rate ar- rangements between the French f ranc and certain other currencies came into effect. "The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance and Investment Division in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal, inward direct investment, and all outward investments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (Directorate of For- eign Trade), including those for gold. Import certifi- cates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself. Prescription of Currency Senegal is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements with Guinea are made through bilateral accounts estab- lished under a payments agreement.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or Financial Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by authorized banks' foreign correspondents; such bank- notes may be credited to Financial Accounts opened by the latter with authorized banks in Senegal. 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Mali. The agree- ment account was closed on September 30, 1970. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of Po r tuguese, Rhodes ian, and South A f r i c an o r ig in a n d / or p rovenance a re proh ib i ted from any source, and the impo rt of ce r ta in other goods is pro- hibited f r om all coun t r ies except member states of the West A f r ican Cus toms Un ion. The impo rt f rom any source of a n um b er of other commod i t ies is subject to ind iv idu al l icens ing. Impo r ts f r om coun t r ies in the French Franc Area o ther than Ma li are gene ra l ly f ree of license and qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ion; some goods, a l though free f rom import license, requ i re p r ior au tho r- ization by the M i n i s t ry of Finance and Economic A f f a i r s. Impo r ts of v i r t u a l ly all goods f rom EEC countries and impo r ts of some goods f rom fo rmer OEEC coun tr ies, the Un i ted States, and Canada are f ree of qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ions; such liberalized impo r ts requ i re on ly an impo rt cer t if ica te made out by the impor ter h imse l f. There is an a n n u al p rog ram w i th global quo tas for impo r ts f rom a ll non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The impo rt p rog ram is put in to effect th rough i n d i v i d u al licenses, which are requ ired for most commodities. Licenses are issued on ly to authorized traders and to indu s t r i al and ag r icu l tu ral producers. A ll impo rt t ransac t ions re la t ing to fore ign coun t r ies must be domiciled with an au thor ized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 (c . i . f. or delivered at the bo rde r ). The impo rt licenses or import certificates entitle impor ters to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before sh ipment if a documen tary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported (if no documen ta ry credit has been opened, on presentation of the b i ll of l a d i n g ). Fur thermore, payments for imports va lued at CFAF 500,000 or less ( b ut over CFAF 15,000) cannot be made prior to customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts to Po r tug a l, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Paymen ts for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the o ther Operations Account countries in the French F ranc Area are perm i t ted f r e e ly; those to other coun tr ies are sub ject to app rova l. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted f ree ly when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not requ ire au tho r iza t ion. Fu r the rmo re, authorized banks have been empowered to effect freely any pay- ment abroad up to CFAF 15,000 on behalf of resi- dents. T rans fe rs of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of p ro f i ts, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tour ist trave l, residents trave l ing to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may ob ta in an exchange allocation of an amount equiv- a l e nt to CFAF 150,000 a year for each person (CFAF 75,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign 406 exchange rema in ing a f ter re turn to Senegal must be su r rende red. Applications for additional amoun ts of fo re ign exchange may also be approved. For business travel, there is a special a l loca t ion of the equ iva lent of CFAF 7,500 a day, subject to a m ax imum of CFAF 150,000 a person a tr ip, but not more t h an the equiva- lent of CFAF 15,000 may be taken out in fore ign notes. The t r an s f er of the f u ll net salary of a fore igner work- ing in Senegal is perm i t ted upon presen ta t ion of the appropr ia te pay voucher, provided that the t r an s f er takes place w i t h in three mon ths of the pay period. Resident and nonres ident travelers going to foreign countries may take out, in add i t ion to any foreign exchange allo- ca t ion, up to CFAF 15,000 in BCEAO bankno tes, French bankno tes, and bankno tes issued by other Oper- ations Account coun tr ies. Travelers to other coun tr ies may take out any am o u nt in BCEAO bankno tes, but if the coun t ry of des t ina t ion is not a member coun t ry of the West A f r i c an Mone ta ry Un ion, they must declare the amount taken out to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Non res ident t rave le rs may take out fo re ign bankno tes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en t ry (m inus the amount converted in Senegal p lus any amount up to CFAF 50,000 reconverted by purchase of fo re ign b a n k n o t e s ), or if no dec lara t ion has been made, up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000; other bankno tes as stated above; and any means of payment established abroad in their name, such as travelers checks. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Po r tuga l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, dia- monds, t u n n y ), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, ma in ly in order to assure ade- quate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal and to prevent certain re-exports. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Opera- tions Account coun try must in p r inc ip le be collected within 120 days of the a r r ival of the goods at their destination and surrendered not later than two mon ths af ter collection. All export t ransac t ions re la t ing to for- eign coun tr ies must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in inv is ib les w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom fo re ign assets must be collected, and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, w i th in two mon ths of the due da te or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fo re ign banknotes and coins (except gold co ins) of coun tr ies outside the French Franc A rea; residents b r ing ing in foreign banknotes must declare them to the customs upon en t ry and sell them to an au thor ized bank w i th in eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and Po r tuga l, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are f ree of exchange control; cap i tal trans- fers to all other coun tr ies require exchange control approval but cap i tal receipts f rom such coun tr ies are perm i t ted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over bo r row ing abroad, over inward direct inves tment and all ou tward inves tmen t, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Senegal; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves not to paymen ts or receipts. With the exception of those over fore ign securities, these control measures do not app ly to re la t ions w i th France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the A f a rs and the Issas ), Monaco, the other member coun tr ies of the West A f r ican Mone ta ry Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over impor ts and exports of gold, over the soliciting of f u n ds for deposit with foreign pr iva te persons and foreign firms and in- s t i tu t ions, and over all pub l ic i ty aimed at placing f u n ds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building opera- tions abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs .3 Foreign direct investments in Senega l4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before such inves tmen ts are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or fore ign in- vestments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economic Affa irs within 20 days follow- ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enter- 3 Including inves tmen ts made through the intermediary of fore ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- pan ies in Senegal. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Senegal that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under fore ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. SENEGAL prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct in- vestment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quo ted on a stock exchange. The issu ing, adve r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fo r- eign securities in Senegal requ ires p r ior au tho r i z a t ion by the Minister of Finance and Economic A f f a i r s. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gu a r an t ee f rom the Senegalese Gove rnment and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, o f f e r ing, or sale in Senegal has prev ious ly been au thor ized. Borrowing by residents f rom non re s iden ts requ i res prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of F inance and Economic A f fa i r s. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans con s t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, which are subject to prior dec la ra t ion, as indicated above; (2) loans con trac ted by authorized bank s; ( 3) loans other th an those men t ioned above, subject to certain cond i t ions, when the to tal amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrow- ing, does not exceed CFAF 40 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tment requ ires the special au tho r iza t ion of the M in is ter if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f r om special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Ex ternal Finance and Inves tment Division. The Inves tment Code of J u ne 12, 1972 (Law No. 72 -43 ), provides var ious facilities and benefits for ap- proved fore ign investments in Senegal. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun try requ ire prior author- ization by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affa irs. Exempt from this requ irement are ( 1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. By v ir tue of Ordinance No. 60-21 of October 1, 1960, brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub ject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmone ta ry gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior au tho r iza t ion (Decree No. 65-794 of November 19, 1965). Fu r the r- moire, imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Senegal Office for Hand icraf ts (Office Senegalais de 1'Artisanat) and the Directorate of Mines and Geology (Notice to Importers of May 17, 1971). 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Changes during 1972 February I. Circular No. 278 of November 22, 1971 came into effect, which abolished the foreign exchange booklet previously obligatory for travel to foreign countries. Instead, the submission of an attestation was prescribed. May 20. Decree No. 72-481 of April 24, 1972 made imports f rom all sources of additional types of textile piece-goods subject to prior authorization. June 14. Circular No. 119 provided that domestic and foreign securities accruing in Senegal to a non- resident by donation could henceforth be placed in a foreign securities dossier. June 14. Circular No. 120 increased the amount up to which exports to foreign countries were exempt from domiciliation from CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 500,000, and the corresponding amount for imports from CFAF 25,000 to CFAF 500,000. June 24. A new Investment Law, Law No. 72-43 of June 12, 1972, was published and came into effect. The previous Investment Code Law No. 62-33 of March 22, 1962, was revoked. July 4. Circular No. 142 increased the exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries from the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year to CFAF 150,000 a person a year (from CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 75,000 for children under t e n ). The special allocation for business travel was increased f rom the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 a person a day (subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip) to CFAF 7,500 a person a day (subject to a maximum of CFAF 150,000 a person a t r ip ). Both allocations hence- forth could also be taken up in the form of travelers checks denominated in French francs. The amount in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries that trav- elers could take out in addition to their foreign exchange allocation was increased from CFAF 10,000 to CFAF 15,000. The use abroad of credit cards required the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. The amount of foreign banknotes that nonresi- dent travelers could freely take out was increased from the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 to CFAF 50,000. July 5. Circular No. 144 provided that payments for imports valued at over CFAF 15,000 and up to CFAF 500,000 henceforth could not be made until after customs clearance. Import payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 continued to be governed by Circular No. 18 of January 14, 1969. The circular also con- firmed that payments abroad up to CFAF 15,000 could, as previously, be made freely. August 21. Following a similar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, Order No. 9261 shifted a number of current transactions f rom the financial franc market to the official exchange market. The principal current payments and receipts that continued to be channeled through the financial f ranc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remit- tances. 408 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Exchange Rate System * The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Leone, corresponding to Le 0.833333 = SDR 1. The Bank of Sierra Leone stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = £ stg. 0.50, subject to a maximum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 30, 1972, the banks' buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were US$1.18 and US$1.16, respectively, per Le 1. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the M in is try of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct paymen ts into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone is a member of the Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U . K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Settlements with other Sterling Area countries usually are made in sterling or other Sterling Area currencies. Certain settlements with ma in land China must be chan- neled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement.1 Authorized payments to coun tr ies other than ma in land China and Rhodesia, inc lud ing paymen ts for imports, may be made in leones to the credit of an Ex ternal Account in Sierra Leone, in s ter l ing to the credit of an External Account in the United K ingdom, or in any other foreign cu r rency - except Rhodesian cu r rency. Receipts f rom countries other than m a in l and Ch ina and Rho- desia may be obtained in sterling f r om an External Account in the United K ingdom, in leones f rom an Ex ternal Account in Sierra Leone, or in any specified currency.8 Receipts f rom exports to coun tr ies other than m a in l and China and Rhodesia may also be obtained in any cu r rency that is f ree ly exchangeable for Sierra * Fo l low ing the a n n o u n c em e nt on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the leone continued to float w i th sterling. 1 A paymen ts ag r e em ent conc luded w i th G u i n ea in 1964 is inopera- t ive. 2 Foreign cu r renc ies are all cu r renc ies other than the leone. 3 Au s t r ian sch i l l ings, Be lg ian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, French f rancs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, N e th e r l ands gu i ld e r s, No rweg ian k ron e r, Po r tuguese cscudos, Span ish pesetas, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f ranc s, and U. S. dollars. Leonean currency. Settlements with Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by nonresidents other than residents of Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments to non- residents with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency by nonresidents. They may be debited for any payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone conducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports from mainland China, countries in the Soviet area other than Czechoslovakia and the U. S. S. R., and Algeria, Egypt, Guinea, and the Republic of Korea, and certain commodities 4 from any source require individual import licenses. The National Trading Company Ltd. has a monopoly over the import of specified foods tuffs. With the exception of specified textiles,5 all other imports from Czechoslovakia, the U. S. S. R., and most countries and territories outside ma in land China and the Soviet area may be made freely under open general license.6 Foreign exchange is granted for all permitted imports. 4 The "negative"' list includes bacteriological produc ts and other antibiotics, op ium and cocaine derivatives and preparations, medicines and pha rmaceu t ical produc ts, firearms, ammunition, explosives, unworked and pa r t ly worked silver, gold jewelry, mea t, rice, seeds, f lower bu lbs, wheat f lour, maslin f lour, corn, ce r ta in other food s tu f f s, raw tobacco, cer ta in tex t i les and tex t i le articles, fiber suitcases, umbrel- las, plastic foo twea r, cement, commodities of the type expor ted by the Sierra Leone Produce Ma rke t ing Board (e.g., pa lm kernel and palm o i l ), live ca t t le, salt, certain oil ref inery p roduc t s, all sizes of com- plete passenger automobiles, ce r ta in other motor vehicles, and certain pa r ts of motor vehicles. 5 These specified textiles may be impor ted under open general license f rom all countries other than ma in land Ch ina, Repub l ic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eas tern G e rm any, Hong Kong, Hung a ry, Ind ia, Japan, No r th Korea, Repub l ic of Korea, Pak i s tan, Po land, Roman ia, Singa- pore, and Sri Lanka. Imports f rom the sources mentioned are res tr ic ted. 6 The open general license applies to A rgen t ina, Aus t ra l ia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Be lg ium, B e rmud a, Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, B u rm a, Cameroon, Canada, Cen tral A f r i c an Repub l ic, Chad, Chile, Colom- b ia, People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyp rus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, F in land, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Ge rmany, Gh an a, Greece, Gua tema la, Ha i t i, Hondu ras, Hong Kong, Iceland, Ind ia, Indonesia, Ire land, Israel, I ta ly, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, Japan, Jo rdan, K eny a, Khmer Republic, Kuwa i t, Leeward Islands, Libyan A r ab R e p u b l i c, Lux embou rg, Ma lagasy Repub l ic, Malawi, Ma lays ia, Ma l i, Malta, M au r i t an i a, Mexico, Morocco, Ne ther lands, New Zea land, N ica ragua, N iger, N iger ia, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Pe ru, Ph i l ipp ine s, Senegal, S ingapo re, Spa in, Sri L ank a, Sweden, Sw i tzer- land, T an z an i a, T r in id ad and Tobago, Tun is ia, T u r k e y, U g a n d a, U. S. S. R., Un i ted K ingdom, Un i ted States, Upper Volta, U r u g u a y, Venezue la, W i n dw a rd I s l and s, Yugo s lav ia, Z a i r e, and Zamb ia. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require approval, which for most current transactions is given free ly. For t ravel abroad, residents are en t i t led to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a calendar year. Appli- ca t ions for larger amoun ts are considered on an indi- v idual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allow- ance, travelers may take out, regardless of destination, Le 20 in leone notes and the equivalent of Le 50 in fo re ign cu r rency notes other than Rhodesian currency notes. Non re s ident trave lers may take out fore ign cur- rency bankno tes, inc lud ing sterling notes, declared by them when en te r ing Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities sold to certain destina- tions, exports require ind iv idual export licenses. Exports to Por tuga l, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. The proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 3) of exports other than d iamonds to countries outside the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone w i th in six mon ths f rom the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained. The pro- ceeds f rom exports of diamonds must be obtained in a specified currency which must be sold to either of two designated authorized banks in Sierra Leone. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon en try, persons enter- ing Sierra Leone may br ing in any amount of domestic and fore ign banknotes other than Guinean f ranc notes, the importation of which is prohibited. Banks do not, however, accept any foreign banknotes whose importa- tion into the coun try of issue is prohibited. Capital Capital paymen ts to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission f rom the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated outside Sierra Leone. Investments by nonresidents other than residents of Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Ordinance imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permis- sion if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a person resident outside Sierra Leone. Capital in 410 respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities regis- tered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident out- side Sierra Leone, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given later for tak ing out appreciably more than was brought in. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies unde r tak ing indus tr ial or agricul- tu ral activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for num isma t ic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may free ly purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean gold coins issued for commemorative purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the mone tary authorities, gold pro- ducers, and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require ind iv idual import licenses. Exports of gold in any fo rm require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and local gold producers. Travelers, however, do not require a license to take out personal jewelry valued at up to Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. that Sierra Leone Changes during 1972 January 25. The Fund noted availed itself of wider margins. June 23. Sierra Leone ceased to be a Scheduled Ter- ritory of the Sterling Area. June 24. Schedule 1 of Sierra Leone's Exchange Con- trol Act was amended to exclude all Sterling Area countries except Sierra Leone f rom the list of Scheduled Territories. As a result, exchange control, which previ- ously was applicable only to countries outside the Sterling Area, was extended to the Sterling Area. Fur- thermore, the Specified Currency (Amendmen t) Order provided that all currencies other than the leone were to be regarded as non-Scheduled Territory currencies, i.e., as foreign currencies. The pound sterling became a specified currency. June 27. Following the floating of sterling, the effec- tive parity relationship for sterling was maintained unchanged at Le 1 = £ stg. 0.50. As a result, the leone began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for which had been Le 1 - US$1.30286. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Singapore Dollar, corresponding to S$3.06122 = SDR 1 or S$2.81955 = US$1, and Singapore avails itself of wider marg ins. The Board of Commissioners of Cur- rency, Singapore, stands ready to buy Singapore cur- rency against U. S. dollars, which is the intervention currency, at S$2.8830 per US$1 and to sell Singa- pore currency for U .S. dollars at S$2.7561 per US$1; these rates include a commission of 21A per cent per Singapore dollar which the Board charges per Singapore dollar issued or redeemed, and no additional commis- sions are charged. The Board deals only in dollars and only at these limits. No official buy ing and selling rates have been established for other currencies. Commercial banks deal directly w i th the Monetary Au thor i ty of Singapore which has discretion to buy and sell dollars w i th in or at the l im i ts of the official buy ing and selling rates of the Currency Board; the Monetary Authority has posted "support rates" of S$2.8820 selling, and S$2.7570 buying, per U. S. dollar. As at December 30, 1972, the buy ing and selling rates of the commercial banks were S$2.8110 and S$2.8230 per US$1, respec- tively, for telegraphic transfers. The commercial banks quote mu tua l ly agreed rates for customers for trans- actions of up to S$250,000 for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified currencies; T for transac- tions in excess of S$250,000, they quote freely, within the support margins maintained by the Monetary Authority. Authorized banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Singapore, Malaysian, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and w i thout charge, in the three countries concerned, at the com- mercial banks and w i th the mone tary authorities. Singapore fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom November 9, 1968. Administration of Control The Monetary Au thor i ty of Singapore administers exchange control. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers import and export controls. Prescription of Currency Singapore on June 23, 1972 ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Singapore ma in ta ined its par value unchanged in terms of gold. The par value accordingly became equ iva lent to S$2.53760 = US$1. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, No rweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 1947. Singapore has made no changes, however, in the list of Scheduled Territories ( fo rme r ly referred to also as Sterling Area terr i tor ies) which appears in the first schedule to the Singapore Exchange Control Act. All payments to and f rom the Scheduled Territories may be made in either a Scheduled Territory currency or a specified currency. Certain paymen ts to Poland, Ro- man ia, and the U. S. S. R. are made through special accounts. Payments to other countries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia may be made in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Sched- uled Territories through an External Account, or in any non-Scheduled Territory currency other than Rho- desian currency. Receipts f rom exports to other coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia must be obtained in either Singapore dollars or another currency of the Scheduled Territories through an Ex- ternal Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other Scheduled Terri- tories are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Scheduled Territory currency, other than Rhodesian currency, sold to a bank in Singapore, with Transfers of Singapore dollars or sterling f rom other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any non-Scheduled Territory currency other than Rhodesian currency. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior ap- proval. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports are permitted freely under open general license or specific licenses, depending on the nature and origin of the goods. A few imports are con- trolled for health or security reasons, and in such cases certain conditions must be satisfied before licenses are issued. Some imports are restricted for the protection of local industries. Only 23 commodities, including gold, rice, and wheat flour, require specific licenses irrespec- tive of origin. All imports originating in Rhodesia and South Africa or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Furthermore, the open general license does not apply to goods originating in, wholly or mainly manu fac tu red in, or consigned f rom Albania, ma in land China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Mongolia, and 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Nor th Viet-Nam, and license applications for such goods must be submitted through the intermediary of Intraco Ltd., which levies a surcharge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from these countries. Intraco, a state-sponsored trading company, conducts much of the importing business with state trading countries. For imports of certain commodities, the open general license does not apply to Japan. Permission to make payments for permitted imports is readily given, provided that the prescription of cur- rency regulations are observed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Scheduled Territories may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments of a current na tu re to other countries, except Rhodesia, are authorized, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either without limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic foreign exchange allowance equivalent to S$ 10,000 a person a year for travel outside the Scheduled Territories and amounts in excess of this figure are allowed on applica- tion. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are sub- ject to exchange control approval, which is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than S$ 1,000 in Singapore notes and the equivalent of S$2,000 in foreign currency notes and Scheduled Terri- tory banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Ma- laysia, and B rune i) may be taken out of Singapore by travelers; there is no restriction on the amount of Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei currency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commis- sioners of Currency, Malaya and British Borneo, that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to Brunei or Malaysia. Travelers visiting Singapore may take out any amount of foreign currency notes and Scheduled Territory banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Malaysia, and B rune i) that was declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles to Canada, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States are subject to quan t i ta- tive restriction, and all exports of copra, scrap metal, steel bars, cement, and a few minor items are restricted. Other commodities do not require an export license. 412 Exchange control approval is required on ly for exports exceeding S$20,000 in value to countries outside the Scheduled Territories and for exports to any country of gold in any form; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Exchange Control Act and are sold to an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Export proceeds in specified currencies may, however, be deposited for up to three months af ter receipt with an authorized bank, during which period they may be used freely to make commercial current payments and any other approved payments to nonresidents of Singa- pore. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Malaysia may bring in any amount in Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei cur- rency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Malaya and British Borneo, and other travelers may bring in S$ 1,000 in Singapore notes; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Singapore, Malaysian, and Brunei cur- rency notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India in excess of Rs 270 and of Indonesia in excess of Rp 3,000. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and f rom other countries in the Scheduled Territories. Capi- tal transfers from Singapore to countries outside the Scheduled Territories require exchange control ap- proval. Inward transfers of capital from such countries do not require approval but the subsequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Singapore for invest- ment purposes in most cases is subject to ind iv idual exchange control approval. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an Asian Currency Unit, and thus to operate in the Asian dollar market, may freely accept deposits in specified currencies and Scheduled Territory currencies from an External Account from nonresidents of Singapore and may freely on-lend specified currencies to nonresidents of Singapore; banks require individual exchange control approval for cor- responding borrowing or lending transactions with residents of Singapore. All transactions must be con- ducted over accounts held in the Asian Currency Units of the banks concerned. Borrowing in the Asian dollar market by resident exporters is in practice unrestricted. Investment by residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Account or transferred in a specified currency; invest- ment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. However, to ensure that subscription monies are derived from an External Account, exchange control approval is required before shares are issued to residents of countries out- side the Scheduled Territories. Subject to prior exchange control approval, proceeds from sales of securities held in Singapore and of other investments may be freely repatriated by residents of countries outside the Sched- uled Territories. Borrowing f rom local banks by non- resident-controlled companies is not restricted. Investments by Singapore nationals in countries out- side the Scheduled Territories may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of Singapore. Gold The S$150 gold coins issued by the Board of Com- missioners of Currency, Singapore, and the M$100 gold coins issued by Bank Negara Malaysia may be freely held by residents. They may also be imported or exported on the person of travelers up to a limit of S$ 1,000 a person. The import and export of other gold coins are not subject to import or export licensing, and their export is exempt from exchange control require- ments. Otherwise, the following applies. There is a free gold market in Singapore to which only nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories have access. Only authorized dealers in gold may deal in gold bullion, and licenses are issued to them to import gold from any source for sale in this market. Settle- ments must take place in a Scheduled Territory cur- rency from an External Account or in a specified currency. Buyers may export the gold or deposit it with an authorized dealer; they may also resell it to any authorized dealer. Residents other than authorized dealers are not per- mitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manufac tured into jewelry. Goldsmiths are, however, permitted to purchase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer for the manu fac tu re of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Imports of gold jewelry and ornaments and of gold wire for indus- trial purposes do not require a specific import license, but otherwise permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewe lry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given, except for imports by authorized dealers to meet the genuine require- ments of goldsmiths for manu fac tu r ing jewe lry and ornaments and for industrial use. The import of gold for the manu fac tu re of jewelry for domestic sale takes place under a tender system administered by Intraco. All goldsmiths, who must be registered with the Invest- ment and Exchange Control Department of the Mone- SINGAPORE tary Authority, may take part. Successful tenderers are granted purchase permits enabling them to obtain their supplies of gold f rom the authorized agents of Intraco. The amount that any successful tenderer may purchase is limited to 1,500 ounces a quarter. Imports of gold bars, including those effected under the tender system, are subject to a levy of S$3 an ounce.2 There are no other duties or taxes applicable to domestic or foreign gold transactions. Exports to Scheduled Territory countries of articles manufactured partly or wholly of gold require neither exchange control approval nor an export license. Other- wise, exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are pro- hibited. The price of gold used for the manu fac tu re of orna- ments is fixed by the Singapore-Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association, subject to agreement by the Finance Ministry. On December 30, 1972, this price was about S$260 per tael for 24 carat gold and S$240 per tael for 22 carat gold. Changes during 1972 During the year, a number of measures were taken to foster the fu r ther growth of the Asian dollar market and the markets in spot and forward foreign exchange. These measures included, in addition to those specified below, the granting of operating licenses to three inter- national money brokers and approval to establish certain merchant banks. January 1. The 20 per cent liquidity ratio require- ment against the deposit liabilities of commercial banks' Asian Currency Units was abolished. January 1. The annual quotas for imports of wheat flour were continued at the previous level of 1 per cent of 1962 imports. Those for certain mild steel bars were continued at the previous level of 1 per cent of 1964 or 1965 imports, depending on type. January 7. Imports of Norwegian origin required specific licenses. On December 8, they were brought under open general license again. March 8. The stamp du ty on negotiable certificates of deposit, promissory notes issued by or negotiated through banks, and bills of exchange was abolished. April 5. Resident companies were permitted to bor- row in the Asian dollar market for export finance. May 6. The Minister of Finance in his budget state- ment announced that exchange control would be fur ther liberalized. The Monetary Authority would be prepared to approve, on a case-by-case basis, applications sub- mitted by companies to hold deposits in Asian Cur- rency Units, provided that the funds were large and represented repatriable earnings. The Monetary Au- thority would also be prepared to consider applications 2 Exempt f rom this levy is gold imported by authorized dealers and goldsmiths for re-export to Ma lays ia u n d er M a l ay s i a 's gold tender system. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE by insurance companies and approved provident and pension f u n ds to invest up to 10 per cent of their f u n ds in Asian Currency Units or in approved Asian dollar bonds. (The former measure became effective on May 8, 1972, the latter on June 2, 1972.) May 11. The restrictions on local borrowing by non- resident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms operat- ing in Singapore were l if ted. June 23. Singapore ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory under the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. June 23. The exchange market was closed. It re- opened on June 28. June 23. The Association of Banks suspended the daily posting of "merchant rates" ("best agreed" rates) for sterling. June 26. Following the floating of the pound sterling and the repegging of the Malaysian dollar f rom sterling to the U. S. dollar, it was announced that Singapore maintained the par value of its currency in terms of gold and also repegged f rom sterling to the U. S. dollar, with effect f rom June 25. The U. S. dollar replaced sterling as the intervention currency. Previously, the parity relationship for sterling had been <£ stg. 1 = S$7.3469. A middle rate of S$2.8196 was set for the U. S. dollar. The upper limit for the U. S. dollar was set at S$2.8830 and the lower limit at S$2.7561 per US$1. The Monetary Authority's support rates for the U. S. dollar were fixed at S$2.8820 selling and S$2.7570 buying. The interchangeability arrangements with Malaysia and Brunei were continued without change; the related settlements between the monetary authorities, however, were from June 26 effected in U. S. dollars at par. July 7. Imports of fluorescent tubu lar lamps were freed f rom quota restriction. July 11. For exchange transactions in excess of S$250,000, commercial banks no longer were obliged to apply the "merchant rates" fixed by the Association of Banks. They could henceforth quote freely for such transactions, w i th in the support marg ins maintained by the Monetary Authority. July 15. Imports and exports of gold coins were liberalized. August 25. Residents receiving export proceeds in specified currencies could re ta in these for up to three months with authorized banks in Singapore. The re- tained f u n ds could be used freely to make current commercial paymen ts and any other permitted pay- ments to Scheduled Territories and non-Scheduled Territories (o ther than Poland, Rhodesia, Roman ia, and the U. S. S. R . ). August 25. Payments to and f rom Scheduled Terri- tory countries no longer were required to be made in Scheduled Territory currencies. Henceforth, they could also be made in any specified currency (see foo tno te 1 ). September 29. Imports of carbon paper were freed f rom quota restriction. October 12. The Singapore Government floated a US$20 million bond issue in the Asian do l lar market. October 12. With effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1973, the rate of corporate income tax on interest accruing from offshore lending by Asian Currency Units was reduced from 40 per cent to 10 per cent. October 16. Import duties on a wide range of goods, including motor vehicles, were increased. 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0 .118193 gram of fine gold per Somali Sh i l l ing, correspond ing to So. Sh. 7 .51881 = SDR 1 or So. Sh. 6.92522 = US$1, and Somalia ava i ls itself of wider margins. The Somali Na t ional Bank carries out exchange t ransac t ions in some of the "convertible" currencies l w i th au thor ized dealers at fixed rates, tak ing into consideration those in lead ing exchange marke ts in Europe; on December 31, 1972, the Bank 's b u y i ng and selling rates for the U. S. do l lar were So. Sh. 6.9252 and So. Sh. 7.0637. The exchange ma rket in Somalia comprises the Somali Na t ional Bank and the commercial banks, operating as au tho r ized exchange dealers in respect of t ransac t ions in fore ign currencies. There is a fore ign exchange commission ( inc lud ing bank ing com- mission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. Author- ized exchange dealers genera l ly do not conduct fo rwa rd exchange transac t ions on behalf of the public, although this is not proh ib i ted. Administration of Control The M in is t ry of Commerce is the pr inc ipal govern- ment agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the au tho r i ty to regulate and control all foreign economic transactions and to establish policy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Somali Na t ional Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies,1 and to appoint authorized exchange dealers. Certain independ- ent commercial banks have been appointed as author- ized exchange dealers. The National Bank may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members representing various min- istries, the Somali Na t ional Bank, the Customs Author- ity, and the police, advises the M in is try of Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulations and con- trol of foreign economic transactions. The National and the Local Licensing Committees, usua l ly consisting of members representing the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applica- tions for licenses for imports and exports and for trans- fers in respect of services. The Somali Na t ional Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the National * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, Somalia ma in ta ined its par value un- changed in terms of gold. On February 24, the official buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were changed to So. Sh. 6.2327 and So. Sh. 6.3712, respectively. 1 The "convertible" cu r renc ies are listed as Belgian francs, Djibouti francs, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Ind ian rupees, Italian lire, Kenya shillings, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, U. S. dollars, Uganda shillings, and Yemeni dinars. Licensing Committee in Mogadiscio, unless they are governed by the provisions of Law No. 10 of Febru- ary 18, 1960 on fore ign investments as extended and amended by Decree-Law No. 3 of March 3, 1968 and Law No. 17 of June 15, 1968. Prescription of Currency Settlements with ma in land China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling. Settlements with Egypt must be made mostly in convertible currencies; 50 per cent of payments for imports f rom Egypt and all paymen ts for invisibles to Egypt other than those for Suez Canal dues are to be debited to Somalia's creditor balance resulting f rom the terminated payments agreement with that country; other payments normally are channeled through special accounts denominated in sterling. Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see footnote 1); however, residents are not permitted to make settle- ments with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies may be opened with authorized exchange dealers by Somali nationals residing abroad and deriving income only f rom sources outside Somalia; foreign nationals and foreign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia; fore ign persons customarily resident abroad and companies whose head office is abroad, provided that they do not derive income (including export proceeds) from sources within Somalia; and by other physical or juridical persons individually authorized by the Somali National Bank to maintain a nonresident account. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped f rom Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. For reasons of public policy, the import of a few commodities f rom all sources may be prohibited and that of certain other items requires individual license. All other commodities may be imported freely. Individual licenses are required for some 15 com- modities or groups of commodities. Some of these commodities may be imported only f rom specified sources.2 No quotas are maintained for any imports. The state trad ing organization (The National Agency for Trade, Ente Nazionale per il Commercio or ENC) is responsible, inter alia, for the import and /or distri- bution of certain commodities received under aid pro- grams. It also is the sole agent for the importation of animal and vegetable oils and fats, rice, wheat flour, 2 The permitted origin varies f rom commodity to commodity; the specified sources of supply generally are Egypt and/or the U. S. S. R. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA coffee, tea, sugar, pasta, soap and detergents, bleached and unbleached cotton cloths, and certain other com- modities. All imports, whether subject to licensing or not, must be declared. If goods imported under license differ in weight, quan t i ty, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and con- sular agencies, and in te rna t ional organizations are sub- ject to a statistical and adm in is tra t ive tax of 10 per cent. Paymen ts for imports are authorized by the Somali Na t ional Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of either an import license (where required) or a "notice of import of goods not subject to license" and other documen ta t ion relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc.). Provided that the Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for impo r ts is gran ted to the applicant not later than the third business day fo l low ing the receipt of the applica- tion or on such o ther subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Somali Na t ional Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise not actually passed through customs at the time of pay- m en t) provided that documen tary evidence of actual sh ipment is produced. Advance paymen ts for imports w i thout documen ta ry evidence of ac tual shipment are not permitted. Payments for imports f rom neighboring countries 3 are permitted only by letter of credit and by cash against documentation. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Paymen ts for current invisibles are subject to l icens ing, m a i n ly to prevent unau thor ized cap i tal movemen ts; provided that balance of paymen ts cons idera t ions pe rm i t, g e n u i ne requirements are met. Transfers of salaries, wages, g ra tu i t ies, and allowances paid in Somalia to the ir foreign personnel by enter- prises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are no rma l ly allowed up to 50 per cent. The Somali Na t ional Bank may g rant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Applications for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Comm i t tees in Mogadiscio and Hargeisa. For tou r ist travel by res iden ts, there is an a l lowance of the equivalent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is app l icab le to all coun tr ies, except Canada, Japan, and the Un i ted States; for these three countries, the allow- ance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Non res ident travelers may take out w i t h o ut authoriza- t ion any fo re ign exchange wh ich they b rought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Res ident 3 Aden, D j ibou t i, M u k a l l a, E th iop ia, and Kenya. 416 travelers may take out w i thout authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coins. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export declaration is required for all commodities. Exports of bananas and eleven other commodities or groups of commodities are subject to license; other exports may be made freely. Bananas are exported only by the Banana Marketing Board. The ENC is the sole agent for the exportation of incense, myrrh, and gum arable. All export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within five business days a f ter their receipt. The Somali National Bank may exempt exporters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export proceeds. Where no banks are operating such exports are permitted up to So. Sh. 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized dealer w i th in five business days after their receipt. The Somali National Bank may grant exemptions from the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers may b r ing in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any fore ign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Capital transac t ions are subject to l icens ing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960 (as amended in March and June 1968). In accordance with the provi- sions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of P lann ing and Coordination. For "productive" enterprises (i.e., those that engage in irri- gation, improvement of land, establishment of factories, construction of aqueducts, and testing, analyzing, and drilling activities in connection w i th oil and mineral exp lo ra t ion ), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested; the unused portion of this transfer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution year be less than 15 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is correspondingly increased. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be trans- ferred abroad over a minimum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or partial exemption to any enterprise from import and export taxes, excise du ty, income tax, and municipal tax for a period not exceeding five years. For investments reg- istered prior to March 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises registered in or a f ter March 1968 must, to the largest possible extent, employ residents; a program for the substitution of res- ident employees for nonresidents is to be submitted, for the record, to the Committee on Foreign Investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for num isma t ic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. Such coins and unworked gold may be traded in Somalia only against domestic cur- rency, at fixed buying and selling rates established by the Somali Na t ional Bank on September 26, 1964; these rates are So. Sh. 7.937 and So. Sh. 8.101 a kilogram, respectively. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the monetary au tho r i t ies and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require permissions issued by the Somali National Bank; such permissions are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and indu s t r i al users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down to a fineness of not more th an 22 cara ts w i th in one mon th. Imports are exempt f rom customs du ty when o r ig ina t ing in EEC countries and subject to a 10 per cent du ty when of other o r ig in. Changes during 1972 January 9. Somalia established a central rate of So. Sh. 6.9252 = US$1. At the same time, Somalia availed itself of wider margins. Previously, the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar had been So. Sh. 6.57895 = US$1. January 9. The Na t ional Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were changed f rom SOMALIA So. Sh. 6.7857 and So. Sh. 7.1428, respectively, to So. Sh. 6.9252 and So. Sh. 6.9252, respectively. January 9. A revised list of "convertible" currencies was issued. February 10. The National Agency for Trade (ENC) was made the sole agent for the importation and distri- bution of the following commodities: candies, coffee, dry batteries, pasta, plastic and rubber sandals, soap and detergents, sugar, and tea. At the same time ENC began to operate in the export trade. It was given the mono- poly to export incense, myrrh, and gum arabic. March 1. Sugar was added to the list of goods that require an import license. May 22. The special facility allowing advance pay- ments against a 15 per cent cash deposit for imports from neighboring countries was abolished. June 1. The par value was changed from 0.124414 gram to 0.118193 gram of fine gold. The new par value replaced the central rate of So. Sh. 6.9252 = US$1. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at So. Sh. 6.92522 = US$1. Somalia continued to avail itself of wider margins. June 24. Following the floating of the pound sterling, the fore ign exchange market was closed. It reopened on June 25. June 25. For the currencies it quoted, the National Bank applied a spread between buying and selling rates of 10 per cent on either side of the parity rates; this spread applied to all trade transactions and to trade- related invisibles; where circumstances wa r ran ted, how- ever, adjustments could be made to compensate buyers and sellers of foreign exchange. For sales and pur- chases of foreign exchange for travel purposes the spread was limited to plus or m inus 5 per cent, without possibility of read jus tmen t. July 5. The Na t ional Bank established new buy ing and selling rates for a number of "convertible" cur- rencies, with narrower spreads. The rates for the U. S. dollar were So. Sh. 6.9251 and So. Sh. 7.1810, re- spectively. October 1. All insurance on impor ts had to be taken out with the Na t ional Insurance Company. November 25. Somali na t iona ls abroad on d ip loma t ic service could no longer open nonresident accounts with authorized exchange dealers. December 5. Fabrics, made -up articles and related products, and clothing could be imported only when originating in A f r ican or Arab countries, member coun- tries of the EEC, mainland China, U. S. S. R., Nor th Korea, or Eastern Germany. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Rate System* The par va lue is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per South A f r ican Rand, corresponding to R 1 = SDR 1.17648 or R 1 = US$1.27732. South Africa has not availed itself of wider margins. Exchange rates are based on the South A f r ican Reserve Bank's fixed rates for the U. S. dollar against rand (R 0.7809 buying, and R 0.7848 selling, per U. S. do l la r) and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U. S. dollar. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover in U. S. dollars only. The commercial banks' spot rates for the U .S. dollar on December 30, 1972 were US$1.2806 buying, and US$1.2742 selling, per R 1. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securi- ties, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Otherwise, there are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Afr ica (defined for exchange control purposes as including South West A f r i c a ), Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these are regarded as fo rm ing, w i th the Republic of South Afr ica, a single exchange control territory, the Rand Currency Area. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports ac t ing on behalf of the Secre- tary for Commerce. Exchange licensing is the responsi- bility of the Treasury, which has delegated this author- ity to the South A f r ican Reserve Bank; in tu rn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the commercial banks much of its l icens ing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed impo r ts is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South Africa is a member of the Sterling Area although on June 23, 1972 it ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the United Kingdom Exchange Control Act, 1947. All countries outside the Rand Currency Area constitute the Nonresident Area. * Settle- ments within the Rand Currency Area take place in * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, South A f r i ca decided to ma in ta in its par va lue in te rms of gold. The Reserve Bank with effect from Feb rua ry 14 quoted fixed rates for the U. S. dollar of US$1.4229 buy ing and US$1.4157 selling per R 1. 1 In the application of the Securities Control Notices, however, the Nonresident Area comprises all countries outside South Afr ica, and thus includes Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. Correspondingly, there are two def in i t ions of resident s ta tus for exchange control purposes. 418 rand only. Settlements with residents of the Nonresident Area, except Rhodesia, may be made in rand to and f rom a nonres ident account and in any specified cur- rency 2 and, for outgoing payments only, in any other foreign currency. 3 Settlements with Rhodesia may be made in rand to and f rom a local Rhodesian or other non res ident account, in Rhodesian currency and, for inward payments only, in any specified currency. Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of residents outside the Rand Currency Area are divided into Rhodesian Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Rhodesian Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing b a n k s) resident, domiciled, or registered in Rhodesia. They may be credited with all authorized paymen ts by South A f r ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Afr ica of Rhodesian currency and of any specified currency, and with payments f rom local Nonresident or Rhodesian Accounts. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South A f r ican residents, for paymen ts to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Afr ica for short periods, for payments to other local Rhodesian Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing banks) resident, domiciled, or registered outside Rhodesia and the Rand Currency Area. They may be credited with all authorized pay- ments by South Afr ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of specified currency, and with payments f rom other Nonresident Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to South A f r ican residents for any purpose, for paymen ts to nonresidents for any purpose, i.e., by t rans fer to a local Nonresident or Rhodesian Account or for remittance to any country outside the Rand Currency Area, for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency, and for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Afr ica for short periods. Blocked Accounts are held by nonresidents of South Africa and are subject to exchange control restrictions.4 They represent ma in ly the proceeds f rom sales of South 2 Aus t ra l ian dollars, Au s t r i an schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Ind ian rupees, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Malagasy f r an c s, Ma lawi kwacha, Ne ther lands gu i lde rs, New Zea land dollars, Norweg ian kroner, Pakistan rupees, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, U. S. dollars, za'ires, and Zamb ian kwacha. 3 Foreign cu r rency is any cu r rency o ther legal tender in South A f r ica. 4 Un l ike the other types of non res ident r a nd accounts, Blocked Accounts can also be held by res iden ts of Bo tswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. than cu r r en cy that is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Afr ican securities by a nonresident of South Afr ica to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer or reinvested in securities which are quoted locally; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in gove rnmen t, mun ic ipa l, or public u t i l i ty bonds, the proceeds on redemption at ma tu r i ty are f ree ly t rans fe rab le to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a con t inuous period of at least five years to redemption. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to nonresi- dents of South A f r ica only, of five-year transferab le bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repay- able at face value in foreign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may be used for direct investment in manu fac tu r- ing enterprises. Emigrants' assets that exceed the per- missible transferab le amoun t, and the proceeds of South Afr ican securities held by imm igran ts prior to their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within three years of their arr iva l, are also blocked, but favor- able consideration is given to the release of such immi- grants' funds (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of com- modities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods as prescribed on the relevant import permit. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manu fac tu red in those coun- tries. The Import Control Regulations for 1973, as announced in November 1972, distinguish generally between the following broad categories of imports: (1) Goods which may be imported without an import permit. This free list contains 221 tariff headings or subheadings and corresponds to some 20 per cent of 1970 imports. (2) Goods which may be imported only under permit but subject to automatic licensing for bona fide merchants and manufacturers. These fall under an un- specified number of tariff headings or subheadings and correspond to 54 per cent of 1970 imports. ( 3) Goods which may be imported only under permit and for which global quotas are determined f rom time to time. These account for about 18 per cent of 1970 imports. (4) Goods which may be imported only under permit and for which specific permits authorizing the import of these goods individually are issued. They cover some 8 per cent of 1970 imports. SOUTH AFRICA Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presentation to his bank of the necessary consign- ment documen ts (proof of impor ta t ion), an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to nonresidents of the Rand Currency Area for current invisibles require exchange licenses. Au tho r i ty is, however, delegated to the commercial banks to approve certain paymen ts without limitation and others up to established limits. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized banks w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Reserve Bank and the profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable con- sideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, fam i ly maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 350 for an adult (R 140 for a child under 12) for travel to Malawi, Rhodesia, Zaire, Zambia, and Portuguese East and West Africa. Applications for larger amounts are con- sidered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South A f r ica for destinations out- side the Rand Currency Area may take out freely, as part of the basic travel allowance, the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes, of which South African Reserve Bank notes may not exceed R 100 for travel to Malawi, Portuguese East Africa, Rhodesia, or Zambia, or R 20 for travel to other destinations. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa w i th in 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R 50 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained f rom the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of Bantu returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in the form of banknotes representing their earnings in South Afr ica. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela- tively short supply, or for which domestic prices are 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- land ). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protec- torate, or trust territory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods to countries outside the Rand Currency Area is controlled to prevent com- modity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in six mon ths from the date of shipment and 30 days f rom the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries out- side the Rand Currency Area, residents may bring in R 20 in South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes, and nonresidents R 50; however, resident and nonresident travelers coming from Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia, or Zambia are allowed to bring in R 100 in South Afri- can Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic currency from Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. Capital 5 Inward capital transfers require exchange control approval; all inward loan transfers require specific approval, while inward transfers in respect of equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to residents f rom capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by resi- dents to destinations outside the Rand Currency Area require the approval of the South Afr ican Reserve Bank and are usua l ly not allowed; when fa l l ing under the Securities Control Notices, transfers to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland also require prior approval. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled firms is subject to l im i ta t ion. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South A f r ican (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South A f r ican residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in fore ign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South Afr ican stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net ou tf low of exchange. Applications by South African residents to retain in, or transfer to, neighboring terri- tories (this term excludes Botswana, Lesotho, and 5 For pu rposes of the application of the Securities Control Notices, a non re s ident is def ined as a person whose no rmal place of residence or dom ic i le is ou ts ide South A f r ica. For all o ther exchange control purposes, a non res ident is a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is ou ts ide the R and Cu r rency Area. 420 Swaziland) funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Afr icans are considered by the South Afr ican Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. For three years after their arrival in South Afr ica, immi- grants may dispose of their foreign assets held outside the Rand Currency Area and also invest in South African securities abroad. However, the proceeds from the sale of all South Afr ican securities brought in by immigrants are blocked; the blocking is normally for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed on amounts up to R 20,000 or more, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current l iv ing expenses. The proceeds of the sale of South A f r ican securities by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the author- ized banks without reference to the South Afr ican Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of South Africa of the proceeds on ma tu r i ty of government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certifi- cates, provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emi- g ran t) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired af ter June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents of South Africa by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceed- ing in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 left over from the reinvestment of blocked fund s; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies f rom estates in South Afr ica that hold no foreign assets. Em igrant families whose assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 transferred outside South Africa as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, transferred; any balance exceeding the permissible trans- ferable amount is blocked. Prior to August 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to the Govern- ment's issue of three-year nonresident rand bonds ( for emigrants, subscriptions of up to R 30,000 a fam i ly were pe rm i t ted ); this enabled the nonresident to secure the transfer of his funds in convertible currencies at official ma rket rates in three equal annu al installments, together with interest at 3^ per cent a year. Since August 1964, facilities have been available for subscrip- tions to five-year transferab le bonds (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The South A f r ican Reserve Bank approves trans- fers of repayments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances or undistributed current profits, or for the transfer of any dividends by them, provided that the remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South Africa of nonresident- owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowance. There are normally three ways in which holders of blocked rand (including holders resident in Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland) can repatriate funds from South Africa: (1) by taking up special nonresident bonds issued by the Government (see above) —these mature in five years, when the redemption proceeds may be withdrawn at the official rate; (2) by holding certain government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certificates for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; and (3) by exporting South African shares bought on the Johannesburg stock exchange, provided that they have been restrictively certain government, municipal, and public utility bonds endorsed, and selling them outside South Africa (at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South African quotation). Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents of South Africa other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and profes- sional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's re tu rn) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufac tur ing jewelers (subject, except for exports to Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zambia, to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the ultimate con- signee). Furthermore, authorized dealers may without reference to the Reserve Bank allow residents to export for numismatic purposes currency coins, including gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant during a calendar year. The gold-mining industry sells its output to the Reserve Bank, except for sales effected on the industry's behalf in the free market. The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins that are legal tender but do not circulate freely in South Africa as currency; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold in non-Sterling Area countries. SOUTH AFRICA Imports of gold are confined mainly to coins for numismatic purposes and to certain types of jewelry. Changes during 1972 March 29. The Minister of Finance in his budget statement announced that the restrictions on borrowing abroad would be maintained for the time being but that the Reserve Bank would continue the more lenient attitude it had adopted in 1971 toward applications for such borrowing. June 9. A second round of import permits for 1972 for the three main classes of consumer goods came into effect. Specifically, importers' allocations of permits for general merchandise were increased from 20 per cent to 30 per cent of their actual imports during 1969, those for textile piece goods from 20 per cent to 35 per cent, and those for clothing from 10 per cent to 25 per cent. In addition, 26 commodity groups, including certain office machines, computer equipment, clocks, and watches, were reinstated in the free list rather than being subject to permit. June 23. South Africa ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 23. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on June 30. June 30. The Government decided to maintain the existing relationship between the rand and the pound sterling. The Reserve Bank resumed exchange opera- tions. Its fixed quotations for sterling, which had been floating since June 23, remained unchanged at .£100 = R 194.6955 (buy ing) and £100 = R 196.1615 (sell- ing ). As a result, the rand began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, for which the parity relationship had been R 1 = US$1.33333. July 4. Following the application of exchange con- trol by the United Kingdom to the overseas Sterling Area countries except Ireland, South Africa's exchange control regulations were amended. The regulations ceased to distinguish between Sterling Area and non- Sterling Area countries. Instead, they now distinguished between the Rand Currency Area (consisting of South Africa and Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland) and the Nonresident Area; the latter was defined in two ways: (a) in the application of the Securities Control Notices it consisted of all countries outside South Africa and (b) for all other purposes it consisted of all countries outside the Rand Currency Area (and thus excluded Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). A South African resident was defined as a person, whether of South A f r ican or any other nationality, who has taken up residence in, or is domiciled in, the Republic. A nonresident was defined in two ways: (a) in the application of the Securities Control Notices, as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Republic of South Africa and (b) for all other purposes, as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Currency Area. Thus, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA and Swaziland con t inued to be regarded as nonresidents for purposes of control over transactions in securities only. Nonresident rand accounts were reclassified into three groups: Rhodesian, Nonresident, and Blocked Accoun ts; the reclassification involved the merging of Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts and their redesignation as Nonresident Accounts. The list of specified currencies, previously covering 15 non-Sterling Area currencies, was expanded to include 12 Sterling Area currencies, the Malagasy f ranc, and the za ire. The prescription of currency regulations were amended accordingly, with settlements with all nonresidents, except residents of Rhodesia, subject to the same rules. July 25. South A f r ica disinvoked Article XII of the GATT and f u r t h er eased its quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports. The commodity groups which prior to November 1971 were exempted f rom import licensing but which were then placed under license, were, with the exception of 22 items, reinstated on the free list. The list of commodities which prior to November 1971 were subject to au toma t ic licenses was reinstated with the exceptions mentioned below, and the global import quotas for these items were abolished. The exceptions covered seven commodity groups (pharmaceutical pro- ducts, fungicides, pesticides, and insecticides, textile piece goods, wines and potable spirits, paper and paper board, and general me rchand ise ), for which global import quotas remained in effect. The pre-November 1971 list of commodities which could be imported only under specific permit continued in effect but a fu r ther 18 items were added. October 24. A new par value was established and the rand ceased to float with sterling. The par value was changed f rom R 28.5000 to R 29.7500 per ounce of fine gold, corresponding to SDR 1.17648 per rand. In terms of U. S. dollars, the parity change was from R 1 = US$1.33333 to R 1 - US$1.27732; the latest market rate for the U. S. dollar, however, had been R 1 = US$1.2190. South Africa did not avail itself of wider margins. The Reserve Bank hencefor th quoted fixed rates for the U. S. dollar instead of sterling. The official buying and selling rates were set at US$1.2806 and US$1.2742, respectively, per rand (R 0.7809 and R 0.7848, respec- tively, per U. S. do l la r ). The Bank's quotations for other ma jor currencies were based on their rates against the U. S. dollar in the London exchange marke t. The Bank, which previously provided forward cover in sterling only, now gave cover in U. S. dollars only. November 3. The import regulations for 1973 were published. They included the addition of 122 items to the free list. Moreover, commercial vehicles and spare parts were removed f rom the list of goods for which quotas would be determined from time to time and for these imports, permits would be granted to meet the f u ll reasonable requirements of bona fide merchants and manufac turers. It was also announced that the initial 1973 allocations of import permits for quota imports had been fixed at 80 per cent of 1972 alloca- tion levels. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.0126953 g ram of fine gold per Spanish Peseta, corresponding to Ptas 70 = SDR 1 or Ptas 64.4737 = US$1, and Spain avails itself of wider ma rg ins. The off ic ial in terven t ion limits are Ptas 63.0231 buy ing, and Ptas 65.9243 selling, per US$1. The o f f ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates of the Spanish Foreign Exchange In s t i tu te ( I EM E) on Decem- ber 29, 1972 were Ptas 63.385 and Ptas 63.595 per US$ 1. Market rates for specified currencies 1 adm i t ted to the exchange ma rket vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar ma in ta ined by Spain and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned (or, for Canad ian dollars and sterling, their rates in leading exchange marke ts ab road ). Official buy ing and selling rates for these currencies are fixed da i ly by the Spanish Foreign Exchange In s t i tu te acting in consultation with the authorized banks. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the IEME, which publishes the rates at which it settles the transactions it carries out direct. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U. S. dollar. The IEME also quotes buying and selling rates for bankno tes in specified foreign currencies on a weekly basis. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign ma rke ts for spot trans- actions and fo rwa rd transactions related to commercial transactions for up to 180 days; forward transactions with customers are restricted to currencies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange market. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, and Spanish Sahara constitute a single exchange control ter- ritory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are formu- lated by an interministerial commission. The IEME, an autonomous body of the Ministry of Commerce, is in charge of all administrative functions connected with the exchange control. The Bank of Spain (through the technical facilities of IEME) is in charge of the operative functions (basically, the handling of the external reserves). Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, Spain ma in ta ined its par va lue in terms of gold and con t inued to avail itself of wider margins. On Feb rua ry 17, new intervention limits were set of Ptas 56.7237 buy- ing, and Ptas 59.3350 selling, per US$1. 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro- ner, deutsche mark, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. Commerce. This M in is try also is in charge of the con- trols over Spanish investment abroad, private Spanish borrowing abroad, foreign financing of imports, and the registration of fo re ign inv e s tm en ts in Spain. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified cur- rency,1 but in practice they are usually made in the cur- rency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral paymen ts agree- ment countries 2 are made through agreement accounts expressed in U. S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are f o ur types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts in Convertible Pesetas, External Accounts in Internal Pesetas, Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies, and Bank Accounts in Pesetas with Andorra. External Accounts in Convertible Pesetas may be credited with proceeds from the sale in the Spanish exchange market of any foreign currencies listed in that market; with authorized current and capital payments which have been liberalized or authorized by license, when such payments are to be made in pesetas or speci- fied foreign currencies; with transfers from other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; with interest received on balances held in these accounts; and with receipts from the National Lottery (when evidence is submitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange). They may be debited for the purchase of foreign cur- rencies (including foreign banknotes) listed in the Spanish exchange market; for payments for Spanish exports; for investments in Spain; for transfers to any other external account; and for any other type of pay- ment in Spain. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. Private banks are required to make special noninterest-bearing deposits in cash at the Bank of Spain, in an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of the increases after Octo- ber 18, 1971 in nonresident-held deposits in convertible pesetas (demand deposits, savings account deposits, or time deposits at less than three months' no t ice), and in an amount equivalent to 50 per cent of the increases in such deposit when held for three months or more. Furthermore, banks are prohibited from paying interest on nonresident-held peseta deposits withdrawn within three months of the date of deposit. 2 Bulgaria, Colombia, Cuba, Eastern Germany, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Hungary, Romania, and Syrian A rab Republic. Most settle- ments with the Syrian A rab Republic take place in convertible cur- rencies outside the agreement accounts. With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1973, settlements with Bulgaria, Hunga ry, and R om a n ia were placed on a convertible cu r rency basis. 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold funds accruing in Spain to nonresidents that are not transferable abroad ("blocked pesetas"). Balances are freely negotiable between nonresidents holding such accounts; if the recipient of pesetas does not hold an account of this type, he needs prior approval from the IEME to open one. These accounts may be credited freely with ( 1) capital gains realized on the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate originally acquired with convertible foreign currency or with pesetas from an External Account in Convertible Pesetas; (2) the fu ll proceeds of the sale by a non- resident to a resident of Spanish real estate originally acquired with pesetas f rom an External Account in Internal Pesetas; ( 3) with receipts from the National Lottery (when no evidence is submitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange); (4) with interest received on balances held in these accounts; and ( 5) with transfers from any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. They may be debited for ( 1) pay- ments of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (managers' personal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a juridical pe rson ); (2) the purchase of bonds and shares quoted on the stock exchange; ( 3) the purchase for the use of the account holder of town and country properties that do not represent investments for com- mercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes; (4) the purchase of Na t ional Lottery tickets; and ( 5) transfers to any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authori- zation of the IEME, and the accounts may not be overdrawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Curren- cies may be held by nonresident foreign nationals, non- resident Spanish nationals, and nonresident firms or banks; resident foreign nationals may maintain such accounts only if opened before January 1, 1968. The deposits may be either sight or time deposits. The accounts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange marke t, and for conversion into pesetas, including the transfer to an External Account in External Pesetas. Overdrafts are prohibited, except for mail credits in favor of fore ign banks. Since October 29, 1970, commercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spaniards working abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Most imports are admitted under the following arrangemen ts: (a) free imports, (b) global quotas, (c) state trading, and (d) ind iv idual licensing, also referred to as the 424 "bilateral import regime." All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Policy and Imports. Pro- vided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilat- eral payments agreements; the free list also applies to imports from Iran and Japan.3 All other specified imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted for larger amounts.4 With certain exceptions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for specified imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania are issued freely. Imports of certain agricultural products, some raw mate- rials, petroleum products, and tobacco are state traded; some goods formally listed as being subject to state trading, such as feedgrains, may in fact be freely imported by private traders. Imports of certain agri- cultural products that are free of quantitative restric- tion and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foods tuffs and specified other essential com- modities. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not nor- ma l ly permitted to exceed 90 days. All import trans- actions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the inter- mediary of the bank of domiciliation; exempt from domiciliation are transactions whose value is less than Ptas 100,000, provided that payment is to be made within one year. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and paymen ts by residents in favor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles are subject to authorization, for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large proportion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For certain services transfers may be made freely up to a pre-established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount licenses are required which are granted freely. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued 3 The import free list does not apply to the payments agreement countries (except Egyp t) or to Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Bhutan, mainland China, Nor th Korea, Laos, Mongolia, Nepal, North Viet- Nam, San Marino, Tibet, and U. S. S. R. 4 There are separate global quotas for imports of the same commo- dities from EEC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution interest, dividends, and proceeds f rom the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been pur- chased with convertible pesetas, with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market, or with pesetas released on or a f ter June 1, 1972 f rom External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Profits and dividends on direct invest- ments are also transferable abroad without restric- tion. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Insurance con- tracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 50,000 a person a year; however, amounts in excess of this limit are approved freely by the IEME for bona fide tourist expenses. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 2,000 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each trip. For larger amounts, the banks must apply to the IEME for approval, which is granted freely for this purpose. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Exportation. Exports to all des- tinations of olives for oil production are suspended, while other types of olives may be exported freely. With very few exceptions, licenses for exports are granted freely. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME th rough authorized banks. Certain agricultural exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through author- ized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation is permitted freely in most Spanish industries, as specified in a decree of April 18, 1963. In certain other industries, foreign investment of up to 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise is permitted freely, and that which exceeds 50 per cent requires the au thor iza t ion of the Council of Ministers; for participation in Spanish shipping com- panies, the former ratio is 40 per cent. Foreign invest- ment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected w i th na t ional defense, public in fo rma t ion, and certain public services. New inves tmen t, both foreign and Spanish, for the establishment of Spanish enterprises in a large number of specified sectors that are under the jurisdiction of the Ministries of Industry and Agr icu l ture is free from control, provided that cer ta in m in imum conditions are SPAIN met; these conditions relate ma in ly to the size of the enterprise and its potential output. Investment in exist- ing enterprises in these sectors is permitted freely even if the m in imum conditions are not fu lf i l led. All invest- ment in a few specified industrial and agricultural sectors requires prior authorization by the Government; investment in all other industrial and agricultural sectors and in the tourist sector is free. Foreign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effected either by transferring currencies that are negotiable in the Madrid exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital transferable under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the liquidation of foreign direct investments made for the purpose of establishing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be transferred freely. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies, as specified in Decree No. 701 of April 18, 1963 (including investment trusts but excluding those companies whose activity is directly connected with national defense, public information, and certain public services) are permitted freely. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with con- vertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the conversion of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, f rom the liquidation of such shares may be trans- ferred abroad at any time, or used for fu r ther purchases of shares. The above applies also to bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of Spanish companies; there is no limit on bond holdings. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived from convertible currencies or from balances in convertible peseta accounts. The IEME has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document cer t ify ing that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). Irrespective of the method of financing, country properties purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. When Spanish real estate is sold to a resident, the fu ll sale proceeds are transferable if the initial purchase was financed with pesetas from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas, but only the capital gain over the registered purchase price is transferable if the initial purchase was financed with convertible foreign currency or with pesetas f rom an External Account in Convertible Pesetas. Outward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN same line of business are gran ted rather liberally, pro- vided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enterprises. Other d irect investments are subject to more severe restrictions. Portfolio investments by all residents and purchases of real estate abroad by p r iva te persons are severely restricted. Approval of requests by residents to g rant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria s im i lar to those applied to residents' requests to make direct inves tmen ts abroad. Suppliers' credits f rom Spanish residents to nonresi- dents require au thor iza t ion by the Directorate-General of Expor ta t ion; such au thor iza t ion accompanies the export license. Before issuing the license, the IEME may be consulted about the g ran t ing of the credit. There has been no experience w i th the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonres iden ts, nor with short-term credits gran ted by Spanish banks to nonresidents other than certain export credit granted direct to foreign importers. Credits to nonresidents for transactions with Spain may, however, be au thor ized by the IEME. Also, the authorized banks may extend vari- ous types of credit to nonresidents, provided that this credit is financed with f u n ds deposited in Spain in non- resident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the IEME. Local borrowing at medium or long term by Spanish firms with fore ign participation in excess of 25 per cent is subject to special directives. For transfers abroad of inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally when small amounts are involved. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By law, only the IEME is allowed to import or export gold; industrial requirements are met by imports effected by the IEME. There is a global quota for imports of gold f rom member countries of the EEC. Changes during 1972 During the year import duties on many commodities, primarily foods tuffs and raw materials, were tempo- rarily reduced or suspended. Similar action was taken with respect to compensatory duties. January 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia and Poland, settlements with these countries henceforth took place in convertible currencies. January 1. The global import quotas for 1972 came into effect. Their total value was 10 per cent higher than for 1971. The list of items included was unchanged. 426 January 1. The Ley de Credito Oficial came into force. Among other things, it entrusted the Banco Exterior de Esparia with the provision of export credit, for which purpose it would receive funds f rom the State. January 21. The share of permitted foreign partici- pation in new Spanish investment banks was reduced f rom 50 per cent to 15 per cent of total capital. For- eign investors were also permitted to acquire partici- pations in new commercial banks up to 15 per cent of capital; previously, no foreign participation was per- mitted. At the same time m in imum capital requirements for new commercial and investment banks were raised f r om Ptas 100 million to Ptas 1 billion and Ptas 1.5 billion, respectively, and regu la t ions were in troduced to limit the activities of new banks in the first two years of their operations; du r ing this initial period they would not be permitted to deal in fore ign exchange. March 8. New regulations were issued on the utiliza- tion of External Accounts in Internal Pesetas ("blocked peseta accounts"). They came into force on June 1 (see be low ). Furthermore, nonbank residents could no longer maintain on their books Internal Peseta Accounts in favor of nonresidents. Nonbank residents could show in their records peseta accounts in favor of nonresidents only if the funds concerned were transferab le and were deposited in an account opened in a bank with the permission of the IEME. March 16. Private banks were permitted to grant credit direct to foreign buyers of Spanish capital goods, ships, and technical services, where the total purchase did not exceed Ptas 50 million and the foreign client paid at least 20 per cent in cash. Previously banks could grant such export credit only to Spanish exporters or manufacturers. March 21. Export credit facilities were improved. May 16. The Government decided to maintain the free port status of the Canary Islands. Subsequently, their fiscal status was defined and modified by Law No. 30/1972 of Ju ly 22, 1972. June 1. With the coming into effect of IEME Cir- cular No. 283, which reorganized the system of External Accounts in Internal Pesetas (see June 1, be low ), certain liberalization measures for nonresident-owned investments and blocked funds were taken. The liquida- tion proceeds of foreign direct investments in Spain henceforth were freely transferable also if the invest- ments had been made before January 1, 1950; the sales proceeds of nonresident holdings of Spanish bonds and listed Spanish shares became freely transferable also if the securities had been either purchased before January 1, 1950 or acquired subsequently with the proceeds of securities acquired before that date; the sales proceeds of nonresident holdings of unlisted Spanish shares became freely transferable also if the securities had been either purchased before July 28, 1959 or acquired subsequently with the proceeds of securities acquired before that date; the sales proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of nonresident-owned real estate in Spain became free ly transferable, to the extent of the original pur- chase price, also if acquired before Janua ry 1, 1950. In addition, the scope of the approval au tho r i ty dele- gated to authorized banks with respect to the l iqu ida- tion of direct and po r t fo l io investment in Spain and the related ou tward transfers was widened. Existing balances in External Accounts in Internal Pesetas were released inso far as they had resulted f rom operations now liberalized. The negotiation between nonresidents was free ly permitted of blocked pesetas cons t i tu t ing balances on Ex ternal Accounts in In te rnal Pesetas. June 1. IEME Circular No. 283 of March 8, 1972 came into effec t. The preamble noted that in practice certain amoun ts that by their na tu re were transferable had been credited to External Accounts in Internal Pesetas and that a restatement of the principles that should govern the use of such accounts had become desirable. The principles set fo r th included the follow- ing. The credits and debits were listed that authorized banks could effect without prior authorization f rom the IEME (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ); these credits no longer included the liquidation proceeds of nonresident-owned investments that were liberalized on the same date, and the freely permitted entries now included transfers between accounts of the same nature. External Accounts in Internal Pesetas henceforth could only be held with banks. The Circular also created a new type of nonresident account, Bank Accounts in Pesetas with Andorra, and specified the credits and debits that authorized banks could freely effect on these accounts. June 9. A decree was approved authorizing the first postwar issue of bonds on the in terna t ional capital market by a public sector agency. June 16. The IEME announced that it was consider- ing a liberalization of the rules for forward exchange transactions laid down in Regulation No. 203 of July 1961. The IEME also announced that the introduc- tion of exchange rate guarantees for exporters was under consideration (measures introducing such facili- ties were published on March 13, 1973). July 29. Private banks in Spain were required to deposit in noninterest-bearing accounts with the Bank of Spain 50 per cent of any increases recorded after July 29 in nonresident-held deposits in convertible pesetas with a ma tu r i ty of three months or more. (They were already required to deposit the full amount of any increase after October 18, 1971 in convertible peseta deposits at sight or at less than three months' notice.) August 2. The termination of the bilateral payments agreement with Paraguay was ratified. Settlements took SPAIN f rom effect place in conve r t ib le currencies with October 1. September 15. The first postwar trade agreement with the U. S. S. R. was signed. It contained certain most-favored-nation clauses. Trade was in principle to be balanced. Settlements were to take place in converti- ble currencies. September 26. Agreement was reached w i th the Syrian A rab Republic, subject to ratification, to terminate the bilateral payments agreement. October 11. It was agreed with Roman ia that with effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1973 settlements wou ld take place in convertible currencies. November 3. A decision of October 31 was published in which the Directorate-General of Tariff Policy and Importation established that the procedures for free imports would be applied to certain listed commodities previously subject to the "bilateral import regime" or to global quotas "as long as present economic condi- tions continued." The goods affected were mainly indus- trial products. The new arrangements would initially be valid for one year from the date of publication. November 3. Tariff reductions for a period of three months were introduced by Decree No. 2983 for a wide range of imports. November 23. By virtue of Decree No. 3221 of the Presidency, private importers could be allowed to import as free imports a range of commodities previously sub- ject to state trading or to the "bilateral import regime." These measures would take effect after implementing regulations had been issued and would then continue in force "as long as present economic conditions con- tinued." ( Imp lemen t ing regu la t ions were issued on December 16.) November 26. It was announced that new foreign investors in the automobile indus t ry were required to use locally produced components only to the extent of 50 per cen t; previously the requ irement was 70 to 90 per cent. New entrants would have to export at least two thirds of the ir production and would not be per- mitted to sell in Spain new cars amoun t ing to more than 10 per cent of the total number of new cars registered in the country in the preceding year. The m in imum new investment would normally by Ptas 10 billion. Furthermore, manu fac tu re rs already operating in Spain could also lower the local content to 50 per cent provided they exported both cars and spare parts and provided the annu al value of imported parts did not exceed 50 per cent of the value of their total exports in 1971. The new regulations became law with the pub- lication of a decree on December 7. November 30. New incentives were announced for foreign and domestic investment in "growth centers," provided that applications were submitted before April 15, 1973. They included a rebate of 95 per cent 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN on certain taxes, cash subsidies up to 10 per cent, and official credit up to 70 per cent of the total projected investment. To qualify for these incentives the invest- ment must amount to at least Ptas 40 million or must create at least 100 new jobs in the center. The investor must put up at least 20 per cent of the total investment in cash. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Hungary, and Romania expired. Settle- ments henceforth took place in convertible currencies. 428 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System * Administration of Control SRI LANKA The par value is 0.149297 gram of fine gold per Ceylon Rupee, or Cey Rs 5.95237 = SDR 1; no exchange transactions take place at exchange rates based on the par value. The Ceylon rupee is pegged to sterling at the rate of Cey Rs 15.60= <£! and the exchange rate system for the time being is based on this official rate for sterling, which is floating in terms of U. S. dollars. Another effective rate of Cey Rs 25.74 = £ 1 arises from transactions in Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates (henceforth called certificates), which exporters of nontraditional exports (i.e., exports other than tea, rubber, and major coconut products but including green tea and instant tea) and most other earners or recipients of foreign exchange are entitled to receive upon surrender of foreign exchange earned. Nonresident travelers when converting foreign exchange into Ceylon rupees at the official rate may also receive either corresponding certificates or their cash value in rupees. The certificates are denominated in Ceylon rupees and are issued with a face value equivalent at the official rate to the foreign exchange surrendered; they are transferable within 30 days of the date of issue and may also be surrendered to the mone- tary authorities for encashment at a price of Cey Rs 65 per Cey Rs 100 in certificates. Additional certificates are sold by the Central Bank of Ceylon upon demand and at the same price; such certificates are not trans- ferable. Certificates with a face value corresponding at the official rate to the amount of foreign exchange required must be surrendered when purchasing foreign exchange for paymen ts in respect of most imports and most invisibles. The Central Bank deals in certificates for up to four mon ths forward, at Cey Rs 66 selling and Cey Rs 64 buy ing per Cey Rs 100 certificate; trans- actions are permitted only when re la t ing to anticipated genuine paymen ts and receipts in foreign exchange to which the certificate requirements or privileges are applicable. The official exchange rate is applicable to receipts from major exports and to payments for most staple food items, fertilizers, and certain other imports classi- fied as essentials, as well as some invisibles. Exchange rates for certain foreign currencies other th an sterling, inc lud ing the U. S. do l lar, are determined by the Central Bank from t ime to time on the basis of London ma rket rates for those currencies (except in the case of the Ind i an rup e e ). Rates for other foreign cur- rencies are determined by commercial banks, also on the basis of London m a rk et rates. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the Ceylon rupee rema ined pegged to sterling, which continued to float. Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon, as agent of the Government. A foreign exchange budget, including an import program, is drawn up annually by the Ministry of Planning and Employment. All remit- tances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must be made through banks authorized to carry out operations in for- eign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Licenses for most imports of the industrial sector, both private and public, are issued by the Actual Users Divi- sion of the Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs. Otherwise, import and export licensing is handled by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency Sri Lanka has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U . K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Payments to countries that prior to June 23, 1972 were Scheduled Territories may continue to be made in the currencies of such countries, and receipts from such countries continue to be acceptable in the currencies of such countries. Settlements w i th ten countries with which Sri Lanka has bilateral payments agreements,1 with Egypt, and (for certain transactions only) with Pakistan must be made through the relevant special accounts. Payments to all other countries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Ceylon rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the cur- rency of the creditor coun try. Furthermore, payments for imports not originating in countries with which bilateral paymen ts agreements are in force (nor in Rhodesia) may be made in any foreign currency, i.e., any currency other than the Ceylon rupee. Receipts from all other countries except Rhodesia may be accepted in sterling or Ceylon rupees f rom a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, in any prescribed currency ,2 or in any other External Account Area currency marke tab le in the United King- dom, i.e., freely exchangeable for sterling. Transactions involving deviations f rom the general procedures require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Spe- cial procedures apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia. 1 Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Poland, Romania, Syrian Arab Republic, and U. S. S. R. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Franch francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA Nonresident Accounts Non res ident accounts may be held in Sri Lanka by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. Trans- fers of balances in these accounts to Sterling Area Accounts or Ex ternal Accoun ts require approva l. Blocked Accounts are used for ho ld ing f u n ds that may not be t ran s fe r red abroad and that are owned by nonres iden ts, repa t r ia tes, and em ig ran t s. Such f u n d s, un less they or ig ina te f rom p a ym en ts for impor ts, may be used in Sri Lanka for prescribed inves tmen ts. Pro- ceeds f r om the l i q u i d a t i on of such inve s tmen ts must be credited to B locked Accoun ts. Also re ta ined in Blocked Accoun ts is a p ropo r t ion of local cu r rency ea rn ing s, derived f r om the exhibition of fore ign-owned films, if the tak ings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such re ta ined f u n ds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, inc lud ing the mak ing of films in Sri Lanka. Special Accounts may be ma in ta ined in Sri Lanka by nationals of Sri Lanka work ing abroad. Credits to the accounts are l im i ted to the proceeds of rem i t tances f rom abroad but the accounts may be f ree ly debited for pay- ments w i th in Sri Lanka and income f rom the accounts or approved investments purchased from the accoun ts is exempt from income tax. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for imports by the Food Commissioner's Department and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts of up to Cey Rs 250, and books up to certain specified amoun ts for each consign- ment), all imports require individual licenses. All imports are subject to quota restrictions. They are divided into two groups —the A category and the B cate- gory. Imports in the A category broadly comprise basic necessities, Western pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, books and periodicals, two-wheeled tractors, and tea factory machinery (provided it is financed by the loan from the Asian Development B a n k ). The B category includes all remaining imports. The value and composition of imports are established by an annual import program. Imports of many nonessential or locally produced items are either prohibited or considerably restricted. The right to import is restricted to government depart- ments, government-sponsored corporations, and regis- tered importers, although private individuals are allowed to import certain commodities for their own use, subject to special authorization. Imports of specified commodi- ties 3 are restricted to government or state corporations, the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment, or Lanka Salu 3 These include rice, wheat, flour (except corn flour), un re f ined sugar, refined sugar, Maldive fish, dried fish, cum in seed, masoor dhal, dried chilies, coriander, pulses, yeast and baking powder, garlic, fennel seed, mathe seed, turmeric, dates, sultanas and raisins, cement, fish meal, corn, caustic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper produc ts, petroleum p roduc ts, and textiles and m anu f a c tu r es of textile materials. 430 Sala Ltd.; these are re fe r red to as "reserved items." In order to allocate foreign exchange, app l ican ts for import licenses are divided in to three groups: ( 1) ac tual users of indu s t r ial raw ma ter ia ls, mach ine ry, etc., (2) those who impo rt other goods for the ir own use and not for resale, and ( 3) established impo r te rs who impo rt goods for t r ad ing purposes. Pub l ic sector impo r ts shipped or transsh ipped f r om places served by vessels of the Ceylon S h i p p i ng Co rpo ra t ion mu st be carr ied in vessels owned or cha r te red by the Co rpo ra t ion, wh en ev er such ship- p ing space is av a i l ab l e. An au tho r ized dea ler may app rove an app l ica t ion to r em it fo re ign exchange or to cred it a nonres ident account wh en the app l icant f u r n i s h e s, or under takes to f u r n i s h, evidence of impo r ta t ion and the cost of the goods together w i th a va l id impor ter's copy and an exchange con trol copy of the impo rt license. Payment for impo r ts in the B category requ ires, in addition to the rupee equ iv a l ent of the foreign exchange involved, su r render of cer t if ica tes w i th a face v a lue equal to the rupee p aym en t; imports in the A category do not require the su r render of certificates. Impo rt licenses for certain impo r ts are sub ject to a m i n im um deferred payment term. Letters of credit aga in st such licenses may be opened prov ided th at d r a f ts are d rawn payab le not ear- lier than six or twelve months af ter the shipment in accordance w i th the terms of the impo rt license. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles requ ire exchange control permission and, w i th cer ta in exceptions, require surren- der of certificates corresponding to the fu ll amount of the foreign paymen t. Exempt from surrender of certifi- cates are (1) certain official t ravel expenditures abroad,4 (2) expenditures for certain approved courses of study abroad, (3) rem i t tances abroad by nonna t iona ls for fam i ly ma in tenance, (4) certain prov ident fund contri- butions and l i fe insurance prem iums, (5) pensions and the final rem i t tance, on retirement, of provident and pension fund s, (6) expenditures of fo re ign embassies, official in te rna t ional organizations, and foreign diplo- matic personnel, and (7) other expend i tures abroad spe- cifically exempted f r om the certificate surrender require- ment by the Controller of Exchange. The remittance of life insurance premiums on policies in foreign currencies purchased by nonnationals residing temporarily in Sri Lanka is permitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets available to them on retirement. Foreign exchange for personal travel abroad is only granted for fu r loughs of nonnationals. Business travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of exports and of tourism, and exchange up to a maximum of <£ stg. 10 a day for a max imum period of 30 days is allowed in such cases. 4 When met out of the budget allocations for a government depart- ment or ministry, a state corporation, or an in s t i tu t ion exempt f r om the opera t ion of the cer t if ica te scheme. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange for e d u c a t i o n al expenses is made ava i lab le on ly for ce r ta in courses of s tudy that w i ll be of posi- tive va lue to the coun try and that are not available in Sri Lanka. For s tudy in educa t ional ins t i tu t ions in "Asian group" coun t r ies ,5 exchange up to a m ax imum of Cey Rs 450 a mon th is a l lowed. For s tudy in the Un i ted K ingdom, fo re ign exchange is made available at <£ stg. 45 a mon th for und e rg r adu a te studies, and £ stg. 60 a mon th for po s tg radua te s tud ies, plus ac tual fees and cost of books. For s tudy in educa t ional insti- tu t ions elsewhere (o ther t h an the United States and C a n a d a ), the m ax imum a l lowab le is £ stg. 53 for u n d e r g r a d u a te and £ stg. 70 for pos tg radua te studies; the m ax imum for the Un i ted States and Canada is US$225 and US$240 for u n d e r g r a d u a te and postgradu- ate studies, respec t ive ly. For t ravel and o ther expenses for medical reasons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is produced from a medical specialist in Sri Lanka and supported by the Director of Health Services that equa l ly effec t ive treat- ment cannot be ob ta ined in Sri L ank a; the amount authorized w i ll depend on the estimated cost, as certified by the specialist. Ind ian and Pak i s tani n a t ion a ls are permitted to remit for f am i ly ma in tenance a m ax imum of Cey Rs 750 a month or one th ird of the ir gross mon th ly income, whichever is less. Other fore ign na t iona ls are permitted to rem it £ stg. 85 a mon th for a w i fe, £ stg. 80 for a boy in a public school, £ stg. 70 for a girl in a public school, £ stg. 60 for a child in a prepara tory school, £ stg. 25 for other ch i ldren, and £ stg. 45 a month less mon th ly income abroad for an employed child, up to a max imum of two th irds of the gross monthly income when dependents are direct ones. For other dependents, th is ceiling is one third of the gross monthly income. When the amount claimed on th is basis exceeds one third of the gross mon th ly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory t rans fer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon depa r tu re. Temporary residents on short-term con- tracts are allowed to remit up to two th irds of their gross mon th ly income. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted exchange for f am i ly remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are perm i t ted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Ceylon. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of en t ry; they may not take out Sri Lanka currency notes and coins. Resi- dents may take out Sri Lanka or foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equ iva lent of Cey Rs 50 5 The "Asian group" is listed as Aden, Afghan is tan, the East Afr ican region, Brunei, Bu rma, Egypt, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pak is tan, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Arab ia, Syrian Arab Republic, Thai- land, and Turkey. SRI LANKA a person (Cey Rs 25 for ch i ld ren und er 12) once in 12 mon ths, provided that they have been g ran ted travel exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. Perm i ts issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all com- mercial exports, and exports to countries w i th wh ich Sri Lanka ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. The export of some items is banned, and that of certain others requires export licenses issued by the relevant government agency. Rubber exports to ma in land China, Poland, Romania, and the U. S. S. R. are under state t rad ing. The State Gem Corporation has the exclusive right to export gems and exports of pr iva te exporters are handled by the Corporation. Re-exports of non- mone tary gold, silver, and d iamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the permit for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fa ir value for the goods has been or will be received in Sri Lanka by approved methods of pay- ment and, usually, w i th in four mon ths from the date of shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered. There are special arrangements, how- ever, for exports of gems. Exporters of gems may main- tain special accounts, designated "Convertible Rupee Accounts —Gem Exports." These may be credited with 25 per cent of the f.o.b. Ceylon rupee value (inclusive of foreign exchange certificates) of the net export pro- ceeds of gems. Debits to the accounts are permitted for imports, travel abroad, and other payments which are not of a capital nature .6 Exporters of all goods other than tea (including instant tea ), rubber, coconut oil, copra, dessicated coco- nu t, and fresh coconuts are entitled to receive certifi- cates with a face value in Ceylon rupees equal to the f.o.b. value of exports, upon surrender to an authorized bank of the foreign exchange actually earned. Exporters can use these certificates as supporting documents when buying foreign exchange for payment of imports, or for other payments abroad, which require the surrender of certificates. Certificates are freely transferable within 30 days from the date of issue; they have to be surren- dered to the monetary authorities or an authorized bank 6 On February 20, 1973 it was announced that retroactive to Janu- ary 1, 1973 the scheme was extended to all earnings in convertible currencies f rom the following: (1) Exports (except black tea in bulk, crepe, sheet, and scrap rubber, coconut oil, desiccated coconut, copra, fresh coconuts, and coconut fiber); 2 per cent of the f.o.b. Ceylon rupee va lue (inclusive of Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certifi- cates, where applicable) of their export proceeds could be credited to Convertible Rupee Accounts. (2) Tourism, with 2 per cent of the gross foreign exchange earnings eligible for credit to such accounts. (3) Earnings by individuals f rom the export of their paintings, sculpture, and other original and individual works of art, and from the export of their writings, scientific, and other material for publication, with 25 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings eligible for credit. (4) Earnings from professional and consultative services rendered by individuals, w i th 25 per cent of the foreign exchange earn ings eligible for credit. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA before the expiry of that period. Certificates are not transferab le thereaf ter, but the holders can use them when mak ing foreign exchange paymen ts w i th in seven months from the date of issue; at the end of the seven- month period, the validity of the certificate lapses. Exporters of precious stones receive, in addition to cer- tificates as indicated above, licenses to import raw mate- rials (other than gold) for the jewelry industry corre- sponding to 25 per cent of their export receipts, unless they avail themselves of the right to have part of their export earnings credited to the special accounts men- tioned above. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Receipts under the following headings entitle the recipient to obtain certificates with a face value equivalent to the value of the foreign exchange surrendered to an authorized bank: (1) travel receipts; (2) insurance receipts; (3) investment income; (4) private transfers and donations; (5) small savings remitted to Sri Lanka by workers ab ro ad ;7 (6) miscellaneous other inward remittances as determined, on a case-by-case basis, by the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident trav- elers are eligible to receive certificates corresponding to the amount of foreign exchange converted with author- ized dealers; alternatively, the latter may pay the trav- eler, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange sold, the cash value of the certificate.8 A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his hold- ings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign f u n ds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Sri Lanka, Ind ian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; however Sri Lanka notes in denomi- nations of Cey Rs 10 or less may be imported up to Cey Rs 50, provided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in w i thout restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in proj- ects wh ich are specifically approved by the Governmen t, or, where the capital is d rawn f rom a Blocked Account in Sri Lanka, in prescribed Ceyloncse investments, including shares of public companies incorporated in Sri Lanka; cap i tal t rans fe rs for direct investment in Sri Lanka are entitled to receive certificates upon con- version of the foreign exchange in to rupees. Proceeds from the sale or l i q u i d a t i on of inve s tmen ts in approved projects other than investments made f rom Blocked Accounts may be repatriated, along w i th capital appre- ciation; t rans fe rs requ ire surrender of certificates. Pro- ceeds from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested in prescribed invest- ments; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are con- sidered and approved by the Foreign Investment Advi- sory Committee of the Ministry of P lann ing and Employment are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Inves tmen ts abroad by resi- dents are not norma l ly permitted. Resident-owned securities on wh ich the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (e i ther contractually or at the option of the ho ld e r) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, if directed by the Central Bank, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Minister of Finance. Emigrants are not perm i t ted capital remittances except on grounds of dire ha rdsh ip. Subject to prescribed limits, the transfer of the ir net income is allowed for one year from the date of emigration, after deduction of any income being earned abroad, if the emigrant is under 55 years of age. If the emigrant is over 55 years of age or has acquired foreign citizenship, net income may be t rans fe r red, within certain limits, even a f ter one year. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the coun try of the ir permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of the ir departure, to transfer assets represent- ing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government from time to time. For persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka, the capital they or ig ina l ly brought into the coun try plus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be transferred, subject to certain limits. Transfer of personal assets and of income thereon requires surren- der of certificates; exempt are (1) balances on provident and pension f u n ds held abroad and representing contri- butions in respect of contractual obligations entered into before May 6, 1968, (2) provident and pension funds held in rupees in Sri Lanka, and (3) the va lue of insur- ance policies held abroad and taken out before May 6, 1968. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, app ly to Ind ian families r e tu rn ing to India. Gold 7 Since December 17, 1971 Ceylonese emp loyed abroad and not ava i l ing themselves of the "special accounts" scheme for small sav- ings in troduced on F eb ru a ry 6, 1971 may be requ i red to rem it to Sri Lanka a specified percen tage of the ir a n n u al ea rn ings, if these exceeded specified amoun ts. Compliance may be r equ i r ed to ob ta in annual passport renewal. The f u n ds remitted are en t i t led to Foreign Exchange En t i t l em ent Certificates upon conversion but may not be used for impo r ts or paymen ts abroad. 8 See also foo tno te 6. Impo r ts and expor ts of gold in any fo rm require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports w i th the approval of the Cen t ral Bank. Such licenses are not no rma l ly g ran ted except for imports and exports by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry authorities. The People's Bank is the sole importer of gold. It sells gold in small 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution quantities to licensed craftsmen and jewelers; the price charged at the end of 1972 was the equivalent of US$38 an ounce (calculated at Cey Rs 6.39 per U. S. do l la r ). Small quantities are also sold to hospitals. Com- mercial imports of jewelry and of other articles contain- ing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1972 January 19. The Central Bank changed the parity rate for sterling from Cey Rs 15.1649 to Cey Rs 15.4093 per <£ stg. 1. The rate for the U .S. dollar was main- tained unchanged at Cey Rs 5.9524 = US$1. On February 9, the sterling rate was changed to Cey Rs 15.4989 = <£ stg. 1 and the U. S. dollar rate remained unchanged at Cey Rs 5.9524 = US$1. On March 9, the sterling rate was changed to Cey Rs 15.60 - <£ stg. 1, while the U .S. dollar rate remained at Cey Rs 5.9524 = US$1. February 3. The Sri Lanka State Trading (Consoli- dated Exports) Corporation was established. February 10. A system of blanket licenses for the export of teas to the London auctions was introduced in order to expedite shipments, a single license providing cover for several shipments. Such licenses were issued by the exchange control authorities. February 16. It was announced that cars could hence- for th be imported as gifts, but only where the bene- ficiary was a close relative of the donor. An import license was required, and the import would be subject to normal import du ty. February 17. Consequent on a government decision that all imports by government departments, corpora- tions, statutory boards and government-controlled trad- ing companies, from places served by vessels of the Ceylon Shipping Corporation (or by ships chartered by i t ), should be carried by vessels of the Corporation, unless shipping space was not available, authorized dealers were informed that all letters of credit in respect of such imports should contain a clause in the following terms: "Ceylon Shipping Corporation Bill of Lading or Ceylon Sh ipp ing Corporation Waiver." On March 1, authorized dealers were informed that this requirement was applicable only to imports shipped or transshipped from Liverpool, London, An twe rp, Ro t terdam, Bremen, and Hamburg. March 1. The Registration of Sh ipp ing Agencies Act came into operation. All shipping agencies wholly or partly owned by non-Ceylonese were Ceylonized. March 8. A new state enterprise, the Sri Lanka State Trading (Tea) Corporation, was established and made responsible for the purchasing, warehousing, packaging, and marketing of tea for the domestic market. It could also under take export transactions, subject to authoriza- tion of the Ministry of Trade. March 22. Gifts with a c.i.f. value of over Cey Rs 1,000, including automobiles and other motor vehicles, could no longer be imported into Sri Lanka. SRI LANKA Gifts of up to Cey Rs 250 in value could be freely im- ported without a license, except gifts of sarees and certain other textile items, which could be imported up to that value as part of the baggage of an incoming passenger. Gifts valued at over Cey Rs 250 and up to Cey Rs 1,000 could be allowed, subject to an import license; a license fee of 25 per cent would be charged in addition to normal customs duties (150 per cent ad valorem for banned import items). March 27. Authorized dealers were required not to allow remittances for the import of books and periodi- cals except on the basis of the prices marked on such publications. April 3. Authorized dealers were permitted to issue licenses for exports of tea to the London auctions by Ceylon Rupee Companies, provided an undertaking, as in the case of exports by Sterling Plantation Companies, was furnished that the proceeds of sale would be remitted to Sri Lanka w i th in a prescribed period. April 6. Exporters were required to arrange for bills of lading to be made out either to the order of an authorized dealer, or to the order of the exporter, but immediately thereafter endorsed by the exporter in favor of an authorized dealer, and to be delivered direct to the authorized dealer by the shipping agent. This was in amendment of previous instructions whereunder the bills of lad ing were required to be made out only to the order of an authorized dealer in Sri Lanka. April 19. Authorized dealers were informed tha t, with effect from Ju ly 1, 1972, all fre ight in respect of cargoes of tea being consigned for sale at the London auctions should be prepaid in Sri Lanka. May 13. Authorized dealers were requested to call for the production of customs stamped invoices, as proof of import, before exchange was released in respect of books, newspapers, and periodicals dispatched by bulk post af ter April 30, 1972. June 20. Foreign diplomatic personnel and staff of in terna t ional agencies, when converting foreign currency into Ceylon rupees, hencefor th were entitled to Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates only when holding a valid visit visa or "permit to land" endorsement. June 23. Sri Lanka ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. July 1. Export licenses for coconut products hence- forth were issued by the Coconut Marketing Board. July 10. The Ceylon rupee, which on November 8, 1971 had been repegged from sterling to the U.S. dol- lar, was again pegged to the pound sterling, at Cey Rs 15.60 = <£ stg. 1, the parity rate that had been quoted by the Central Bank since March 9, 1972. The buy ing and selling spot rates for U. S. dollars and Indian rupees were to be quoted by the Central Bank on the basis of London market quotations for these currencies. The Central Bank's parity rate for the U. S. dollar, which since November 8, 1971 had been Cey Rs 5.95237 = US$1, became Cey Rs 6.3953 = US$1. The Central Bank's parity rate for the Indian 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA to from Cey Rs 0.8224 rupee was changed Cey Rs 0.8298. July 11. Twenty-five per cent of the net foreign exchange earnings f rom the export of gems was made available to exporters, at the ir option, for use by them- selves for imports, travel abroad, and other payments not of a capital nature. Authorized dealers were permitted to open a new type of account, "Convertible Rupee Accounts —Gem Exports" in the names of exporters of gems. These accounts could be credited, a f ter the entire export pro- ceeds had been received in Sri Lanka, with 25 per cent of the f.o.b. Ceylon rupee value, inclusive of Foreign Exchange En t i t lement Certificates, of the net export proceeds of gems. Debits in payments for imports were permitted only for imports made by the account holder against import licenses issued to him by the Controller of Imports and Exports and endorsed "Nontransferable and payment from convertible rupee account only." The accounts could not be overdrawn. July 20. The Government issued a policy statement on new private foreign investment in Sri Lanka, detail- ing certain assurances and privileges available to foreign investors. July 21. The list of prescribed investments that may be purchased with blocked funds of nonresidents was widened by the inclusion of fixed or savings deposits with the National Savings Bank, and of annuity policies issued by the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. August 12. Exchange facilities provided to expatriates of the non-Asian group of countries were revised, with effect from January 1, 1972. New allowances were set for the education of children in public schools, furlough travel, repatriation of assets, and phased annual remit- tances. September 28. Payments for imports, except when originating in countries with which bilateral payments arrangements were in force, could henceforth be made in any foreign currency. Previously, imports from Ster- ling Area countries normally were settled in Sterling Area currencies only. November 11. The price of Foreign Exchange Entitle- ment Certificates was increased from Cey Rs 55 to Cey Rs 65 per certificate with a face value of Cey Rs 100, resulting in a depreciation of the effective exchange rate in the certificate market from Cey Rs 24.18 = <£ stg. 1 to Cey Rs 25.74 = ,£ stg. 1. November / / .A number of import items, payments for which previously were effected at the official exchange rate, were transferred to the certificate market. Imports for which payments would continue to be made at the official exchange rate were ma in ly (1) rice, wheat grain, wheat flour, baby m i lk foods, dhal, dried fish, coriander, and cumin seed; (2) fertilizers, books, news- papers, periodicals, maps, charts, and two-wheeled trac- tors and implements and spares therefor; (3) raw mate- rials, pack ing materials, machinery, equipment, and spares required for the manu fac tu re or processing of fertilizer, wheat flour, and baby milk foods; and (4) cur- rency notes and coins imported by the Central Bank or commercial banks. November 16. Imports of tea factory equipment financed under a loan from the Asian Development Bank were shifted from the certificate market to the official market. November 21. Imports of drugs, raw materials, and packing materials became exempt from the surrender of Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates, provided that they were intended for use in the local manufacture of drugs and that they had been shipped on or before November 10. (On January 4, 1973 this exemption was extended permanently to imports of Western drugs and of raw materials and packing materials for such drugs.) December 7. Exports of green tea with an f.o.b. price of over Cey Rs 3.00 a pound were transferred from the par value market to the certificate market. December 13. The Exchange Control (Amendmen t) Law No. 14 of 1972 was enacted. The legal effect of this law was to insert in the Exchange Control Act a new part V-A dealing with offenses. 434 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System * The par v a lue is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound. The effec t ive parity re la t ionsh ip for the U .S. do l lar is LSd 1 = US$2.87156. Off ic ial rates for transac t ions in U. S. do l lars are established daily by the Bank of Sudan ( the cen tral b a n k ), whose rates for transac t ions w i th au thor ized b anks and the Govern- ment on December 30, 1972 were US$2.875877 buy- ing, and US$2.867268 selling, per LSd 1. An effec t ive exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 is applied to all exchange t ran sac t ions o ther t h an the purchase of pro- ceeds f rom exports of cotton and gum arabic, to which the exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87 con t inues to apply, as a resu lt of the application of exchange taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per U . S. d o l l ar to the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87. Administration of Control Exchange con trol is adm in is tered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by author- ized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of National Econ- omy, but all reg is tra t ion forms and licenses must be validated by the exchange control authorities (Bank of Sudan ). Import paymen ts and other foreign payments are approved w i th in the framework of an annual for- eign exchange budget that is d rawn up jo in t ly by the Ministry of Na t ional Economy, the Bank of Sudan, and the M in is try of the Treasury. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral countries 1 are normally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Suda- nese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most non- commercial invisibles except those payable to E g y p t2 have to be settled outside these accounts. Paymen ts to all other countries and monetary areas (the "converti- ble area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any non- resident account or in any convertible or externally convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats are allowed to maintain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated as nonresident accounts. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the Sudan ma in ta ined unchanged the effec- tive par i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U. S. dollar. JT he Sudan has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements w i th Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Egyp t, Hungary, India, and Poland. - Paymen ts to Egypt for Suez Canal dues must be made in con- vertible currencies, and most proceeds from exports of invisibles to Egypt must be received in convertible currencies. All other paymen ts are settled through the bilateral account. These accounts must be credited w i th convertible cur- rencies. Other foreign personnel working in the Sudan under certain contracts, as well as foreign nationals residing in the Sudan, may m a in t a in Deposit Accounts in Sudanese pounds. Blocked Accoun ts are ma in ta ined by former resi- dents; ea rn ings accru ing to these accounts may be used w i th in the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to l im i ts established in each case by the exchange control au thor i t ies. Except for the crediting of interest, all deb i ts and credits to Blocked Accoun ts requ i re approva l. Imports and Import Payments Certain impo r ts are prohibited for protective reasons and o thers are not being licensed. Imports f rom Israel, Por tuga l, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica also are pro- h ib i ted. Permitted imports generally are licensed or accepted for registration in accordance with allocations under the foreign exchange budget. Sugar is imported by a state agency only. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the Ministry of National Economy and endorsed ( f r a n k e d) by the Exchange Control Department of the central bank. "Nil" licenses, which also require f rank ing, are issued for certain imports financed with foreign exchange held abroad by residents. Most imports are subject to advance deposit requirements and a surcharge of 5 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. va lue of all imports. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require licenses. Remit- tances are permitted for family maintenance (up to LSd 500 a person a y e a r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 840 a student a year for Europe, in addition to tuition fees; study in the United States is exempt from this ce i l ing), and for certain other purposes. Allow- ances for tourist travel to countries other than Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maxi- mum of LSd 60 every other year for each adult travel- ing to Western Europe and the United States, and LSd 50 every other year for travel to other areas. Allowances for nonbusiness travel to Egypt, however, are the equiva- lent of LSd 50 an adult, and LSd 30 a child, a year and are authorized by the commercial banks. Exchange for travel (other than travel for educational purposes or medical trea tmen t, business travel, or official travel) must be purchased at an effec t ive exchange rate of US$2.50 per LSd 1. Sudanese nationals resident abroad who remit for- eign exchange to Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 may at the same rate obtain foreign exchange equivalent to 75 per cent of the amount con- verted in any one year and use this exchange to make 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN personal remittances abroad. Sudanese Government officials (other than seconded s ta f f) and students receiv- ing educational allowances at the official rate are not entitled to avail themselves of this arrangement. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in the Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Portu- gal, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Shipping charges, insur- ance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presenta- tion of the required documents. The remittance of income accruing from blocked assets in the Sudan (including income from Blocked Accounts) is pro- hibited, except for earnings f rom investments in gov- ernment securities made before 1970. The exportation of Sudanese currency is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually all pay- ments for invisibles. The duty is LSd 10 on applica- tions for remittances of profits and dividends, LSd 5 on applications for other transfers and for foreign exchange for business travel, LSd 2 on applications for foreign exchange for other travel, and from LSd 1 to LSd 0.25 on applications for remittances for other purposes; government remittances and those by diplo- mats are exempt. For certain payments for invisibles there may be delays in making the foreign exchange available; at the end of 1972 there were arrears relating to the transfer of profits and dividends. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of exports of domestic products in short supply, which are subject to individual licensing, exports do not require a license. Exporters must, however, submit an export form to an authorized bank. Authorized banks may approve these forms only if payment is in the form of cash against documents or against sight letters of credit; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. Banks are also held responsible for checking export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repa- triated and surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against docu- ments or sight le t t ter of credit, proceeds must be sur- rendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Most major export commodities are exported solely by pub- lic sector entities. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals resident abroad other than govern- ment officials or students may remit foreign exchange to the Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50. Receipts f rom abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are sub- ject to the general prescription of currency require- ments. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted 436 by their regulations to be taken out of those countries. However, the importation of Sudanese currency is for- bidden. Capital Under the Development and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act, 1972, which superseded the Organiza- tion and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act of 1967, incoming foreign capital for industrial invest- ment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon emigration f rom the Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in the Sudan domestically produced gold. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Sudan; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reim- ported. Changes during 1972 March 11. An effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 was applied to all exchange transactions other than the purchase of proceeds from exports of cotton and gum arabic, to which the exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87 continued to be applied. The exchange rate modification was implemented through the appli- cation of exchange taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per U. S. dollar to the rate of LSd 1 - US$2.87. The existing exchange taxes on certain payments for, and receipts f rom, current invisibles were adjusted to yield the effec t ive rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50. March 11. The import surcharge was reduced from 15 per cent to 5 per cent on the c.i.f. value. April. Certain imports were permitted to be financed with foreign exchange held abroad by residents. Licenses for such imports were referred to as "nil" licenses. May 1. Unless otherwise authorized by the Ministry of Economics and Trade, all insurance on public and private sector imports had to be taken out with local insurance companies. August 30. The Development and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act, 1972 was promulgated. It superseded the Organization and Promotion of Indus- trial Investment Act, 1967. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Exchange Rate System* The par value is 0.457587 gram of fine gold per Surinam Guilder, which corresponds to Sur. f. 1.94208 = SDR 1 or Sur. f. 1.78876 = US$1. Surinam has availed itself of wider margins. The fixed official rates for the U .S. dollar are Sur. f. 1.77 buying, and Sur. f. 1.80 selling, per US$1. There are also fixed official buy ing and selling rates of Sur. f. 1.75 and Sur. f. 1.80 for U .S. banknotes. The rates for other foreign currencies, including the Ne ther lands guilder,1 are set by the Central 'Bank of Surinam on the basis of the daily quotations for those currencies against the U. S. dollar in Amsterdam and the fixed buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar in Surinam, net of any commissions. There is no exchange market in Sur inam. Administration of Control In principle, all foreign exchange dealings are subject to license, as are dealings between residents and non- residents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The au thor i ty to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of this au thor i ty and issues licenses mainly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has authorized the Director of Economic Affa irs (or, on his behalf, the Head of the Import, Export, and Foreign Exchange Division of the Ministry of Economic Affairs) to issue import and export licenses, and has empowered the Central Bank of Su r inam to provide fore ign exchange for import payments (sub ject to presentation of an import license); the latter au thor i ty is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to pro- vide foreign exchange for specified current paymen ts without requ ir ing an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the tak ing up of foreign loans is subject to Foreign Exchange Board approval. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange w i thout requiring the sub- mission of an exchange license by the remittor. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Surinam guilders between Surinam and foreign countries other than the Ne ther lands An t i l les are not permitted; they mus t, in general, be * Fo l low ing the a n n o u n c em e nt on F e b r u a ry 12, 1973 t h at the U. S. dollar was be ing d ev a lu ed, S u r i n am w i th e f fect f rom F e b r u a ry 19 established a c e n t r al r a te of Su r. f. 1.78876 = US$1, co r re spond ing to Sur. f. 2.15787 = SDR 1. S u r i n am c o n t i n u ed to ava il i tse lf of w id er m a r g i n s. 1 All currencies other than the Su r in am gu i ld er are cons idered for- eign currencies. made in convertible currencies 2 although payments to and from the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Netherlands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Pay- ments to and f rom the U. S. S. R. must be made through accounts in Netherlands guilders kept w i th authorized banks in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U. S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and debits for certain specified purposes must not exceed a total of Sur. f. 3,000 a month. Authorized banks have also been granted a general license permit- ting them to open nonresident accounts in Surinam guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.3 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Imports of a few other commodities are prohibited from non-EEC sources for protective reasons and sub- ject to quota when originating in EEC countries; they include coffee (roasted and unroasted), sugar, powdered m i lk, bu t ter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal furn i- ture. The import of prohibited goods may be allowed when there is a need for them, provided that they cannot be obtained in Surinam. Another group of com- modities are subject to quota, irrespective of origin; these include matches, prefabr ica ted wooden houses, cer- tain women's wear, certain footwear, and certain wooden or cane f u r n i t u r e. Special conditions are attached to the import of copra, rice, bu t ter (in packs of over 500 grams), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 grams), veneer, and fu rn i tu re that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for protective reasons but the issuance of licenses is subject to adm in is tra t ive decision rather than to quota. All other impo r ts are licensed freely from any source. The import license serves as a pay- ment license, exchange being made available upon 2 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kro- ner, deutsche ma rk, East Caribbean dollars, French f ranc s, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Jama ica dollars, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Norweg ian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f ranc s, T r in idad and Tobago dollars, and U. S. dollars. :! However, two spec i f ied m i n i ng compan ies do not need l icenses for the ir own import requ i remen t s. S im i lar exemp t ions may be g ran ted to foreign companies for the ir indu s t r ial ac t iv i t ies in Su r in am, provided that they pay for t h e ir im p o r ts f rom th e ir own f o r e i gn exchange ho ld ings. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM presen ta t ion of the license. Most licenses have a va l id i ty of six months, w i th in which period the goods must be landed and paid for. ma in ta in current accoun ts in foreign currency w i th their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts ( inc lud ing export proceeds). Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require ind iv idual licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have au tho r i ty to prov ide fo re ign exchange up to Sur. f. 100 an item a mon th on account of cer ta in services (advertising expenses, bank charges, legal fees, membersh ip dues, copy and patent rights, and so fo r th ); up to Sur. f. 300 a year f rom each rem i t tor in respect of g if ts, subject to a l im it of Sur. f. 300 a year on any benef ic iary's receipt of g i f ts f rom Sur inam residents; and up to Sur. f. 555-750 a mon th for the support of the rem i t ter's own f am i ly in the Netherlands Antilles or the Netherlands ( f am i ly remittances up to the same amoun ts to other coun tr ies requ ire a license, which is granted upon app l ica t ion ). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 500-2,000 a person for each trip (50 per cent of these amoun ts for children under 14), depending on the d e s t i n a t i o n ;4 the au tho r ized bank mu st en ter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being permitted un t il three days before depa r tu re. Travelers may take out a max imum of Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign banknotes (including Netherlands currency) is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may freely purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of Sur. f. 250. Nonresi- dent travelers may also freely take out any foreign bank- notes they brought in, provided that amounts in excess of Sur. f. 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application sup- ported by an auditor's report is du ly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Export licenses for cattle and pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only after favorable advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Hus- bandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted and that of rice is subject to special regula- tions. Certain exporting companies have received spe- cial permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may br ing in fo re ign cu r rency w i thout l im i t, but not more than Sur. f. 100 in domestic cu r rency; resident travelers must su r r end er any fo r e ign cu r r en cy in excess of the equ iva- lent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A decision of the Foreign Exchange Board of Sep- tember 21, 1960 provides for the t r an s f er abroad of capital proceeds f rom the sale to residents or the l iqu ida t ion of f u l ly or pa r t ly foreign-owned companies or other fo rms of enterprise. The decision covers invest- ments made by nonresidents with fore ign capital a f ter July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of prof i ts and for the t r an s f er at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident en t rep reneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within a period of three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital or to have been lent to the firm and may only be t rans fe r red in annual quotas of 20 per cent. An Inves tment Law passed on Feb rua ry 3, 1960 pro- vides for add i t ional incentives to private investment in Surinam. The Foreign Exchange Board grants licenses on appli- cation for t rans fe rs abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a max imum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, fu r th er annual transfers are per- mitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows em igran ts (heads of fam i ly) to t ran s fer in fore ign exchange the equ iva lent of Sur. f. 5,000 in a lump sum and subsequently Sur. f. 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating fam i ly is permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sur. f. 10,000 plus 10 per cent of his total taxable earnings in Surinam accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinam assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sur. f. 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released within ten years. Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur- chase or sell in specified countries r> Su r inam corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment in Netherlands or other fore ign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinam interests will benefit. All borrowing from 4 Sur. f. 1,000 for the Caribbean area and Central and South America except Guyana, French Guyana, and Venezuela; Sur. f. 500 for Guyana and French Guyana; Sur. f. 2,000 for the United States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sur. f. 1,500 for the rest of the world. 5 Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Ne ther lands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution non re s iden ts by n o n b a nk res iden ts requ i res prior ap- proval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The fo re ign transac t ions of au tho r i z ed b anks are res tr ic ted, in pr inc i- ple, to those u n d e r t a k en for the account of the ir cus- tomers, and banks are required, in p r inc ip le, to su r ren- der to the Cen tral B ank any excess of fore ign cu r rency purchased over fo re ign cu r rency sold, but the Central Bank permits them to place pa rt of th e ir l iqu id f u n ds ab road and they h ave received a general license to place abroad at short term U. S. do l l a rs corresponding to the ba lances in non re s ident U. S. do l lar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Sur. f. 2 ,110 a k i log ram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms or at Sur. f. 1.80 a gram for unwo rked gold with an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 9 4% ,ooo -6 Authorized gold buy- ers are perm i t ted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices to the public for indus tr ial and artistic purposes; dea l ings between residents in gold bars and other fo rms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are proh ib i ted. As local production does not meet demand for indu s t r ial purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, which it sells to authorized gold buyers. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Surinam for num isma t ic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among them- selves and w i th other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and autho- rized indus tr ial and dental users are not allowed with- out special permission to hold or acquire gold in any " These am o u n ts are to be ad jus ted in accordance w i th the revision of the off ic ial U. S. dollar price per troy ounce. By the end of 1972 th is had not yet been done. SURINAM form other than nuggets, jewe lry, or coins at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require exchange licenses 7 issued by the Foreign Exchange Board; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities, producers of gold, and indus t r ial users. Residents a r r iv ing from abroad, however, may f ree ly br ing in gold, subject to declara- tion, and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank w i th in 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, sub ject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are du ty free and those of unwo rked gold are subject to a du ty of Sur. f. 0.0375 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general ta r i ff for gold ornaments is 60 per cent ad valorem, but those of EEC origin are subject to du ty at 50 per cent ad valorem. Imports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent and a licensing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1972 January 4. The Foreign Exchange Board reminded the public that fore ign means of payment and negoti- able paper or claims denominated in foreign currency could not be purchased or sold at exchange rates other than those published by the Central Bank, and that the same was applicable to the conversion f rom one cur- rency to another of payment obligations between resi- dents. June 1. The basic allocations for remittances to the Netherlands Antilles and the Netherlands in respect of support a n d / or educational expenditure were increased slightly in response to recent exchange rate adjustments and cost of living trends. 7 Import and export licenses are not requ ired since commodities are defined so as to exclude gold. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND Exchange and Trade System * Swaziland's currency is the South Afr ican Rand. The par va lue of the rand is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per rand, which corresponds to R 1 = SDR 1.17648 or R 1 = US$1.27732. Exchange rates are based on the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank's fixed rates for the U. S. dollar against rand (R 0.7809 buy ing, and R 0.7848 selling, per U. S. do l la r) and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U. S. dollar. Swaziland is treated under United Kingdom exchange control regulations as part of the Overseas Sterling Area, a l though it has ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Swaziland also forms part of the Rand Currency Area, which is a single exchange control terr i tory comprising Botswana, Lesotho, South Afr ica, and Swaziland. For purposes of exchange control over transactions in secu- rities or gold, residents of a member coun try of the latter area are not regarded as residents of another member coun try. The Ministry of Finance controls all external currency transactions. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Currency Area, and in principle these are uncon- trolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Currency Area, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, although Swaziland's treatment of certain capi- tal transfers to other countries of the Sterling Area may be more liberal. Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for ou tward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident for- eign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Au tho r i ty to approve some types of current paymen ts is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits; this is true, for example, of the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adu lt and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. There are no bilateral paymen ts arrangements. Swaziland is a member of a customs union with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs un ion. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quan t i ty of goods originating outside the customs un ion. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods direct from countries out- side the customs union, such imports are usually licensed in con fo rm i ty with South Africa's import regu- * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, South Africa decided to ma in ta in its par va lue in terms of gold. The Reserve Bank w i th effect f rom Febru- ary 14 quo ted fixed rates for the U.S. dollar of US$1.4229 buy ing, and US$1.4157 selling, per R 1. 440 lations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import paymen t. Certain exports are sub- ject to licensing, ma in ly for revenue and similar reasons, but most exports are in the first ins tance sold free of license in South A f r ica. Changes during 1972 February 18. The Land Speculation Control Act, 1972 proh ib i ted the sale or t ran s fer of land to non- citizens unless permission f rom the Land Control Board or an exemption f rom the Minister of Indus try, Mines, and Tourism or the Minister of Ag r icu l tu re had been obtained. June 23. Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland ceased to be Scheduled Territories of the Sterling Area in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. June 30. The existing relationship between the rand and the pound sterling was ma in ta ined. The South A f r ican Reserve Bank resumed exchange operations. Its fixed quotations for sterling, which had been floating since June 23, remained unchanged at .£100 = R 194.6955 ( b u y i n g) and £100 = R 196.1615 (sell- ing) . As a result, the rand began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, for which the pa r i ty relationship had been R 1 = US$1.33333. July 4. Following the application of exchange con- trol by the United Kingdom to the Overseas Sterling Area countries except Ireland, South Africa's exchange control regulations were amended. The regulations ceased to distinguish between Sterling Area and non- Sterling Area countries. Instead, they now distinguished between the Rand Currency Area (consisting of South Afr ica and Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland) and the Nonresident Area; the latter was defined in two ways: (a) in the application of the Securities Control Notices it consisted of all countries outside South A f r ica and (b) for all other purposes it consisted of all countries outside the Rand Currency Area (and thus excluded Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). A South A f r ican resident was defined as a person, whether of South A f r i c an or any other na t iona l i ty, who has taken up residence in, or is domiciled in, the Republic of South Afr ica. A nonresident was defined in two ways: (a) in the application of the Securities Control Notices, as a person whose no rmal place of residence or domicile is outside the Repub l ic of South Africa and (b) for all other purposes, as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Cur- rency Area. Thus, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland continued to be regarded as nonresidents for purposes of control over transactions in securities. Non- resident rand accounts were reclassified into three groups: Rhodesian, Nonresident, and Blocked Accounts; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND the reclassification involved the merging of Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts and their redesignation as Nonresident Accounts. October 24. A new par value was established and the rand ceased to float w i th sterling. The par value was changed f rom R 28.5000 to R 29.7500 per ounce of fine gold, corresponding to SDR 1.7648 per rand. In terms of U. S. dollars, the pa r i ty change was f rom R 1 = US$1.33333 to R 1 = US$1.27732; the latest ma rket rate for the U. S. dollar, however, had been R 1 = US$1.2190. The Reserve Bank of South A f r ica henceforth quoted fixed rates for the U. S. dollar instead of sterling. The off ic ial buy ing and selling rates were set at US$1.2806 and US$1.2742, respectively, per rand (R 0.7809 and R 0.7848, respectively, per U .S. do l la r ). The Bank's quotations for other ma jor currencies were based on their rates against the U. S. dollar in the London exchange marke t. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish Krona. A central rate of SKr 4.81290 = US$1 has been established, corresponding to SKr 5.22545 = SDR 1, and Sweden avails itself of wider margins. The Sveriges Riksbank stands ready to carry out trans- actions in U. S. dollars, the intervention currency, with authorized ("exchange") banks at the official limits of SKr 4.7050 buy ing and SKr 4.9200 selling, per US$1. The rate for the U .S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Practically all exchange transac t ions must be carried out by or through au thor ized banks. The d ifference between the authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the most impor tant currencies may not exceed that prescribed by the Riksbank for each of the cur- rencies in question. Au thor ized banks may buy f rom and sell to other au thor ized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another fore ign currency or Swedish kroner. Also, they may purchase, spot, from fore ign banks and other nonresidents fore ign currencies against any fo re ign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonres ident Accounts, be low ). They may sell, spot, to foreign banks and other non- residents fore ign currencies aga inst any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks fo rwa rd exchange transactions covering cur- rent paymen ts and au thor ized paymen ts for periods not exceeding ( 1) 24 mon ths in respect of receipts for exports, fre igh t, and charter services, (2) 24 months in respect of paymen ts for imports, f re igh t, and charter services, and ( 3) 6 mon ths in respect of other receipts and payments. Authorized banks may conclude forward t ransac t ions for a period not exceeding 12 months with other authorized banks, or, under certain conditions, with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions w i th residents. Forward market rates are le ft to the interplay of market forces. Sweden fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Ar t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom February 15, 1961. * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 th at the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Sweden with effect f rom February 15 changed its central rate to SKr 4.56 = US$1, equivalent to 0.161549 gram of fine gold per Swedish k rona. Sweden con t inued to avail itself of wider marg ins and changed the official limits for the U. S. dollar to SKr 4.4575 buy ing and SKr 4.6625 selling, per US$1. With e f fect f rom March 19, 1973 Sweden ma in ta ined a max imum marg in of 2.25 per cent for rates in exchange transactions between the Swedish k rona and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, the Luxembou rg f ranc, the Nether- lands gu i lder, and the Norwegian krone; no announced marg ins wou ld be ma in ta ined for o ther currencies. 442 Administration of Control Exchange controls are adm in is tered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board.1 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the R ik sbank. Authorized banks and some other au thor ized agencies imp lement the exchange con- trol regu la t ions. All current paymen ts are exempt f rom exchange con- trol, provided that they are made th rough the in ter- med iary of an au thor ized bank in accordance w i th the cu r rency prescr ip t ions issued by the R ik sbank. The au- thorized banks have been gran ted general licenses giv- ing them power to approve va r ious paymen ts that are still subject to exchange control. Impo rt and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the Na t ional Ag r icu l tu ral Market- ing Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of Eastern Ge rmany, with which there is a privately concluded compensation agreement, must in most cases be made by cred i t ing kronor to a Special Account related to t h at country. Receipts f rom Eas tern G e rm any may be accepted in any convertible cu r rency or in kronor th rough the Spe- cial Account of that coun t ry or th rough any Regular Account. Paymen ts to residents of other coun tr ies may be made in any fore ign currency or by c red i t ing kronor to any nonresident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Receipts f rom other coun tr ies may be accepted in any fore ign currency or in Swedish kronor debited to any Regu lar Accoun t. Nonresident Accounts There are two m a in types of non res ident accounts held in Swedish kronor w i th authorized banks in Sweden: Regu lar Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other non res ident accoun ts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kronor Accounts for Nonres iden ts Domi- ciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts may be held by res iden ts of all countries. These accounts may be credited w i th trans- fers from other Regular Accounts, w i th authorized pay- men ts to countries other th an Eas tern Ge rmany by resi- dents of Sweden, and with sales of any fo r e ign currency. They may be debited for t rans fe rs to any o ther Regu lar Account and for authorized paymen ts to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged in to any fore ign currency. The c r ed i t ing of Regu lar Accoun ts w i th pro- ceeds from sales of fo re ign currencies or w i th t rans fe rs 1 The Exchange Control Board has seven members. Four of them and the ir a l t e rn a t es are appo in t ed by the Gove rnmen t; the o ther members and the ir a l te rna tes are appo in ted by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges R ik sbank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution f rom o ther Regu lar Accounts may not resu lt in the cre- a t ion of abno rmal ba lances. Regu lar Accoun ts do not no rm a l ly bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held m a in ly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but who became nonresi- dents a f t er em ig r a t ing f rom that coun t ry. The accoun ts may be cred i ted w i th interest accrued to, and ea rn ings f rom, assets in Sweden, proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by account holders, and f u n ds trans- fe r red f rom abroad. Balances in Res tr ic ted Accounts may be used for paymen ts in Sweden for ma in tenance expenses of the account holder and his f am i ly; m inor me rchand i se purchases; taxes and other off ic ial charges; and expenses re la ted to the adm in is t ra t ion and ma in- tenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish k ronor and of real estate; and g i f ts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. Foreign Exchange Accounts - are held in foreign cur- rencies. Such accoun ts may be credited w i th author- ized paymen ts in fore ign currencies due to the account holder and w i th accrued interest. Balances on such accoun ts may be used for mak ing au thor ized paymen ts in foreign currenc ies to a res iden t. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited w i th t ran s fe rs f rom abroad of fore ign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accoun ts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for trans- fers to any nonres ident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other fo re ign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden may be ma in ta ined by banks and centers of ag r icu l tu ral credit associations. These accounts may be credited w i th paymen ts in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for w i thd rawa ls in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments All imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia. With the main exception of a few ag r icu l tu ral and fishery products, practically all goods are f ree f rom quan t i ta t ive restriction and import licensing when imported f rom countries other than ( 1) Japan and certain Pacific islands under U. S. control, and (2) Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. Most imports from countries in the second group, except Eastern Germany, are also liberal- ized. Most imports from Japan require licenses; these are in principle issued freely, except for a few specified commodities. Imports f rom certain countries of specified textiles and clothing are subject to specific licensing 2 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currenc ies. Such accoun ts may be credited w i th authorized receipts in fore ign currencies and with interest and debited for authorized pay- ments in foreign currencies. SWEDEN arrangemen ts. Technically, the exceptions to the liberali- zation regime are governed by "negative" lists. Imports not covered by the liberalization measures require ind iv idual licenses, some of which are gran ted in accord- ance with bilateral trade arrangements. Payments for imports, inc lud ing no rmal advance payments, may, as cu r rent payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the fo rma l i ty of presenting an import license. If the conditions specified for current paymen ts (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize fore ign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are con- sidered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments w i thout restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equiv- alent of SKr 100 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks. Life insurance premiums in excess of SKr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the Riksbank; such approval is normally given freely in respect of premiums on insurance policies contracted prior to 1969. For tourism, recreational travel, or s tudy abroad, residents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treatment. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or du ly acquired in, the country. No traveler may, however, w i thout specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except ships, scrap metals, and arms are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conform i ty with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ); however, all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited and all exports to Eastern Germany require licenses. Proceeds f rom exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a noninterest-bearing foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kroner. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles are sub ject to the same treat- ment as those f rom exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above ). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish bankno tes and coins, and un l im- ited amoun ts of other means of payment. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires ind iv idual authorization, which for industrial- ized countries normally is gran ted only if the investment is regarded as clearly to the benefit of the Swedish foreign exchange position and which, if the amount involved is exceptionally large, may be conditional on a substantial part being financed abroad at long term (at least ten yea rs ). Applications for direct investment in developing countries are treated more liberally. Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than SKr 40,000 for each fam i ly, subject to certain limitations regarding the cost of a lot and the time allowed for building on it; amounts up to SKr 75,000 may be approved where a recreational need is clearly established. A Swedish resident when emigrat- ing is, subject to verification by the Riksbank, permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000; a f ter one calendar year (beyond the year of em ig ra t ion ), he will normally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets. Only cases where the total assets exceed SKr 10 million are treated restrictively. When Swedish residents emi- grate to engage abroad in activities of limited dura t ion, applications for transfers in excess of the initial SKr 100,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Authorized banks may f ree ly approve paymen ts abroad in respect of various categories of remittances, inc lud ing those in respect of gifts and support paymen ts, up to SKr 1,000 for each t rans fe r. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts f rom abroad on account of l ife, pension, and annu i ty con- tracts; con t rac tual amortization of their inves tmen ts; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal proper ty held by them abroad; and g if ts and inheritances. Residents may accept other k inds of capital receipts f rom abroad on ly upon approval from the R iksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit f rom nonres iden ts must receive au thor iza t ion to do so; each case is considered on its merits. Long-term borrowing abroad by nonbank firms and the Investment Bank is under certain con- ditions perm i t ted ( f or periods of at least ten years) 444 with a view to fac i l i ta t ing the financing of indus t r ial investment in Sweden; otherwise, borrowing to finance economic activity in Sweden is not, in principle, au thor- ized. The Riksbank permits exporters, however, to cover their normal suppliers' credits through foreign borrow- ing. Suppliers' credit granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced abroad even if it serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers also can be granted permission to take up credit abroad to finance contemplated imports. Borrowing by way of suppliers' credit is not controlled, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conform i ty with commercial practice in the trade concerned. In this con- text, authorized banks are upon application permitted to extend to the foreign coun terpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit in tended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through a corresponding foreign borrowing. Per- mission for the financing of the afore-mentioned export and import transactions requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. Foreign-owned compa- nies in Sweden usually are permitted to borrow at medium and long term from the parent companies. Generally, the repayment of foreign credits at any da te other than specified in the contract requires a new au thor iza- tion from the Riksbank. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresi- dents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries and the IBRD have been adm i t ted when the state of the Swedish capital market and the balance of payments were considered to allow them. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Sweden require autho- rization, which no rma l ly is given. The transfer of the liquidation proceeds of such investments, inc lud ing appreciation, requ i re au tho r iza t ion, wh ich a lways is given. Inves tment by non res iden ts in Swedish real estate requ i res approval accord ing to r e g u l a t i o ns other th an exchange con t rol regu la t ions. Res iden ts do not need au tho r iza t ion to sell portfolio holdings of fore ign securities to nonres iden ts. The pur- chase of listed, as well as un l is ted, fore ign securities by residents f rom nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, such au tho r iza t ion is not gran ted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may by v ir tue of a general license purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed fore ign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in fore ign currenc ies w i th the proceeds f rom sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denom ina ted in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase does not inc lude certificates or shares issued by investment companies or inves tment funds (mu tual fund s) and is made w i th in six mon ths of the corresponding sale. Residents may w i thout authoriza- tion buy foreign securities and Swedish securities denom ina ted in foreign currencies from other residents. Subject to ind iv idual license, the repurchase abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is permitted of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kroner, provided that an aff idav it can be produced showing either (1) that at no time since January 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the secu- rities have been acquired w i th the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, by v i r t ue of a general license, handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kroner when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities (sw i tches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-men t ioned a f f idav it requ ire- ments are met; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase from and the da te of the sale to the foreign par ty. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other th an Swedish em igran ts is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange hold- ings of each authorized bank and the types of assets have been listed which the banks may hold within their foreign exchange limits. The ceilings for commercial banks have been fixed with a view to enabling them to carry out their foreign business. Banks may grant only normal ove rd ra f ts to nonresidents. They may incur for- eign exchange liabilities, but may not maintain a net lia- bility in any one currency. This, together with the permis- sion to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow foreign cur- rency from nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of kroner) to foreign banks. However, Swedish banks may not borrow abroad to relend in Sweden or sell the proceeds against Swedish kroner in the market. Nonresidents' holdings of kroner in Regular Accounts must not be "abnormal," and an in terbank arrangement provides that they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any fo rm may be held, purchased, and sold w i th in Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys requ ire licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affec ted are u nm a n u f a c t u r ed gold, most types of sem imanu fac tu red gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or collections). Import licenses are norma l ly granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for indus t r ial and scien- tific purposes, as well as to persons and firms impor t ing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on p r iva te account. Commercial imports and exports of articles con ta in ing gold, such as jewe l ry, may be made freely w i thout a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of num isma t ic va lue and intended for collectors or collections. SWEDEN Changes during 1972 January 1. A general system of preferences for speci- fied imports f rom developing countries came into force. January 31. The approval authority delegated to authorized banks was widened. Among the changes was a general permission to approve applications by resident Swedish nationals to make payments abroad in respect of gifts or support payments up to SKr 1,000 for each transfer. February 4. The ceilings on approvals of repurchases by residents of Swedish securities (denominated in kronor) held abroad by emigrants of Swedish national- ity, and on outward capital transfers by emigrants were removed. The ceilings had been introduced on Sep- tember 11, 1969 and raised on March 30, 1971. Licenses for the repurchase of Swedish securities (denominated in kronor) held abroad (owned by Swedish nationals at the time of emigration or acquired subsequently by such emigrants with the Riksbank's permission) would normally be granted upon applica- tion, provided that the conditions set out in the affidavit were met. Neither these licenses nor the permission to transfer the purchase amount abroad would be subject to proof of need or limitation as to amount. The Riksbank would apply a similarly liberal licensing policy to repurchases of kronor securities held by foreign banks and brokers, which previously were not per- mitted. February 4. The rules for the authorization of out- ward direct investment were amended. Since Sep- tember 1969, authorization had norma l ly been granted only if the investment was regarded as favorable f rom a balance of payments point of view. When the benefits were subject to uncertainties and also when the amount was very large, a condition could be attached that the investment be financed abroad at medium term. This requirement now was abolished, although the possibility was retained of prescribing foreign financing at terms of at least ten years where the amount involved was exceptionally large. The favorable treatment which, under the general guidelines for direct investment, was to be given to investments in developing countries that were the main recipients of Swedish development assistance, was, in practice developing over the year, extended to invest- ments in all developing countries. March 28. The ceilings on the net foreign assets of authorized banks were raised. June 30. The permitted max imum term for fo rwa rd cover granted by authorized banks to their customers in Sweden for imports, outgoing fre ight payments, and outgoing ship charters, was increased f rom 12 to 24 months. Fur thermore, the R iksbank would hencefor th consider applications for fo rwa rd terms in excess of the standard 24-month period (wh ich remained 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN unchanged) in respect of exports, incom ing f re igh t, and incoming ship charters. July 22. Sweden signed an indus t r ial free trade agree- ment w i th the EEC, to come in to effect on J a n u a ry 1, 1973. September 1. Au tho r i z ed b anks were requ ired to sub- m it to the R iksbank for exam ina t ion, in ter alia, any sh ipm en ts of Swedish bankno tes received for credit f rom their fore ign correspondents when containing large amoun ts of SKr 1,000 notes. Prev ious ly, the R ik sb ank 's sc reen ing was con f ined to SKr 10,000 notes. October 25. The R iksbank hencefor th approved auto- m a t i c a l ly a ll app l i c a t ions f r om au tho r ized b a n ks to ex- tend credit to the fo re ign coun t e rp a rt of a Swedish ex- porter or importer when intended to finance individual export or import transactions. Banks were also allowed, when export transac t ions were invo lved, to re f inance such credit by short-term borrow ing abroad, provided that the fore ign re f inanc ing was in tended to be used du r ing the en t ire m a t u r i ty of the credit gran ted to the fore ign coun te rpa rt in the expo rt t r a n s a c t i o n. November 30. Authorized banks were granted a gen- e ral perm iss ion to pay in terest on cred it ba lances in foreign exchange accounts held by residents, instead of app ly ing to the R i k s b a nk for i n d i v i d u al permission; since 1969 such permissions had been g ran ted m a i n ly to i n s u r a n ce c om p a n i e s. 446 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 Exchange Rate System * The gold con t ent of the Swiss Franc as established by Decree of the Federal Counc il on May 9, 1971 is 47/l»i<> (= 0 .21759) g ram of fine gold. The m idd le ra te for the U. S. do l l ar fixed on December 20, 1971 is Sw F 3.84 = US$1. The gold p a r i ty of the Swiss f r a nc has not been altered acco rd ing ly. The Swiss N a t ion al Bank m a i n t a i ns the U. S. do l l ar ra te in a f ree ma rket between l im i ts of Sw F 3.7535 b u y i n g, and Sw F 3.9265 se l l ing, per US$1. The f ree ma rket rate on December 29, 1972 was Sw F 3.7700 per US$1. Market rates for other curren- cies v a ry be tween l im i ts wh ich result f rom comb in ing the o f f ic ial l im i ts for the U. S. do l lar ma in ta ined by Sw i tzer land and such l im i ts in force in the coun t ry of the o ther currency concerned. Exchange is controlled in respect of t r an s a c t ions w i th e ight coun t r ies w i th which Sw i tzer land has b i la te ral agreemen ts or in respect of wh ich Sw i tze r land has enacted autonomous regula- tions. B i la te ral agreemen ts cover Sw i tzer land's paymen ts with seven countries or mone tary a reas ;2 Switzerland also con tro ls i ts paymen ts w i th Eastern Germany, inc lud ing East Be r l in. In accordance w i th the provisions of several of these agreements, official rates are applied to t ransac t ions covered by the agreements. This doma in of regulated se t t lemen ts is known as the sector of con- trolled paymen ts. A ll se t t lemen ts ou ts ide th is sector (including those with all other countries), as well as certain settlements involving Egyptian pounds which represent compensation for nationalization of Swiss property in Egypt, may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Swit- zerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and the applica- tion of controlled payments, the Principality of Liech- tenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the dura t ion of the trea ty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein con- cerning the un ion of the Principality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of capi- tal control, however, physical or juridical persons (in- cluding banks) who are domiciled in the Principality * On J anu a ry 23, 1973 the Na t ional Bank suspended its in terven- tion in the exchange marke t. The Swiss f r anc began to appreciate in terms of U. S. dollars. The suspension was continued throughout the first half of 1973, with the exception that the Na t ional Bank made cer ta in spot and fo rwa rd purchases of U. S. dollars between Feb rua ry 19 and February 23, 1973. Following the revaluation of the deutsche ma rk, it was announced on Ju ly 2, 1973 that the Swiss f ranc would for the time being continue to float. 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 Bu lga r ia, Hunga ry, Poland, Roman ia, and, for certain specific paymen ts only, w i th Cuba, Egyp t, and Turkey. 3 With e f fect f rom August 1, 1973 residents of Liechtenstein ceased to be regarded as nonresidents for purposes of cap i tal control, except in respect of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. of Liechtenstein are considered by Sw i tze r land as non- residents.3 Administration of Control The au thor i ty to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and paymen ts is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in ma t ters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is en t rus ted w i th the opera t ion of con tro l led paymen t s. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and /or by the Swiss regulations. Settlements with coun- tries in this sector are made in Swiss f rancs; however, certain settlements with Egypt may be made in Egyptian pounds through special accounts maintained by the Swiss Compensation Office at the Central Bank of Egypt, and certain settlements with Cuba must be made in Swiss francs to the debit or credit of a special account at the Swiss National Bank. Outside the sector of con- trolled payments, certain settlements with Turkey are subject to special regulations. In all other cases, settle- ments are not subject to regulations involving prescrip- tion of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts related to the sector of con- trolled payments may be grouped as follows: (1) accounts related to Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Poland, and Roman ia, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentralized" accounts, comprising those which may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with authorized banks in Switzer- land. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of Eastern Germany, which are transferable only to other accounts of the same nation- ality, and the accounts of Egypt, which are subject to special treatment. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. With a few excep- tions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricul- tural products. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regu- lations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled pay- men ts. Paymen ts for imports f rom a ll other coun t r ies may be made freely through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely; how- ever, payments to Eastern Germany (including East Berlin) and countries with which Switzerland has bilat- eral paymen ts agreements are controlled.4 The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through ind iv idual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of controlled pay- ments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital from countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Trans- fers of capital to other countries may be made freely, with the exception that bank credits and other bank lending to nonresidents, when exceeding Sw F 10 mil- lion each and with a maturity of 12 months or more, require permission. This applies, inter alia, to foreign issues in Switzerland of bonds and direct participations by Swiss banks in Euro-bond issues. Furthermore, all proposed first placings of medium-term negotiable paper (notes, certificates of deposit, etc.) in amounts of Sw F 3 million or more must be submitted to the National Bank for examination. Issues of domestic bonds in Switzer- land are subject to a system of vo lun tary issue control.5 All capital exports licensed by the National Bank (bond issues, placings of notes, and other loans and credits, 4 Paymen ts to Cuba are controlled only insofar as th ey relate to the Cuban-Swiss agreement on indemnification for nationalized property. 5 On J a n u a ry 10, 1973 the Federal Government empowered the Na t ional B ank to f ix a c e i l ing for domestic bond and share issues of Sw F 5 m i l l i on or more. 448 except export cred i t) must upon approval (or, where appropriate, as soon as the subscription lists are closed) be converted in to fore ign currency at Swiss banks; a prescribed m i n im um portion of this conversion must take place at the Na t ional Bank.0 Banks participating in new issues of Swiss f ranc bonds or notes by non- residents must place at least 60 per c e n t7 of the total amount of each issue with resident customers, and they may not sell the notes to non res ident banks. Inwa rd capital t rans fe rs are restricted. Some of the re levant regu la t ions make a d is t inc t ion between alien nonresidents and nonresidents of Swiss na t iona l i ty, the latter u s u a l ly being exempt f rom prohibitions or approval requ iremen ts even when they have their per- m a n e nt residence abroad. Ju r id ical persons or firms that have t h e ir registered offices in Sw i tze r land are treated as non r e s id en ts if they are u n d er fo re ign ma jor i ty con- trol and do not engage in any economic a c t iv i ty in Switzerland. Physical or ju r id ical persons hav ing their dom ic i le or registered office in Liechtenstein are con- sidered nonresidents.s The def in i t ion of the terms "for- eigner" and "foreign funds" is not the same und er all types of capital con trol regu la t ions. All ju r id i c al acts a im ing at the acquisition of real estate situated in Switzerland by physical or juridical persons resident abroad are prohibited. Banks and other f inanc ial intermediaries must abstain f rom investing for- eign funds in Swiss securities, foreign securities denomi- nated in Swiss francs, and mortgages on Swiss real estate, although nonresidents selling Swiss securities in Switzerland or ob ta in ing the redemption proceeds of Swiss securities are permitted to reinvest the proceeds (whether these accrue to themselves or other nonresi- dents) in Swiss securities within a month of receipt, pro- vided this offsetting takes place within the "investment quota" of the bank or securities dealer's office where the proceeds are received. The physical importation of Swiss and foreign securities is unrestricted. The National Bank may approve the acquisition of Swiss assets by a nonresident when they would serve to create or expand a business firm in Switzerland. Borrowing f rom non- residents, whether in domestic or foreign currency, by resident physical and juridical persons other than banks requires the prior approval of the National Bank, which is not normally granted; the principal exemptions from this licensing requirement are for borrowing correspond- ing to customary credit terms for current commercial transactions and for credits up to Sw F 1 m i l l i on a debtor a year. Banks are subject to marginal reserve requirements against the growth in external liabilities a f ter July 31, 1971 (both liabilities in Swiss francs and in foreign currencies) and they are required to lodge w i th the Na t ional Bank reserves corresponding to 80 per cent of "Th is conversion requ i rement was abolished on J a n u a ry 15, 1973. 7 On March 27, 1973 th is percentage was raised to 65 per cen t. »S in ce A u g u st 1, 1973 th ey have u n d er c e r t a in c o n d i t i o ns been t r e a t ed as Swiss res iden ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution all Swiss f ranc deposits received from nonresidents after that date, as well as reserves against their foreign cur- rency liabilities. Furthermore, banks are not permitted to pay interest on Swiss franc deposits received f rom nonresidents af ter July 31, 1971 and must charge a commission ("negative interest") of 2 per cent a calen- dar quarter, payable in advance, on all net increases after June 30, 1972 in nonresident-held Swiss franc deposits, irrespective of maturity. Exempt f rom the commission are balances up to Sw F 100,000 a depositor. Irrespective of the present restrictions on the acquisi- tion of Swiss real estate, purchases of real estate to be used as premises for commercial or industrial firms in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons of foreign nationality who are domiciled abroad require approval by the can ton where the property is situated. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad; domestic transactions are not subject to any sales or turnover tax. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs du ty (bars and certain coins are exempt) or sales tax (coins and bars are exempt). Import and export licenses are required for commer- cial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold; these are issued freely. Changes during 1972 February 14. Banks participating in new issues of medium-term notes (not bonds) denominated in Swiss francs by nonresidents were required to place at least 60 per cent of the total amount with resident customers, and they were no longer permitted to sell such new notes to nonresident banks.9 For the application of this regulation, Liechtenstein was considered a foreign coun- try.10 Medium-term Swiss f ranc notes had to be placed with a bank's own customers, in units of at least Sw F 50,000 for nonresidents and at least Sw F 20,000 for residents, and the notes had to remain on deposit with the issuing bank. The National Bank reminded the credit institutions that for reasons of exchange policy the issue by fore ign issuers of debt instruments expressed in Swiss francs and with maturities of less than 12 months was undesirable. The Bank noted that it had been extremely liberal in authorizing capital exports, authorizations issued between December 20, 1971 and 9 This action cons t i tu ted a reversal of the p r ev ious practice of prescribing m i n im um percen tages of new bond and notes issues that had to be reserved for non res iden ts. See also J u ly 10, below. 10 This app l ies to all r egu l a t ions based on the Federal Law on Banks and Sav ings I n s t i t u t i o ns since L iech tens te in banks are not sub ject to th is Law. SWITZERLAND February 9, 1972 having amounted to Sw F 2.2 billion. February 14. The conversion requirement introduced on August 16, 1971 was modified, which had prescribed that all capital exports subject to licensing (except export credit or the consolidation of credits that had previously been licensed by the National Bank) were to be con- verted into foreign currency in Switzerland, by the bor- rower, as soon as they had been approved, or, where appropriate, as soon as subscription lists had been closed. Henceforth, banks receiving the National Bank's license had to convert into U. S. dollars at the National Bank at least 25 per cent of the Swiss franc amount of all loans or credits granted to, and medium-term debt certificates (notes, certificates of deposit, etc.) taken up f rom, nonresident borrowers; these conversions took place at the rate of Sw F 3.9265 = US$1 (the lower intervention l im i t ); the remaining 75 per cent had to be converted immediately at Swiss commercial banks, but not necessarily into U. S. dollars or at any prescribed exchange rate. Exemptions for payments in respect of Swiss exports or for the consolidation of existing debts expressed in Swiss francs required individual approval from the National Bank. (On May 1, the mandatory conversion ratio was increased to 40 per cent and the applicable exchange rate changed to Sw F 3.88 = US$1; this rate was also applied when banks opted to draw on their minimum reserves at the National Bank to purchase U. S. dollars. On July 25, that rate was reduced to either Sw F 3.80 or the market rate of exchange, whichever was higher. On September 15, the prescribed minimum conversion ratio was increased to 50 per cent for funds with a maturity of less than five years and to 60 per cent for funds with a maturity of five years or more. On Janu- ary 15, 1973, the conversion requirement was abolished.) February 28. Banks were reminded that official policy continued to be to prevent the use of the Swiss f ranc as an international key currency and particularly as a reserve medium. They were asked to report every month to the National Bank on the amounts, maturity, and geographic origin of Swiss f ranc deposits held by for- eign central banks and other official currency agencies. (Earlier in 1972, central banks had already been requested to reduce their Swiss f ranc holdings to normal working balances.) March 1. Generalized tariff preferences came into force for imports of manufactured and semimanufac- tured goods f rom most developing countries. April 5. The National Bank, acting in agreement with the ma jor commercial banks, implemented an additional provision of the gentleman's agreement of August 16, 1971. M in imum reserve requirements of 20 per cent against sight deposits and 2V2 per cent against savings deposits were imposed on the growth of banks' domestic liabilities since Ju ly 31, 1971. It was the first measure of this kind and was expected to sterilize about Sw F 1 billion. The reserve requirement against the increase in 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND banks' net fore ign liabilities in Swiss francs was reduced f rom 100 per cent to 50 per cent but was interpreted more restrictively, so that the amoun ts sterilized by this requirement increased by Sw F 1-1 V> billion. Offsets against the increase in foreign liabilities that were no longer permitted in ca lcu la t ing compliance with this reserve requ i rement were increases in foreign assets denom ina ted in Swiss francs. Purchases and sales of foreign currencies covered by fo rwa rd contracts against Swiss francs were taken into account. Furthermore, the t rea tment of "fiduciary" funds was modified so that reserves were required against such funds only when received from nonresidents and invested in Switzerland. (The new reserve requirements were applied with effect f rom March 31. They were put on a s ta tu to ry basis by a Federal Decree of July 5, see below.) April 28. Agreement in principle was reached with Poland that the b i la teral paymen ts arrangemen ts would be terminated as soon as possible. (At the end of the year they were still in force.) May 21. Agreement in principle was reached with Hunga ry that the bilateral paymen ts arrangements were to be terminated. (By the end of the year, the negotia- tions had not been concluded and the arrangemen ts continued in force.) June 4. The validity of the Emergency Decree for the Protection of the Currency of October 8, 1971 was by referendum extended until October 1974. The Decree conferred powers on the Federal Government to take any special measures it might consider essential to con- duct a monetary policy adapted to the country's general interest, notably in order to limit the undesirable inflow of foreign capital funds and to induce their outflow. They included the power to impose negative interest rates on foreign funds and to declare the gentleman's agreements, which so far had been negotiated with the large banks, to be b ind ing on all credit ins t i tu t ions. June 23. Following the floating of sterling, the National Bank suspended its intervention in the exchange market. Intervention was resumed on Ju ly 3. June 26. The Federal Governmen t, invok ing for the first time the Federal Decree for the Protection of the Currency of October 8, 1971, took two emergency meas- ures that were to rema in in force un t il October 1974 if not terminated earlier. All juridical acts aiming at the acquisition of real estate in Switzerland (or rights to the use of such real estate) by physical or jur id ical persons resident abroad (having their domicile or registered office abroad) were prohibited by a Federal Decree (which came into force on June 2 7 ), and dealers in securities (including banks) and other financial intermediaries were instructed by a Federal Ordinance (which also came into force on June 27) to abstain f rom investing foreign funds in domestic securities, foreign securities denominated in Swiss francs, bearer savings books of Swiss banks, and mortgages on Swiss real estate. Domestic securities were 450 def ined as any securities issued by a Swiss debtor and any securities denom ina ted in Swiss f rancs issued by a foreign debtor. Nonresidents selling Swiss securities in Switzerland could reinvest the proceeds in Swiss secu- rities, but only w i th in the "investment quota" of the securities dealer receiving the proceeds (see be low ). Under both measures a d is t inc t ion was made between alien nonres iden ts and nonres iden ts of Swiss nationality. Nonres iden ts were defined so as to include ( 1) the estab- lishments abroad of a Swiss en terpr ise, and (2) physical or ju r id ical persons hav ing the ir domicile or registered office in Liechtenstein; Liechtenstein was considered a foreign country. For purposes of the acquisition of Swiss real estate, fore ign na t iona ls l iv ing in Switzerland were considered residents if they had a residence perm it or otherwise if they had lived there w i th permission and w i thout in te r rup t ion for at least five years; exemptions f r om the proh ib i t ion could on ly be g ran ted by the Fed- eral Depar tment of Justice. For purposes of investment in Swiss securities, fo re ign f u n ds were def ined as means of payment, balances, and other assets belonging to for- eigners, whe ther denom ina ted in Swiss francs or foreign currency; fore igners were defined as (1) physical persons of fore ign na t iona l i ty residing abroad, (2) jur id ical per- sons and firms having the ir registered office abroad, and (3) juridical persons and firms hav ing their registered office in Sw i tzer land but controlled f rom abroad and either not engaged in business in Switzerland or engaged in the acquisition of Swiss securities or of mortgages on Swiss real estate. Exemptions f rom the prohibition on the investment of foreign funds in Swiss real estate included: (1) the acqui- sition of real estate used as premises for a commercial or indus tr ial firm; (2) the acquisition of real estate used by Swiss branches of fore ign insurance companies as cover for the ir ma thema t ical reserves; (3) any acquisi- tion by Swiss citizens domiciled abroad; and (4) acquisi- tions for public purposes by fo re ign governmen ts and international organizations (not their staff or employees). Under some of these exemptions, the authorization of the canton concerned was required but could not be w i thhe ld. No exemption was gran ted in regions con- sidered worthy of preservation or regions where the proportion of real estate purchases by fore igners was considered excessive. Exemptions f rom the proh ib i t ion on the inves tment of fore ign funds in Swiss securities, etc., included: (1) the use of subscription rights deriving f rom an existing capi- tal participation; (2) subscriptions to Swiss investment funds having at least 80 per cent of their assets invested abroad; (3) subscriptions to Swiss holding companies having at least 80 per cent of their assets invested abroad; (4) subject to Na t ional Bank approval, subscrip- tions to new Swiss f ranc loans for conversion into for- eign currency and use abroad; (5) subject to National Bank approval, the acquisition of Swiss securities or other assets serving to create or expand a business in Switzerland; and (6) acquisition by inher i tance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Fu r the rmo re, nonres iden ts were perm i t ted to acquire Swiss securities released by other nonresidents; banks and other security brokers could acquire Swiss securities for the account of foreigners up to the amount of such secu- rities they purchased f rom foreigners in the same calen- dar mon th ( inc lud ing securities cashed upon redemption for foreigners), but this o f fse t t ing could not take place between d i f fe rent securities dealers. Where the June 27 measures involved a licensing requ irement rather than an ou t r ight prohibition, licenses were not no rma l ly granted. The Na t ional Bank set quotas up to which new bond issues in Swiss f rancs could be taken up by nonresidents. June 28. The Federal Decree on Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Measures was issued, to come into effect on January 1, 1973 (see December 31, b e low ). July 3. The Na t ional Bank issued c la r i fy ing guidelines for the imp lemen ta t ion of the Federal Ord inance of June 26. Swiss citizens living abroad were not con- sidered foreigners, nor were international organizations having a registered office in Switzerland (or their staff and emp loyees ). Foreign-owned companies in Switzer- land were treated as foreign if they had no economic activities in Switzerland or if their purpose was the acquisition of securities or mortgages. The place of domicile or registered office was to be determined in accordance w i th Articles 23-26 and Article 56 of the Civil Code. Establishments in Switzerland of foreign firms were not considered fore ign but could only acquire goods and securities in Switzerland to the extent that these covered their current operating requirements. Such acquisition required National Bank approval when it served to expand those establishments, and the Bank's approval was also needed for acquisitions aimed at the creation of an establishment in Switzerland by a foreign firm, or when foreigners for similar purposes wished to establish a firm in Switzerland. July 3. The National Bank, resuming its operations in the exchange market, issued a warning that a penalty in the form of a negative interest rate would be imposed on increases in nonresidents' deposits if the inflow of funds became too large. July 4. A Federal Ordinance, retroactive to July 3, introduced a negative interest penalty in the form of a commission charge of 2 per cent a calendar quarter, payable in advance, on all net increases in excess of Sw F 100,000 occurring after June 30, 1972 in foreign- held bank deposits in Swiss francs, including "fiduciary" depos i tsal placed with banks for reinvestment. The commission had to be charged irrespective of the matu- rity of the deposit and to be transferred to the National Bank. The Ordinance also put on a statutory basis the prohibition on the payment of interest on foreign-owned 11 These mostly relate to Euro-currency transactions e f fec ted by the banks for the account of customers, the latter bea r ing both the exchange rate risk and the commercial risk. SWITZERLAND f u n ds deposited a f ter J u ly 31, 1971 (w i th the exception of savings accounts of up to Sw F 50,000 a depos i to r ), which previously had rested on a gentleman's agreement and had applied only to deposits with the larger banks. Both the reference date and the exemptions were d i f fe r- ent for commission charge and interest proh ib i t ion. The Ord inance was applicable to all credit ins t i tu t ions sub- ject to the Banking Law of 1934; Liechtenstein was con- sidered a foreign country for purposes of the Ordinance. (Implementing instructions issued on Ju ly 19 provided that the Bank for In terna t ional Settlements was to be considered a foreign bank established abroad and that all physical and jur id ical persons or firms, including banks, that were domiciled in Liechtenstein were to be considered fore ign. The application of the regulation was made more stringent in February 1973, when the calculation basis was changed f rom the average balance in a calendar month to the highest daily balance.) July 5. A Federal Ordinance made the raising or renewal abroad of credit, whether in domestic or for- eign currency, by resident physical and juridical persons other than banks subject to prior authorization by the National Bank; such approval was also needed to change the terms of an existing foreign credit. There was an exemption for credits of up to Sw F 1 million a debtor a year and for credits representing customary credit terms or advance payments for current commer- cial transactions.12 The acceptance of monies was treated as the taking up of a credit if there was a repayment obligation. Credit extended within a multinational com- pany (i.e.,between the constituent parts of a single enter- prise) was treated as credit granted by an autonomous firm. In granting approvals, the National Bank had to take into account primarily the effect on the domes- tic money supply; such approvals were not normally granted. Liechtenstein was considered a foreign country for the purposes of the Ordinance. (Implementing instructions issued on July 31 stated that approval was needed for borrowing also when the funds were to be used abroad. Exempt from approval was the repatriation of funds invested abroad in their own names by residents. Subject to approval, however, were credits taken up abroad for purposes of exchange rate cover against foreign currency claims. Swiss affili- ates of foreign firms were considered residents, but for- eign affiliates of Swiss firms were treated as nonresidents. Clarifications were provided about roll-over credits, interest rate changes on existing credits, credits between the constituent parts of a multinational corporation, and credit terms "customary in the trade concerned.") July 5. A Federal Ordinance made the external posi- tions of all commercial banks subject to control by introducing with immediate effect a prohibition on the 12 With effect from Apr il 16, 1973 the exemption of Sw F 1 million was restricted to credits taken up in foreign currency, when used entirely abroad and not converted into Swiss francs. For other bor- rowings, the exemption was reduced to Sw F 50,000 a debtor, and could be used only once ins tead of each calendar year. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND maintenance of a net liability position in foreign cur- rency. Each bank's foreign currency liabilities (spot and forward combined) had to be covered at the close of business each day by its foreign currency assets (spot and forward combined). The National Bank, however, could establish a "leeway" margin. Banks' transactions in foreign currency with their own branches and sub- sidiaries abroad were treated as transactions with third parties, but excluded f rom the calculation were "fidu- ciary" transactions in foreign currency and the foreign currency positions of each bank's foreign branches and subsidiaries. (With effect f rom October 15 the Ordinance was amended so as to give the Na t ional Bank the power to impose or terminate the balanced position require- ment, without pre jud ice to the continued validity of the Ordinance .) July 5. A Federal Ordinance placed the marginal reserve requirements against increases in banks' foreign liabilities, which had rested on a gentleman's agreement, on a statutory basis and modified these requirements.13 The National Bank was empowered to impose a mini- mum reserve requirement of up to 90 per cent on the growth in liabilities since July 31, 1971 vis-a-vis non- residents (Swiss francs and foreign currency combined) of all banks and financial institutions with a balance sheet total of Sw F 20 million or more. The minimum reserves were to be paid for the first time on the increase in foreign funds between July 31, 1971 and June 30, 1972. Unlike the August 16, 1971 agreement, the new arrangements did not provide for an automatic offsetting of any increases in foreign currency and Swiss f ranc claims on nonresidents. The Na t ional Bank was authorized, however, to allow banks to deduct all or part of the growth in their foreign currency placements abroad af ter the "reference date" (July 31, 1971); in doing so, the National Bank could take into account for- ward purchases and sales of foreign currencies against Swiss francs. The Bank was empowered to apply the reserve requirement also to any increases in "fiduciary" funds handled by the banks on behalf of nonresidents. The reserves had to be held in noninterest-bearing accounts at the National Bank which, however, could allow banks to purchase U. S. dollars f rom it with these funds. In setting the percentage or percentages of the reserve requirement, the National Bank had to take into account the liquidity of the banking system; it was authorized to set d i f fe rent rates for d ifferent balance sheet items. New reserve requirements became effective on July 21 (see be low). Liechtenstein was considered a foreign coun try for the purposes of this Ordinance. July 10. At least 60 per cent of each new Swiss franc bond issue by nonresidents had to be allocated to resi- dents. (This ratio was raised to 65 per cent with effect f rom April 11, 1973.) "This gentleman's agreement rema ined in force. 452 July 21. The National Bank increased the reserve requirements on both the growth in banks' domestic liabilities and the growth in their foreign liabilities so as to sterilize about Sw F 450 million of the former and about Sw F 550 million of the latter. The marginal reserve ratios on the growth in foreign liabilities were set at 40 per cent for Swiss f ranc deposits, 20 per cent on that in gross foreign currency deposits, and 20 per cent on the net increase in foreign currency deposits (i.e., any increase not offset by an increase in foreign currency assets). Previously, there had been a single marginal reserve ratio of 50 per cent on the increase in net external liabilities. In calculating the required reserves, any increase in fo re ign assets denominated in foreign currencies could be offset against the increase in fore ign currency liabili- ties. July 22. An industrial f ree trade agreement was signed w i th the EEC. It came into force on J anu a ry 1, 1973. July 24. In view of the forthcoming expiration on July 31 of the limitation of the expansion of credit based on the gentleman's agreement of September 1969, which provided for the limitation of the growth of credit, the Na t ional Bank issued a circular to the credit institutions requesting them not to allow a substantially higher growth rate of domestic credit than would have been permitted under the agreement. July 31. The limitation of the expansion of credit based on the gentleman's agreement of September 1969 expired and was not renewed. Banks which on this date had exceeded the permissible rate of increase for domestic credit had to deposit a total of Sw F 355 million with the National Bank, in special blocked accounts, for a period of three months. August 4. The Federal Land Registration Office, act- ing with the approval of the Federal Department of Justice, addressed a circular to the cantons containing guidelines for the hand l ing of pending applications for the acquisition of real estate with foreign funds. September 14. The National Bank increased the maxi- mum amount of Swiss f ranc bond issues it would authorize f rom Sw F 80 million to Sw F 100 million. September 25. The Federal Council stated its position on the circumstances in which the prohibition on for- eign investment in Swiss real estate could be l if ted for "hardship cases." October 6. The large banks suspended for about two weeks the issue program for fo re ign issues of bonds denominated in Swiss francs. October 16. The obligation for banks to balance their foreign currency position daily was suspended. (The requirement was reimposed on J anu a ry 23, 1973, with effect f rom Janua ry 29, 1973.) October 25. The Federal Council approved a draft bill which would abolish the stamp duty on domestic bonds, fore ign securities, bills of exchange and similar ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution paper, and checks. The Council also approved draft leg- islation to tighten the law regulating the sale of Swiss real estate to foreigners, the Lex von Moos. (By August 1973 the new law had not yet come into effect.) October 31. In anticipation of year-end needs, the National Bank temporarily released part of the banks' minimum reserve deposits; these funds, it was stated, were to be called in again in January 1973, insofar as the reserves related to domestic liabilities. The marginal reserve requirement against the growth in banks' domes- tic liabilities was reduced by 20 percentage points for all types of liabilities. The marginal reserve requirements against the growth in external liabilities were reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent for gross foreign cur- rency liabilities insofar as their growth was offset by a growth in foreign currency assets, and increased f rom 40 per cent to 80 per cent for gross Swiss f ranc liabili- ties; the reserve against gross liabilities in foreign cur- rencies was set at 80 per cent, however, where the increase in foreign currency liabilities was not offset by a corresponding increase in foreign currency assets. These measures resulted in the release toward the end of November of about Sw F 400 million of funds steri- lized against domestic liabilities and the release of about Sw F 200 million sterilized against external liabilities. November 23. Agreement was reached on the ter- mination of the bilateral payments arrangements with Bulgaria. (By the end of the year, this agreement had not yet come into force.) December 4. The Government submitted to Parlia- ment a package of anti-inflationary emergency measures. The emergency decrees were approved and came into force on December 20 and provided, inter alia, the fol- lowing. The National Bank was empowered to impose mandatory reserve requirements on banks' liabilities to residents and nonresidents alike, and to impose ceilings on domestic bank credit; "fiduciary" accounts could be included in the liabilities subject to reserve requirements, and the Bank could choose any base date on or after Ju ly 31, 1971. The Federal Government was empowered to subject all public domestic issues of shares or bonds to approval by a special commission, a ceiling for the global amount of such issues being fixed by the National Bank. Existing vo lun ta ry controls had been aimed only at ensur ing order ly market conditions. The measures included an extension of the legal authority (Federal Ordinance of June 24, 1970) to introduce an export deposit requ iremen t, which would expire at the end of 1972. The max imum retention period was increased SWITZERLAND f rom three to ten years af ter the l if t ing of the deposit requirement. (See also December 20, below.) (On January 16, 1973 the National Bank introduced a ceiling limiting the expansion of bank credit until July 31, 1973 to 6 per cent over the level permitted on July 31, 1972. The Bank also imposed a ceiling for 1973 of Sw F 3.4 billion on public issues of bonds by residents; such issues had amounted to Sw F 4.0 billion in 1972.) December 13. Agreement was reached on the termi- nation of the bilateral payments arrangements with Romania. (By the end of the year, this agreement had not yet come into force.) December 20. The Federal Decree on Measures in the Field of Credit and Banking came into force. It empowered the National Bank to impose reserve require- ments on the level as well as the growth of various types of bank liabilities. For domestic funds, the maximum requirements that could be imposed were 12 per cent on the level of demand or time deposits held by banks and 40 per cent on their increase over the level of domestic credit that was permissible on July 31, 1971; 12 per cent on the level of other sight deposits and 40 per cent on their increase; 9 per cent on the level of other time deposits and 30 per cent on their increase; and 2 per cent on the level of savings deposits and cash certificates with a maturity under five years, and 5 per cent on their increase. For foreign funds, the maximums were twice those for domestic funds. (By the end of the year these powers had not been invoked. Reserve requirements on the level of external liabilities were imposed early in March 1973 and took effect on March 26, 1973; they d ifferen t ia ted between Swiss franc and foreign currency liabilities.) The Decree also provided for a Capital Issues Com- mittee. This was established on January 17, 1973. Imple- menting regulations were issued by the Federal Council on Janua ry 10, 1973. December 31. The Federal Decree on Economic Measures vis-a-vis Foreign Countries of September 28, 1956 expired. (It was replaced with effect f rom Janu- ary 1, 1973 by the Federal Decree on Foreign Trade and Payments Measures of June 28, 1972. This pro- vided, inter alia, for the transfer of the operations of the Clearing Office to the National Bank when the shrinking of the sector of controlled paymen ts would no longer ju s t i fy operations through a separate institution. The Decree also revised the powers for the conclusion, revision, or termination of trade agreements and pay- ments agreements.) 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System * On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by the Syrian Arab Republic w i th the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange markets, the official ma rket and the free or "parallel" market w i th a nom ina l ly fluctuating rate. There are fixed official rates of LS 3.80 buy ing and LS 3.82 selling, per US$1; official market rates for other currencies are quoted by the Exchange Office on the basis of the fixed rates for the U. S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in interna- t ional centers. The parallel ma rket rates have been pegged since February 1970 (except, for noncommer- cial transactions only, dur ing the period June-September 1972) at LS 4.30 buy ing, and LS 4.32 selling, per US$1; these rates continued in force on December 30, 1972. In practice, the parallel market rate for the U. S. dollar is set by the Commercial Bank of Syria in consultation with the Exchange Office. The official market rate applies to receipts f rom exports of cotton and crude petroleum and from oil pipeline royalties, and, temporarily and exceptionally, to the expenditures of the Syrian diplomatic corps and embassies abroad and of official delegations sent abroad at the expense of the State, as well as the cost of study, training, and teaching abroad. 1 The parallel market rate applies to all other transactions. The Commercial Bank of Syria charges a commission of 2Ao of 1 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Government through the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administra- tive Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Cen- tral Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions are issued by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks deal in foreign exchange both in the official and the free market. They open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one authorized bank, the Commer- * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the Syrian Arab Republic with effect from February 18 changed the buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar in the parallel ma rket to LS 4.00 buy ing, and LS 4.05 selling per US$1. In the official market the selling rate was changed to LS 3.85 per US$1, while the buy ing rate was maintained unchanged at LS 3.80 per US$1. 1 Certain paymen ts due on old import contracts licensed at the off ic ial rate may still be made at the off ic ial rate. 454 cial Bank of Syria, which has been au thor ized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection w i thout prior approva l, provided that certain cond i t ions are f u l f i l l e d. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be ob ta ined for exports. The current requirement is that proceeds of exports to all countries except those w i th which the Syrian A rab Republic has bilateral paymen ts agreements 2 be obtained in the cur- rency of the coun t ry to wh ich the goods are exported if it is an "acceptable" cu r r en cy ,3 or in any other con- vertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds f rom exports to certain neighboring coun t r ies may be obtained in bankno tes issued by the coun t ry concerned; these countries are Cyprus, the Gu lf states, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, Saudi Arab ia, Turkey, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Prescription of currency requ iremen ts are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonres ident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonres iden ts 4 and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the coun t ry of the account holder or, w i th the prior approval of the Exchange Office, to other countries, and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Transfers abroad f rom these accounts require the prior approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted freely. Res iden ts and nonres iden ts may also keep accounts in fore ign currencies in the Syrian Arab Republic, but only if these accounts result f rom an inflow of capital; t rans fe rs abroad f rom these accounts are made freely. Temporary resident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resident in the Syrian Arab Republic. Perm i t ted credits include the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in through the parallel market and amounts correspond- ing to import payments that are not transferred. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for certain expenditures abroad also are permitted. 2 Bu lgar ia, ma in land China, Cuba, Eastern Ge rmany, Egypt, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Poland, Romania, Spain, Sri Lanka, U. S. S. R., and No r th Viet-Nam. Agreement has been reached to terminate the payments agreement with Spain in the near f u t u r e. 3 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jo rdan dinars, Leba- nese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 4 Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been living in the Syrian Arab Republic for more than a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Imports of commod i t ies or ig ina t ing in Israel, Rho- desia, or South Afr ica are prohibited. Many basic com- modities ( inc lud ing green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and agr icu l tural m a ch in e ry) are imported only by state t r ad ing agencies ( inc lud ing the successor o rgan iza t ions to SIMEX, par t icu lar ly the Gen- eral O rgan iza t ion for Trade and A r t isan Products — GOTA) or, for the ir own account, by certain other official agencies. Imports of some other commodities are reserved for "unions of industries." Imports are divided in to three ma in categories: ( 1) imports proh ib i ted by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which com- prises mostly goods that are produced domestically, in- cluding some textile produc ts; (2) imports on a Sus- pended List, which comprises some less essential goods which are tempo ra r i ly not admitted either for balance of paymen ts reasons or for protective reasons; and ( 3) all imports not inc luded in the above two lists. Certain suspended imports may be acquired in paymen ts agree- ment countries th rough compensation transactions invo lv ing the export of Syrian indus tr ial or mineral products. V i r tua l ly all impor ts must be made direct from the coun try of origin, w i thout the intermediary of any firm conducting a business established outside the Syrian Arab Republic; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the au thor i ty, however, to per- mit certain goods to be imported f rom countries other than the coun t ry of origin. Certain consumer goods that do not appear on a special list cannot be imported f rom the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, or the United States unless it is shown that the price is lower and the qua l i ty higher than that of comparable products offered by other suppliers. All perm i t ted imports, except those made by state t rad ing agencies, require ind iv idual import licenses before the placing of orders. The state t rad ing agencies may conclude impo rt transac t ions and have the goods shipped before an import license is gran ted; the license must be obtained, however, be fo re customs clearance. Goods included in the Suspended List may be imported only under ce r ta in conditions of domestic need, under special ind iv idual license f rom the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and w i th the prior approval of the M in is try of Indus t ry or the M in is t ry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Suspended or Prohibited Lists) from Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are not subject to license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agreements of the Syrian Arab Republic w i th some of these coun- tries. These imports include all agr icu l tural commodities, livestock, and some industrial products. Syrian citizens, whether resident in the Syrian Arab Republic or abroad, are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts, provided that imports are paid for with their own foreign exchange held abroad; to obtain import licenses, SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC wh ich cannot exceed the va lue of LS 100,000 (except for capital goods), the impor ter must provide evidence of his foreign exchange ho ld ings abroad on Decem- ber 31, 1970. Import licenses are granted free ly to importers who have obtained fo r e ign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days. Licenses to import specified con- sumer goods, raw ma te r ia ls, and semifinished goods, up to a va lue of LS 12,000 for a six-month period, are freely gran ted to t rade rs and industrialists whose activity is certified by the Chamber of Commerce or by the Chamber of Indus try. Impor ts by parcel post of any goods that are neither prohibited nor suspended are per- m i t ted w i thout a license, provided th at each parcel is valued at LS 250 or less. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, inc lud ing raw materials, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In add i t ion, there are the fo l low ing taxes on impor ts which are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent, (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the ta r i ff ra te is more than 1 per cent, (3) a defense tax of 10 per cent of the t a r i f f, (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the t a r i f f, (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the ta r i ff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (most commodities can be imported only through Syrian har- bo r s ), and (6) an ocean tax of %o of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Payments for imports may be made by letters of credit, time d ra f ts, or bills for collection, or by credit- ing a nonresident account or a temporary resident account. The importer submits to the Commercial Bank of Syria the import license and the pro forma invoice. The Commercial Bank of Syria then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. Approval by the Exchange Office is curren t ly not required. Cer- tain delays may occur in the provision of foreign exchange for imports on a collection basis. Payments for Invisibles The insurance for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. All payments for invisi- bles, except those for Syrian diplomatic missions and delegations abroad and for study and teaching abroad, must be made through the parallel market. Residents trave l ing abroad may take with them for- eign exchange purchased at the parallel market rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 100 a trip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a trip; for travel to other Arab countries (except Algeria, the Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, the Sudan, and Tunisia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a tr ip; and for travel to other countries (including Algeria, the Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, the Sudan, and Tun is ia ), the equivalent of LS 1,250 a trip. For children under ten 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC years of age, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned. Travelers to Iraq, Jordan, and other countries of the Arab Common Market may, instead of taking up the above-mentioned travel allocations in foreign currency, export Syrian currency up to the amount of the allowance to which they are entitled. On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. Fixed allocations at the free market rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresi- dents f rom Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out foreign exchange and Syrian currency within the limit of the declaration they have made when enter- ing the Syrian Arab Republic; the amount of Syrian cur- rency taken out may not exceed LS 100. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of the main export products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For all private exports, however, a repatriation commitment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within six months a f ter the date of export. The proceeds of exports of cotton and crude petroleum must be surrendered to the Exchange Office at the official buying rate. The proceeds of other exports must be surrendered by sale at the parallel market rate. Certain manu fac tu red exports receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of l2l/2 per cent ad valorem. All exports of agricultural products ( inc lud ing cotton) are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. All the above taxes are collected by the customs. 456 Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles, inc lud ing tour ism and the local expenditures of oil companies (but not roya l t ies ), must be sold in the parallel ma rke t. Nonresidents enter- ing the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited fore ign exchange in any form, provided that they present a wr i t ten s ta tement of the amount upon en t ry; this statement is required only when the traveler intends to take out the foreign exchange he brought in. Nonresidents are permitted to br ing in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital All inward and ou tward capital transfers, except cer- ta in payments for Syrian d ip loma t ic missions and dele- gations abroad, take place through the parallel market. Imports of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Special facilities for investment of Arab capital in the Syrian Arab Republic are provided by Legislative Decree No. 348 of Decem- ber 29, 1969. Other facilities perm i t t ing residents and nonresidents of any na t iona l i ty to open foreign currency accounts in the Syrian Arab Republic with imported funds are based on Decree No. 779 of April 1, 1970 and Order No. 191 of April 23, 1970. Neither type of facility is applicable to funds received over clearing accounts or by diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic w i thout restriction. The domestic negotiation of gold takes place at free market prices that are in line w i th world free market prices. Imports and exports of gold are free from import or export licensing. Import payments, however, require the approval of the Exchange Office, wh ich is gran ted only for imports for industrial use or for re-export. Export proceeds are subject to surrender. Changes during 1972 During 1972 the buy ing and selling rates in both exchange markets were kept unchanged, except dur ing the period June-September, when the rate for the Syrian pound in Beirut appreciated above the parallel market rate and the Commercial Bank of Syria temporarily lowered its parallel market buying rate to a level close to the Beirut rate, but for noncommercial transactions only. January 1. Orders Nos. 559, 570, and 571 of Decem- ber 1971 came into effect. As a result, certain addi- tional types of exchange transactions were shifted from the official to the parallel market. The application of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC the official market rate was restricted in principle to receipts f rom cotton and crude oil exports and oil pipe- line royalties, as well as, temporarily, expenditures of Syrian diplomats, embassies and official delegations abroad, the cost of study, training, and teaching abroad, and payments for certain imports already licensed as payable at the official rate. January 1. The coverage of the Prohibited and Sus- pended Import Lists, which had already been reduced in 1971, was fu r ther narrowed. A number of other measures to ease import restrictions were taken subse- quently, notably in March. June 2. The assets of a major foreign-owned petro- leum company were nationalized. September 26. Agreement was reached with Spain, subject to ratification, to terminate the bilateral pay- ments agreement. The payments agreement was not for- mally terminated in 1972. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.114592 gram of fine gold per Tanzan ia Shilling, corresponding to T Sh 7.75509 = SDR 1 or T Sh 7.14286 = US$1, and Tanzania avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Tanzania deals with the Government and with authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings (except Uganda bank- notes) against Tanzania shillings at par. East African shillings which have ceased to be legal tender, may still be exchanged at par by ho lders in Tanzan ia at all com- mercial banks. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzan ia. Authority for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks, the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the Min- istry of Commerce and Industries. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controllers, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Import applications for most commodities, however, must be submitted through the State Trading Corpora- tion or require the endorsement of another state trad- ing agency. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls; all imports and the principal exports are made by the state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Tanzania has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory under the terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regu- lations considers to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Tanzania shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area cu r rency ;l receipts from such countries must be obtained in Tan- zania shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Tan- zania or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Tanzania to residents of countries outside the Sterling * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Tanzania with effect f rom February 19 changed its par value to 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Tanzania shilling, corresponding to T Sh 8.61675 = SDR 1 or T Sh 7.14286 = US$1. 1 With the exception that personal remittances to residents of Ind ia and Pakistan must be made in the currency of the benef ic iary's country of residence. 458 Area other t h an Rhodes ia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, in Tan- zan ia shillings to the credit of an External Account in Tanzan ia, or in any o ther non-S ter l ing Area currency except Rhodesian currency that is app rop r ia te to the coun t ry of residence of the payee. Receipts from coun- t r ies outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in s te r l ing f rom an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, in Tanzan ia sh i l l ings f rom an External Account in Tanzan ia, or in any other specified cur- rency 2 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regu la t ions app ly to settlements w i th Rhodesia. Remit- tances to South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted, w i th the exception of those for pensions payable by the Government of Tanzan ia or by the East A f r i c an C omm u n i ty organi- zations. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited freely w i th all au thor ized paymen ts to such Sterling Area coun- tries by residents of Tanzan ia, w i th t rans fe rs from other Sterling Area Accoun ts, and w i th the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Tanzan ia of pounds sterling or any other Sterling Area currency. They may be debited freely for paymen ts for exports to other countries in the S ter l ing Area and other paymen ts due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to Tanzanian residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accoun ts in Tanzan ia, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for w i thd rawa ls by the account ho lder w h i le he is tempo- rarily resident in Tanzan ia. Provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area coun try has been ob ta ined, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accoun ts in Tanzania or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Tanzan ia of any non-Sterling Area currency from an authorized dealer. Accounts in Tanzania sh i l l ings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Tanzan ia are, w i th exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Tanzania, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers. Provided th at the permission 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Ceylon rupees, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and all other Sterling Area currencies other than Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the app rop r ia te exchange control au tho r i t ies in a Sterling Area coun t ry has been ob ta ined, Ex ternal Accounts may also be credited w i th t rans fe rs f rom Sterling Area Accoun ts. They may be debited freely for paymen ts to residents of the S ter l ing Area, for transfers to o ther Ex te rnal Accounts in Tanzan ia or in any other Sterling Area coun try, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area cu r renc ies f rom au thor ized dealers. Non t rans fe rab le funds of residents of other countries are credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances on Blocked Accoun ts be long ing to em ig ran ts may be used for the purchase in Tanzan ia of government bonds payable in Tanzan ia sh i l l ings and redeemable not ear l ier than f ive years f rom the da te of acqu i s i t ion; in terest and redemp- tion proceeds are transferab le. Subject to ind iv idual per- mission, such ba lances may also be used for payments to res iden ts not related to export t ransac t ions. Transfers be tween Blocked Accoun ts in Tanzan ia and to Blocked Accoun ts in Kenya and Uganda, requ i re prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some impo r ts to the ma in land f rom all sources are proh ib i ted for reasons of health or security. Certain other impo r ts are not being licensed. Imports originat- ing in Kenya and Uganda are unrestricted but some require specific licenses and others may only be imported by the State Trading Corporation or on its behalf. When imported by private traders, goods other than those listed in the First Schedule of the Open General License of 1972 (which may be imported freely, irrespective of country of origin) require specific import licenses. Goods listed in the Second, Third, Fourth, F if th, and Sixth Schedules may be imported without specific licenses by the agency to which they have been assigned, which for many goods is the State Trading Corporation. All imports to the ma in land from Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzibar. All imports from South A f r ica, me t ropo l i tan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports in to Zanz ibar are made by government agencies. T rans fer taxes are levied on a range of manufac tured goods when imported f rom and originating in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported from and originate in Uganda. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at 10 per cent, 15 per cent, or 20 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue plus import duty. Advance payments for imports are allowed in excep- t ional circumstances only, exchange for import pay- ments norma l ly not being granted until after customs clearance. Most suppliers' credit requires the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are con- trolled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve TANZANIA specified categories of current payments up to estab- lished limits; amoun ts above these limits may be approved adm in is tra t ive ly by the Bank of Tanzania. The approval of the M in is ter for Finance is required where the transfer is proposed of income in excess of T Sh 1 million f rom nonresident-owned investments.3 Facilities exist whereby imm igrant noncitizens work- ing in Tanzan ia und er contract in salaried employment and w i th a firm comm i tment to leave Tanzania even- tua l ly may throughout their period of employment remit abroad up to 33V^ per cent of their monthly salary uncomm i t ted to cover fam i ly ma in tenance, sav- ings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of 33!/3 per cent of salary or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Specified categories of expatriate employees may remit the total amount of the ir salaries. Persons mak ing uncomm i t ted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). There is a basic allowance for travel to countries outside East Afr ica of T Sh 2,000 a person every three years for persons aged 12 or older; half of this amount is available to children aged 3 to 11 years. Travelers to destinations in border countries (Bu rund i, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, the Sudan, Uganda, Zaire, and Zamb ia) are restricted to T Sh 500 a year (T Sh 250 for children of 3 to 11 yea r s ). The use made of the allocation for travel to border countries is set off against the basic tourist allow- ance for travel to other countries. Applications for business, education, and health travel have to be referred to the Bank of Tanzania. Resident travelers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South A f r ica, Portugal, all Portuguese territories, and Rhodesia are prohibited. On the main- land, exports of products dea lt with by state t rad ing organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Re-exports from Zanzibar are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected in specified cur- rencies (see footnote 2) w i th in six mon ths from the date of exportation and must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see foo tno te 2) must be sold to an authorized bank upon 3 With e f fect f rom Janua ry 1, 1973, rem i t tances abroad of p ro f i ts and dividends, which had been suspended since mid-1970, were resumed. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA their collection. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Tanzania shilling notes must not exceed T Sh 100 in value for each re turn ing traveler. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to con- trol by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers require individual exchange con- trol approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immediately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the facility of making uncommitted remittances of savings may trans- fer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 20,000 for each household. All remaining funds must be cred- ited to a Blocked Account or otherwise brought under control; they may then be invested in approved Tan- zanian securities or placed on bank deposit. Income from such investments is transferable upon accrual, and redemption proceeds become transferable upon matu- rity of the securities but not less than five years from the date of purchase. Furthermore, any assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of T Sh 20,000 are remittable in yearly installments of T Sh 20,000 each, after which any remaining amount will be considered for repatriation. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is advisable to have the investment recognized by the Bank of Tanzania or to obtain a certificate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protection) Act, 1963. Foreign and domestic invest- ment in specified types of production require approval under the East Afr ican Licensing Ordinance. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Tanzanian securities f rom residents on a recognized East African stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds on resale. Purchases of securities outside Tan- zania by residents are not normally permitted. All loans or overdraf ts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require exchange control approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tan- zania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of 460 gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are subject to individual licensing. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1972 January 2. The Bank of Tanzania announced that imports would be restricted in line with the new eco- nomic austerity program. January 3. The initial emigration allowance for per- sons leaving Tanzania permanently was reduced f rom T Sh 50,000 to T Sh 20,000 for each household. January 3 and 8. The Bank of Tanzania issued two Notices to Importers setting out revised import regula- tions under the Open General License, 1971. A Fourth Schedule was added to the Open General License, which specified items that could be imported only by or on behalf of the State Trading Corporation, unless the importation of any such goods had been confined to another Corporation. February 1. Government Notice No. 19 amended the First Schedule to the Open General License, 1971 by the addition of certain parts and accessories. March L The Imports Control Ordinance of Febru- ary 28 (Government Notice No. 47) was published. It contained the Open General License, 1972 and revoked the Open General License, 1971. The new Open General License contained seven schedules. The importation of all goods originating in Kenya or Uganda was authorized under the Open General License. Goods listed in the First Schedule could freely be imported, irrespective of the country of origin. Goods listed in the Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Schedules normally could be imported only by or on behalf of specified agencies or organiza- tions; for many goods the prescribed agency was the State Trading Corporation. The Seventh Schedule speci- fied the licensing procedure for goods subject to an import license and the normally prescribed payments procedure for goods covered by the Open General License. March 3. Exchange Control Circular No. 202 with- drew, with effect from February 18, 1972, the authority given to authorized dealers by Circular No. 109 to effect advance payments for imports. Henceforth, pay- ment for imports could only be made after the goods had been cleared through customs, and the establish- ment of import letters of credit required the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Where importers failed to have their suppliers ship the requisite goods on these conditions, importers had to show that alter- native sources had been unsuccessfully sought before they could request the Bank of Tanzania to authorize any advance payment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The Circular also withdrew the authority granted to authorized dealers by Circular No. I ll to effect pay- ment for motor vehicles under home delivery arrange- ments. The Bank of Tanzania would not entertain any application for home delivery cars. June 1. Private sector imports were regulated in accordance with a foreign exchange plan. June 23. Tanzania ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory for the purposes of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. November 1. Exchange Control Circular No. 203 announced that with effect from December 1 imports would be subject to preshipment quality and quantity inspection and price comparison by the General Super- intendence Company Ltd. Importers would be required to produce a Clean Report of Findings before payment for imports could be made. Exempt f rom preshipment inspection and price com- parison were the following: (1) Gold, precious stones, objects of art, explosives, ammun i t ion, weapons, live TANZANIA animals, and fresh fruits and vegetables. (2) Goods procured by the East African Community or its statu- tory corporations. ( 3) Goods procured by the Zanzibar Government or other Zanzibar based importers for direct importation into Zanzibar. (4) Commodities imported from Kenya, Uganda, mainland China, Iraq, North Korea, the Seychelles, and any other country that the Bank of Tanzania might specify. (5) Consign- ments with a value in pro forma invoice of less than T Sh 10,000. (6) Commodities procured by inter- national tender. (7) Commodities procured through the Crown Agents for Overseas Governments and Administrations, London. (8) Commodities involving no payment for the goods to be imported into Tanzania, such as household and personal effects (including a used motor vehicle), gifts, and supplies for diplomatic missions and United Nations organizations. November 1. An Order of the Minister for Finance issued under the Exchange Control Ordinance imposed a fee, payable by the importer, of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value of imports. 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.0393516 gram of fine gold per Thai Bah t, equ iva lent to B 22.5828 = SDR 1 or B 20.800 = US$1. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its operations to spot transac t ions in U. S. do l la rs with commercial banks. As at Decem- ber 30, 1972, the buy ing and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange trans- actions w i th banks in U. S. dollars were B 20.875 buy ing, and B 20.90 selling, per US$1; the authorized banks' rates were B 20.855 buy ing, and B 21.00 selling, per US$1. The authorized banks' rates for sterling are based on their buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar and the New York rates for sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the M in is try of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transac t ions to author- ized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized com- panies) and to authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All out- going payments are subject to approval (given auto- matically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current paymen ts ). Impor ts of gold require a license issued by the M in is try of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the cur- rency to be used for settlements with fo re ign countries; payments are made largely in sterling and related cur- rencies or in U. S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Trans- ferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for fore ign diplomatic entities, international organizations stationed in Thailand, or Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred f rom abroad, with amounts transferred f rom other Transfera- ble Accounts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of for- * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Thailand decided to ma in ta in the rate of B 20.80 = US$1 unchanged. With effect f rom Apr il 10, 1973 the par value was changed to 0.354164 gram of fine gold, corresponding to B 20.80 = US$1. Thailand also availed itself of wider margins. 462 eign currencies for t rans fer abroad, for t ran s fe rs to other Transferable Accounts, for paymen ts in respect of exports, and for any other paymen ts to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accoun ts inc lude pro- ceeds of in s ta l lment sales of books, ren ta ls acc ru ing in Tha i land, f re ight in trans it trade, proceeds f rom sales of assets of em igra t ing residents of Thai na t iona l i ty, and funds th at cannot be iden t i f ied as e l ig ib le for credit to a T rans fe rab le Account. T ran s fe rs of baht f rom Blocked Accounts for the purchase of fo re ign currency, except for certain current paymen ts, are subject to approval by the Bank of Tha i land; approval is granted when no capital t ran s fer on beha lf of a Thai n a t ion al is involved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be impor ted free ly; but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is proh ib i ted. All imports of goods o r ig ina t ing in or shipped f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of tea lea f, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requ irement that the importer purchase a proportionate quan t i ty of the same type of goods pro- duced in Tha i land. Import licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documen ts; the specific approval of the Bank of Tha i land, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance pay- ments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an exp iry date exceeding n ine months. Importers must ob ta in, in addi- tion to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" f rom an authorized agent before imported goods exceed- ing B 10,000 in va lue can be cleared th rough customs; military equipment imported by the M in is t ry of Defense and certain m inor categories of impo r ts are exempt from this requirement. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for invisibles require au tho r iza t ion, wh ich is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand; exchange is provided freely and promptly. Cargo insurance prem iums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income af ter taxes. The t rans fer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, fam i ly maintenance abroad, and educa- tional expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. For foreign travel and family ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution remittances, the amoun ts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are sub ject to ce r ta in m ax imum limits. For persons t rave l ing abroad, au thor ized agents may approve exchange a l lowances not exceeding the equiva- lent of US$630, or US$40 a day for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, addi- tional fo re ign exchange not exceeding one half of the allowance may be ob ta ined in certain cases for en te r ta in- ment expenses. The am o u nt of fo re ign exchange that an authorized bank may sell for f am i ly rem i t tances is US$200 a mon th for each t ran s fe ror for Europe and the Un i ted States and US$150 a mon th for each t ran s fe ror for o ther coun tr ies. Amoun ts above these l im i ts are approved by the Bank of Tha i land upon ve r i f ica t ion. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a f am i ly t r a v e l i ng on one passport) or for- eign currency exceeding US$140 (US$280 for a fam i ly trave l ing on a single passport) w i thout the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Trans it passengers and tour is ts, however, may take out any amount of fore ign exchange w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of p addy are prohibited and all exports or re-exports to Rhodesia require an ind iv idual license. Cer ta in categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination .1 All other commodities may be exported f ree ly, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to ob ta in a "certificate of expor ta t ion" from an authorized agent in order to clear the sh ipm ent th rough customs, as fo l lows: for shipments of tin or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in va lue th rough any customs station, and, w i th m i n or exceptions, for other goods exceeding B 10,000 in va lue th rough any customs station. This cer t if ica te assures repa t r ia t ion of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to au thor ized agents w i t h in 7 days of receipt; the ir sur- render must take place w i th in 15 days f rom the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight b i ll is d rawn for collection, or 15 days a f t er the due da te of a usance b i l l, but not la ter than 180 days a f ter the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or p la t inum o rnamen ts up to any va lue but require a "certificate of expor ta t ion" to take out any other articles w i th a total value in excess of B 10,000. The export of a few types of rice and rice products is subject to export taxes referred to as export prem iums. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom inv is ib les must be sold to an author- ized agent. No person may b r ing in to Tha i land local 1 Gold, p la t inum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified ani- mals, sorghum, corn, rice and rice products, all kinds of suga r, brass and copper in ce r ta in forms, iron scrap and most fo rms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and B u d d ha images and the ir par ts. THAILAND cu r r en cy exceeding B 500 w i t h o ut a pe rm i t, and a f am i ly t r av e l ing on the same passport may not b r ing in more than B 1,000 w i thout a pe rm i t. Travelers may b r ing in any amount in fore ign notes and coins. Capital All ou tward t ran s fe rs of cap i ta l, inc lud ing prem iums on l i fe insurance policies, by residents or nonres iden ts are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the rem i t tance of donations and g i f ts of a reasonable amoun t. Foreign exchange f rom inwa rd capital move- ments must be sold to an au thor ized agent and the purpose of the t r a n s f er mu st be declared. Foreign inves t- ments in Thailand can be accorded p re fe ren t ial treat- ment under Notice No. 227 of the Na t ional Executive Council (issued October 21, 1972 ); this treatment includes a gua ran tee of the t rans fer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repa tr ia t ion. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is no rma l ly gran ted if it can be shown that the f u n ds originated abroad. The con t rac t ing of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Thailand approval. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to fac i l i ta te approval of outward remittances. The pub l ic sector requires the approval of the Na t ional Economic Development Board to negotiate external loans. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewe lry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other th an jewe lry are subject to the fo l low ing arrangemen ts, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any fo rm are restricted and require a license issued by the M in is try of Finance. For gold bullion, the Ministry periodically fixes an authorized quan t i ty of imports; the quota for the two-year period beg inn ing February 4, 1971 is 480,000 troy ounces. A bidding system operates under which the importer o f fe r ing the highest p rem ium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quan t i ty for a certain period. In addition to this prem ium, wh ich accrues to the Governmen t, the importer is requ ired to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the ra te of US$1.75 per troy ounce of gold. The fee is payable in baht at the par value. Exports of gold bu l l ion are pro- hibited, while those of gold o rnamen ts, when not made by fore ign tourists and exceeding B 5,000 in value, require a certificate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presentation to the customs, but bear no export du ty or taxes. Foreign tourists may w i thout a certificate of exportation take out gold ornaments up to any va lue. The conveyance of gold in trans it is not restricted and is free of customs charges. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Changes during 1972 January 1. Exporters were granted refunds, in the fo rm of tax credit notes, on taxes imposed on raw materials and intermediate products to be used in processing goods for export. Such refunds would amount to not more than 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exported industrial goods. January 5. Imports of used trucks weighing four metric tons or more were made subject to licensing. January 24. Transit passengers and tourists could, without prior authorization, take out any amount of foreign exchange or foreign securities. January 25. Imports of gunny bags and gunny cloth required a license. February 22. The amount of local coffee beans and instant coffee to be purchased by importers of coffee was raised f rom 15 per cent to 30 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively, of the total imported amount. May 8 (May 9, local t im e ). The par value of the baht was changed f rom 0.0427245 to 0.0393516 gram of fine gold per baht, equivalent to B 22.5828 = SDR 1. The parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at B 20.8000 = US$1. May 13. The import of polyester fibers not made into long yarn was made subject to import license. May 18. Transit passengers and tourists could take out any amount of precious stones and gold or p la t inum jewelry. August 1. Imports of white cement and white clinker were freed f rom license. August 12. Exports of all types of g lu t inous rice and all preparations of glutinous rice required a license. September 15. The Bank of Thailand, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, signed an agree- ment with the U. S. authorities regarding exports to countries receiving U. S. aid under AID Policy Deter- mination No. 31. The Bank issued regulations governing the rediscount of export bills under this program. October 21. The Promotion of Industrial Investment Act of February 10, 1962 was superseded by Notice No. 227 of the Na t ional Executive Council. The field of promotion was expanded but those entitled to pro- motion must be limited companies or cooperatives, so as to pave the way for the establishment of public com- panies. Certain additional incentives were also granted. November 26. The National Executive Council issued Notice No. 281 laying down rules and regulations governing alien business participation. Businesses under control were classified into three lists. Aliens could not start a new business covered by Lists A or B unless authorized by decree. Aliens could undertake new busi- ness covered by List C if permission was granted by the Director-General of the Commercial Registration Department. Aliens operating businesses prior to the enforcement of this notice and wishing to continue their businesses were required to obtain a certificate f rom the Director- General. Permission could be granted subject to the following conditions: (1) Businesses mentioned in List A could be continued for another two years, af ter which Thai ownership must be increased to a specified ratio of total capital or the business must be liquidated; and (2) The operation of businesses in Lists B and C could be continued indefinitely, but annual production and sales could not be increased by more than 30 per cent, and branches could not be opened w i thout authoriza- tion. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Exchange System * No par value for the currency of Togo has been established w i th the Fund. The u n it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is off ic ia l ly ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c. Exchange transactions in French francs, the in te rven t ion currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange t ran sac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign countries, i.e., coun t r ies o ther than France, Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account coun t r ies of the French Franc Area, take place in a du al exchange market at rates based on the fixed ra te for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange ra te for the fo re ign c u r r e n cy concerned in e i ther the o f f ic ial exchange ma rket or the financial f ranc ma rke t. Se t t lemen ts eligible for the official exchange ma rket are paymen ts and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other cu r rent transac- tions, as well as cu r r ent paymen ts by or in favor of domestic and fore ign pub l ic authorities and public bodies. All other settlements with fore ign countries, as well as transac t ions in bankno tes of fore ign countries and bankno tes issued by the BCEAO, take place through the f inanc ial f r a nc ma rket at f r e e ly f luc tua t ing rates. The p r inc ipal cu r r ent paymen ts and receipts channe led th rough the f inanc ial f r a nc ma rket are those relating to travel expenses, capital ea rn ings, and workers' remit- tances. Exchange rates in the official ma rket are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 = US$1. W i th the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Togo's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all o ther countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Cen tral A f r i c an Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Ma lagasy Republic, Mali, M au r i t an i a, N iger, Senegal, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun tr ies may be made free ly. All other coun tr ies, except Togo i tse lf, are considered foreign coun tr ies, and in pr inc ip le financial re la t ions on ly w i th fo re ign coun t r ies are sub ject to exchange control. * Fo l low ing the announ c em ent on F e b r u a ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. do l lar was b e ing d e v a l u e d, the exchange ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was m a i n t a i n e d, and the e f f e c t ive p a r i ty r e l a t io n s h ip for the U. S. dollar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. The rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was also m a i n t a i n ed on Ma rch 19, 1973 wh en new exchange ra te a r rangemen ts be tween the French f r a nc and c e r t a in o ther currenc ies came i n to e f f e c t. 11 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Cen tra le des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct inves tment and a ll ou tw a rd inves tmen t, and the so l ic i t- ing of funds in Togo for placement in fore ign coun- tries. Some of the approval au thor i ty in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the in termed iary of the banks and the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, any i n f o rm a t i on neces- sary to compile the ba lance of paymen ts statistics. All exchange transactions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Secretariat of State attached to the Presidency and in charge of Com- merce, Indus t ry, and P lann ing, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in i s t ry of F inance and Economy. Prescription of Currency Togo is an Operations Account coun try of the French Franc Area; since the BCEAO ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settle- ments w i th France ( inc lud ing its Overseas Departments and Territories except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f rancs, French f r an c s, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made th rough cor- respondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun tr ies or in French f r an cs th rough Foreign or Financial Accounts in Francs. Cer ta in settlements w i th Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions p e r t a in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or bankno tes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that m a i n t a i ns an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treasury is not perm i t ted, except for credits to Financial Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, wh ich may be credited w i th BCEAO bankno tes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those corresponden ts. Imports and Import Payments Most impo r ts of Rhodes ian origin and all impor ts of Por tuguese or Sou th A f r i c an o r ig in are p roh ib i ted. Impo r ts f r om c o u n t r i es in the French F ranc Area 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO may be made f ree ly, but requ i re the prior au tho r iza t ion of the Secretariat of State attached to the Presidency and in charge of Commerce, Indus t ry, and P lann ing, when va lued at CFAF 10,000 or more and destined for commercial purposes. Impor ts f rom all other coun- tries require ind iv idual import licenses when va lued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In pr inc ip le, the licenses are to be g ran ted in accordance w i th an import program which is to be established each year and which may inc lude recommendations by a jo int French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Economic Cooperation Agreement w i th France; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses f rom all sources are granted. There are no fo rm al import f ree lists. The issuance of import licenses for pr in ted piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a q u a n t i ty of the local product equal to the q u a n t i ty to be imported; in practice, this requ i rement is no longer enforced. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened or eight days before the pay- ment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip for any number of trips a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after re turn to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make 466 paymen ts abroad, th rough an au thor ized bank, of up to CFAF 50,000 per t r an s f e r. Res ident and nonresident t rave le rs going to fo re ign coun tr ies may take out up to a m a x im um of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French bankno tes, and bankno tes issued by other Oper- ations Account countries. Trave lers to other countries may take out any am o u nt in BCEAO bankno tes but if going to a c o u n t ry that is not a member of the West A f r i c an Mone ta ry Un ion they mu st declare to the cus- toms the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonres ident t rave le rs may take out fo re ign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en t ry 2 or, if no dec la ra t ion has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Non re s ident travelers may also free ly take out any amount of letters of credit and t rave le rs checks d rawn up in the ir names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Expor ts to all coun tr ies requ i re licenses. Certain expor ts to Rhodesia and all exports to Po r tugal and South A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted. OPAT (Office des produ i ts agricoles du Togo) has a monopo ly over the export of cacao, coffee, co t ton, g roundnu t s, and ce r ta in other commodities. Export proceeds received in currenc ies other th an those of France or a n o t h er Opera t ions Account c o u n t ry must be su r rende red; au thor ized dia- mond pu r ch a s ing offices, however, may re ta in such for- eign cu r r en cy proceeds in fo re ign cu r rency accounts w i th au thor ized b anks in Togo. All export transac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign countries must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized b ank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in inv is ib les w i th France, Monaco, and o ther Operations Account countries in the French F ranc Area may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other coun t r ies in respect of services, and all income ea rned in those countries f rom fore ign assets, must be collected and su r rende red w i t h in one mon th of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi- dent and non res ident trave lers may b r i ng in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any in s t i tu te of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fore ign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of coun tr ies outside the French Franc Area. Resident trave lers must w i t h in eight days sell to an authorized b ank any fo re ign bankno tes and foreign currency travelers checks they br ing in in excess of CFAF 5,000. 2 This amount is ad jus ted for ( 1) the amount of fore ign cu r rency sold for CFA francs; and (2) for any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a F inanc ial Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Cu r rency, (b) the conversion of fo re ign currency travelers checks, etc. made out in the name of the trave ler, and (c) any repurchases of fore ign currency (pe rm i t ted up to CFAF 175,000) w i th CFA francs resu l t ing f rom the sale of fo r e ign cu r rency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Cer ta in cap i tal t r a n s f e rs to Rhodesia are prohibited. Cap i tal movemen ts between Togo and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc Area are f ree of exchange control; capital trans- fe rs to all o ther coun t r ies require exchange control app roval by the M in is ter of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries a re pe rm i t ted f ree ly. Special con t ro ls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts t h at may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over bo r row ing abroad, over inwa rd direct investment and all ou twa rd inves tmen t, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo re ign secur i t ies in Togo, and over the so l ic i t ing of f u n ds in Togo for placing abroad; these con tro ls re la te to the transactions them- selves, not to paymen ts or receipts. W i th the exception of those over fo re ign securities and those over the so l ic i t ing of f u n ds in Togo, these control measures do not app ly to re la t ions w i th France and its Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Terr i tor ies (except the French Terri- tory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, the other member coun t r ies of the West A f r i c an Mone tary Union, and those o ther coun t r ies whose in s t i tu te of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. There also are special controls applicable to all countries o ther t h an Togo w i th respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Finance and Economy.^ Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Togo 4 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects sub- m i t ted to him. The total or par t ial liquidation of any inward direct inves tment or any ou tward investment also requires pr ior declaration to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each opera t ion. Direct inves tmen ts are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issu ing, adve r t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale, of for- eign secur i t ies in Togo requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of F inance and Economy. Exempt from 3 I n c l u d i ng those made t h r o u gh the in te rmed ia ry of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under fore ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Togo of fore ign companies. TOGO au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a gua ran tee f rom the Togo- lese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in Togo has previously been authorized. Borrow ing by residents f rom non re s iden ts requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; ( 2) loans contracted by registered banks; ( 3) loans taken up either by indus t r ial f irms to f inance works abroad or by in te rna t ional merchanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain cir- cumstances, any other loans, provided that the outstand- ing amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign bor- rowing, whe ther authorized or exempt f rom authoriza- tion, requires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt fom this requ irement are loans constituting a direct inves tmen t, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lend ing abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. The lending of CFA francs to nonresi- dents for periods of up to two years, however, is freely permitted. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, ce r ta in fiscal benef i ts are accorded to specified new inves tment (foreign and domestic) in both new and ex is t ing enterprises. Also, cer ta in en terpr ises, in accord- ance w i th the ir impor tance to the economic develop- ment of Togo, may be granted by the Governmen t, for a specified number of years, special privileges re la t ing to the ma in tenance of ex is t ing taxes and the exemp t ion f r om import duties on a large numb er of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (Law No. 65-10 of Ju ly 21, 1965) applicable to both fo re ign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special f o u n d i ng agree- ment (convention d'etablissemenf) by wh ich they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that unde r take to invest at least CFAF 20 m i l l ion may receive a guaran tee in respect of the ir taxa t ion over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free t rans fer abroad of cap i tal invested in Togo and of all inves tment income therefrom.5 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Togo. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun try requ ire prior au tho r iza- 5 The Inves tment Law was amended a f ter the end of 1972 by Ordi- nance No. 2 of J a n u a ry 10, 1973. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO tion by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles contain- ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1972 January 6. The limits imposed on September 6, 1971 on the authorized banks' net overall position in fore ign currencies and in f rancs vis-a-vis foreign countries were l i f ted. April 25. C ircu lar No. 274 of the Division of Com- merce stated that w i th effect f rom May 15 all com- mercial imports valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and originating in the French Franc Area required the prior approval of the Secretariat of State attached to the Presidency and in charge of Commerce, Indus t ry, and P lann ing. May 25. C i rcu lar No. 13 increased the amount beyond which imports from foreign countries must be domiciled from CFAF 125,000 to CFAF 500,000. May 25. Circular No. 14 specified the conditions under wh ich paymen ts abroad could be made for imports valued at less than CFAF 500,000. July 5. Circular No. 16 increased the amount beyond which exports to foreign countries must be domiciled f rom CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 500,000. July 5. Following a s im i lar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, Order No. 222 shifted a number of current transactions f rom the financial f ranc market to the official exchange ma rke t. The principal current payments and receipts that con t inued to be channeled through the financial f r a nc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, and workers' remittances. September 8. Order No. 321 increased the exchange allocation for tourist travel from the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip for two trips a year to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip for any number of trips a year. The m ax imum allocation for business travel was increased f rom the equ iva lent of CFAF 200,000 to CFAF 400,000 a person a trip. The amount of for- eign banknotes not declared upon en try that nonresi- dent travelers could f ree ly take out was increased from the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000 to CFAF 175,000. September 8. Circular No. 19 increased f rom the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 to CFAF 50,000 the amount up to which residents could at any time and w i thout ind ica t ing the purpose make transfers abroad. September 8. Circular No. 20 modified the amounts of domestic and foreign means of payment that resi- dent and nonresident travelers could take out. Resident travelers hencefor th could take up the ir tourist travel allocation in the fo rm of travelers checks denominated in French f rancs. The use abroad of credit cards, previ- ously prohibited, now was perm i t ted up to half the amount of a tourist or business t ravel allocation. 468 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Trinidad and Tobago dollar, corresponding to TT$2 = SDR 1 or TT$ 1.84211 = US$1, and Trinidad and Tobago avails itself of wider margins. No transactions take place at the par value, however. A fixed relation- ship w i th sterling is maintained of TT$4.80 = <£ stg. 1, and all transactions except those in sterling and cur- rencies directly linked to sterling take place at fluctuat- ing rates. The Central Bank quotes daily rates at which it stands ready to deal with the commercial banks in certain foreign currencies as well as the rates at which the commercial banks must operate with the public in these currencies in transactions not exceeding TT$ 100,000.! For transactions in excess of TT$ 100,000 the commercial banks are required to quote rates to the pub l ic not less favorab le than those fixed by the Central Bank for smaller transactions. Foreign exchange trans- actions th rough the Central Bank are for amounts of TT$25,000 and above and are subject to exchange charges up to a max imum of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers; at present the rates charged by the Central Bank to commercial banks are Vz of 1 per cent on outward t rans fe rs and nil on inward transfers. Ster- ling exchange transactions through commercial banks are subject to va ry ing exchange charges according to the amount and mode of transfer. The banks maintain fixed exchange rates of TT$4.80 = £1 and EC$4.80 = <£! (see below) and charge commissions of % of 1 per cent and V ie of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and purchases of telegraphic transfers of £50,000 or more. The Cen t ral Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. do l lar on December 30, 1972 (inclusive of exchange charges) were TT$204.43 and TT$205.49 per US$100. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty (East Caribbean dollars) and the central banks of Jamaica and Guyana are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but as a result of an arrange- ment with the monetary authorities in those areas the notes are purchased by the mone tary au tho r i t ies at par and are repa tr ia ted by them in re turn for reciprocity of t rea tment w i th respect to notes of the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago. The East Caribbean dollar has * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being deva lued, the relationship of TT$4.80 = £ stg. 1 was ma in ta ined and the T r in idad and Tobago do l lar con t inued to f loat w i th s ter l ing. 1 The cu r renc ies for wh i ch the Cen t ral Bank quo tes da i ly ra tes are Canad ian do l lars, deu tsche m a rk, F rench f ranc s, Japanese yen, pounds s ter l ing, Swiss f ranc s, and U. S. dollars, in addition to Guyana do l lars, Jama ica dollars, and East Ca r ibbean dollars. a fixed relationship to sterling of EC$4.80 = £1.2 This corresponds to a relationship to the U. S. dollar of EC$ 1.8421 = US$1. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Gov- ernment. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority with respect to import payments to certain officials of the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce and with respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for compul- sory surrender of foreign cu r r en cy3 and for control over both cu r rent and capital transactions.4 All over- seas paymen ts and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the gran t ing of credit, loan, or ove rd ra ft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresident-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regula- tions con t inues to be regarded as a country of the Over- seas Sterling Area. In practice, settlements with resi- dents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made only in sterling or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized paymen ts, including paymen ts for imports, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Ster- ling Area, or by crediting an External Account in Trini- dad and Tobago dollars, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in sterling f rom an Ex ternal Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by deb i t ing an External Account in 2 The East Ca r ibbean dollar was issued on October 6, 1965 by the East Car ibbean Cu r rency Au tho r i ty, pu r su ant to the East Caribbean Cu r rency Ag reement of 1965, to replace the West Ind ian do l lar at par. The East Caribbean dollar is the mone ta ry un it of A n t i g u a, Barbados, Dominica, Mon tse r ra t, St. K i t ts-Nev is-Angu i l la, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Grenada. :i Und er Tr in idad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currenc ies o ther t h an the Tr in idad and Tobago do l lar are considered fo r e ign currenc ies. 4 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts and paymen ts in fo re ign currenc ies, permission may be g ran ted for the re ten t ion of a por t ion of receipts in a Foreign Cur- rency Accoun t, subject to the requ i rement that periodic statements of credits and deb i ts to the Account mu st be subm i t ted to the au thor i t ies. 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO T r in idad and Tobago do l lars, or in any specified cur- rency r> other than Rhodesian currency. Special regula- t ions app ly to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonres ident accoun ts: Exter- nal Accoun ts and Blocked Accounts/5 External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonres iden ts of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with paymen ts by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control au thor i t ies; with transfers from o ther Ex te rnal Accoun ts; and with proceeds f rom the sale of gold and fore ign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Tr in idad and Tobago; for t ran s fe rs to other External Accounts; and for purchases of fo re ign currencies. The f u n ds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account s ter l ing or any other fore ign currency and may be t ran s fe r red f ree ly between residents of countries outside Tr in idad and Tobago, with the excep- tion that t ran s fe rs f rom External Accounts held by residents of the Sterling Area to any country outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are cond i t ional upon the Cen tral Bank being satisfied that the exchange control au thor i t ies of the holder's coun t ry of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., pro- ceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago, or proceeds f rom the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within f o ur years f rom the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at ma tu r i ty of any that are redeemable, are available for credit to an Ex ternal Accoun t. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for imports from South Africa. Most imports from other countries are free of quantitative restriction. For import control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: (1) Albania, Bulgaria, main- land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, Yugoslavia, and the U. S. S. R.; and (2) all other countries, including 5 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kya ts, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, South Afr ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f ranc s, and U. S. dollars. G On November 15, 1971 the nonresident accounts maintained for residents of the Sterling Area, designated as Sterling Area Accounts, were redesignated and merged with those maintained for nonresidents of the Sterling Area, designated as External Accounts. 470 the Un i ted K ingdom but excepting Rhodesia and South A f r ica. The import regu la t ions include proh ib i t ion or string- ent con tro l, state t rad ing, ind iv idual licensing, and open general license arrangemen ts. (1) Some of the main imports that are prohibited or are subject to s t r ingent con trol are cosmetics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, mechan ical gamb l ing devices, beer in con ta ine rs other than ten ounce glass bottles and cans, and complete passenger automobiles. Fire- arms, amm u n i t i o n, narcotics, and certain other goods are either proh ib i ted or r ig id ly controlled for secur i ty and hea l th reasons. (2) Cer ta in produc ts covered by the Ag r icu l tu ral Ma rke t ing Protocol of the Car ibbean Free Trade Asso- ciation (CAR I FTA ), as we ll as imported rice in bulk are the only commodities sub ject to state trading. This rice is norma l ly imported f rom Guy ana under govern- ment contracts, at agreed prices.7 (3) All commodities other than those specified under (1) and (2) above are imported under either an indi- v idual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the coun tr ies from wh ich the commodities are impor ted. (a) Imports from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, Yugoslavia, and the U. S. S. R. All imports f rom these countries require a specific license. In practice, licenses are granted freely for imports from Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia of commodities not on the "negative" list mentioned under (b) below. For the other countries in this group, licenses are granted only for essential goods. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rho- desia and South Africa. For imports from these coun- tries, a "negative" list is published which lists all goods subject to ind iv idual licensing. (Specific licenses are usually not required for the importation of such goods, however, when they qualify for preferential treatment within the CARIFTA, of which Trinidad and Tobago is a member.) All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises over 400 tar iff items. Licenses for these items may be issued by the M in i s t ry of Indus try and Commerce, depend ing on the supply position of the domestic indus t ry. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports from countries other than those under (a) above, no discrimi- nation is practiced because of the coun try of origin or the currency involved, w i th the exception that CARIFTA comm i tmen ts are taken into account. Payments for all imports require an exchange license. If prescription of currency regulations are complied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction 7 Packaged rice may be imported th rough no rmal commercial chan- nels, but such imports are not usually allowed f rom countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen- tary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where paymen ts to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are con- cerned. U n d er a u t h o r i ty delegated by the Governmen t, the authorized banks may approve applications for fo re ign exchange w i th in prescribed l im i ts for certain invisibles. When add i t ional amounts are needed, the approval of the au thor i t ies is required and this is granted provided that unau tho r ized capital transfers are not involved. The basic a l lowance for tourist travel is TT$2,000 a person a year.* Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export pa rt or all of the ir basic travel allowance (TT$2,000) in fore ign cu r rency notes. Non- residents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on de- pa r tu re, take out fo re ign cu r rency notes up to the amount b rought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. Exports of cer- tain listed goods require an individual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products (about 40 tar iff items) not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies to export without specific licenses. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a por- tion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum com- panies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate for- eign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign cur- rency which are inherent parts of their businesses. These s Reduced to TT$1,200 a person a year with effect from March 12, 1973. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits and transfers of legacies are permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emi- gration allowances are approved up to specified limits. Fur thermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARIFTA countries are permitted liberally. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposi- tories have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Con trac tual amo r t iza t ion on sterling securities is per- mitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. Nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago after Janu- ary 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may t ran s fer prescribed securities to per- sons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, pro- vided that the full proceeds of sale are received in for- eign currency or sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. Foreign exchange is not normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irre- deemable or not redeemable within four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Pros- pective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must satisfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of any cur- rency other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar (not necessarily the original currency of investment), or alternatively, that if any loss is involved it can be justi- fied in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incen- tive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substitution industries. This provides for the granting of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer indus- tries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being con- ducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for which there are favorab le prospects for f u t u re development. Every pioneer manufacturer is entitled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privi- leges. The proceeds (including capital gains) realized from part or all of a direct capital investment made after January 1, 1950 by a nonresident of Trinidad and Tobago in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The investment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the following ways: in foreign currency (including sterling) appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied f rom the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions: (a) The right will not normally apply to the pur- chase of shares on a stock exchange unless this pur- chase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project. (b) When an investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may g rant finance to nonresident ind iv idua ls and firms (o ther than residents of other CARIFTA countries) and to nonres iden t-con tro l led local companies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement the ir assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must ma in ta in the mon th ly average of its net foreign exchange position w i th in a specified quan t i ta t ive ceiling. 472 Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act, 1970 as gold coin and bu l l ion. The regulations provide that, except w i th specific exemptions and permissions granted by the M in i s ter of Finance: (1) one pa r ty to every transaction in gold between residents must be an author- ized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surren- dered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is adminis- tered by the M in is t ry of Indu s t ry and Commerce by regulations scheduled und er the Trade Ordinance, 1958. Imports of gold jewe l ry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewe lry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Indu s t ry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and author- ized indus t r ial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally gran ted except to the mone tary authorities. Imports of un re f ined gold are subject to import du ty at 5 per cent (p r e f e r en t i al d u t y) or 15 per cent (general duty), and those of pa r t ly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferential du ty) or 25 per cent (general duty). They are free of pu rchase tax. Changes during 1972 Du r ing the year a number of commodities were added to those requiring a specific import license. January 4. Trinidad and Tobago availed itself of wider margins. The Central Bank began quoting daily rates at which it undertook to operate in certain foreign currencies with the commercial banks, and established rates at which the commercial banks were to deal with the public in transactions not exceeding TT$ 100,000. No rmal fore ign exchange transactions were resumed. (Since December 20, 1971, banks had only been per- mitted to deal in foreign exchange for the account of the Central Bank and for a limited range of transac- tions. ) January 10. The Government announced new guide- lines for new and existing fore ign investments in Trini- dad and Tobago. January 12. The Exchange Control (Lending to Banks and Other Financial Institutions) Exemption Order, 1972 was issued, retroactive to November 15, 1971. The Order exempted the lending of money or securities by residents to specified nonresident-controlled banks and other financial institutions in Trinidad and Tobago f rom the provisions of Section 33 of the Exchange Control Act, 1970. May 18. The ceilings applicable to commercial bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO loans and advances to nonresident or nonresident- controlled individuals and firms were raised by 20 per cent. June 23. Trinidad and Tobago ceased to be a Sched- uled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. June 23. The Central Bank suspended the authority granted to the commercial banks to deal in gold and foreign exchange, although the banks were permitted to deal in foreign exchange for the account of the Central Bank for a limited range of transactions. Nor- mal foreign exchange transactions were resumed on Ju ly 3. July 3. It was announced that the official relationship with sterling of TT$4.80 = <£ 1 would be maintained. As a result, the Trinidad and Tobago dollar began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for which had been TT$ 1.84211 = US$1. November 27. The payment of principal and interest in respect of the Trinidad and Tobago Government Euro-dollar loan (1972-80) were exempted from the provisions of the Exchange Control Act, 1970 and any regulations made thereunder. This action was in line with the concessions in respect of other loans raised externally by the Government. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tunisian Dinar, corresponding to D 0.525 = SDR 1 or D 0.483552 = US$1, and Tunisia avails itself of wider margins. Buy ing and selling rates for the French franc ( the commercial f ranc and the financial f r a n c) and cer- tain other convertible currencies 1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. The buy ing and selling rates of the authorized banks are iden t ical w i th those of the Central Bank. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, inc lud ing the au thor iza t ion of paymen ts for impo r ts and invisibles; some au tho r i ty is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Trade Division of the M in i s t ry of Economic A f fa i r s, wh ich establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Suppliers' credits are screened by the Directorate-General of External F inance in the M in i s t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency For payment purposes, countries are classified as fol- lows: ( 1) the bilateral group, comprising countries with which Tunisia has concluded bilateral payments agree- ments (Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Eastern Germany, Hungary, India, Poland, Ro- mania, and the U. S. S. R.) and (2) the area of con- vertibility, comprising all other countries. Settlements with countries in the bilateral group are made in clear- ing dollars with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, East- ern Germany, Hungary, Poland, and Romania, in rupees with India, in Tunisian dinars with the U. S. S. R., and in Swiss agreement francs with main- land China; settlements with countries in the area of convertibility are generally made in convertible cur- rencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in Tunisian dinars through the accounts of residents of those countries. Payments for imports must normally be made, in accordance with the foregoing, on the basis of the country of origin. Certain settlements between Tunisia and Morocco may be effected through accounts at the two central banks. Under a triangular compensa- tion agreement with Bulgaria and India, settlements are cleared through a Special Account at the Bank of Bul- garia. Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Tunisia maintained its par value unchanged in terms of gold. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became D 0.435197 = US$1. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Libyan dinars, Netherlands guilders, No rweg ian k rone r, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 474 Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of countries in the area of convertibility. They may be credited freely with payments for autho- rized imports f rom these countries and with proceeds f rom sales to the Cen tral Bank of conver t ib le currencies. They may be debited f r e e ly for paymen ts of any k ind to residents of Tunisia and for the purchase of foreign exchange f rom the Cen tral Bank. T rans fe rs between these accounts and f rom these accounts to Foreign Ac- counts in Bilateral D inars may be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of coun t r ies of the b i l a t e r al group. They may be credited free ly w i th paymen ts for au thor ized imports f rom these coun t r ie s, w i th proceeds f rom sales to the Central Bank of conve r t ib le currencies, and w i th trans- fers f r om Foreign Accoun ts in Convertible D inars. They may be debited f ree ly for paymen ts to residents of Tunisia. T rans fe rs between Foreign Accounts in B i la teral Dinars related to the same c o u n t ry may also be made free ly. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used ma in ly by fore ign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in anticipation of investment in Tun is ia; f u n ds in these accounts may at any time be t ran s fe r red to the coun t ry of origin. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any coun try. The opening of a Capital Account by a non- resident of Tunisian na t iona l i ty must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may also hold Capital Accounts. Capital Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of l iqu ida t ion of foreign investments and other assets, with debt repayments and amortization of con- tractual obligations not covered by a retransfer guaran- tee, and with any assets in excess of bank balances up to D 4,000 owned by foreign nationals leaving Tunisia permanently. These accounts may be debited for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in com- panies, and real estate. Accounts held by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area may not be debited for personal expenses w i thout authorization, while those held by residents of the French Franc Area may be debited freely for the personal expenses of the account holder and of his family up to D 25 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 500 for each account a year. Some of the above operations may be made freely through the in te rmed ia ry of authorized banks, while certain others (e.g., debits resulting f rom the purchase of business concerns or securities not admitted to the Tunisian stock exchange and all credits not relating to real estate transactions) requ ire the authorization of the Central Bank. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended ma in ly for foreigners s tay ing temporar i ly in Tunisia and gainfully employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of credit- ing all proceeds acc ru ing in Tunisia to nonres iden ts which may not be credited to other non res ident accounts either in accordance w i th a general or an ind iv idu al license of the Cen t ral Bank of Tun is ia. These accounts may also be credited upon depa r tu re w i th b ank balances and sales proceeds of real estate owned by fore ign nationals leaving Tunisia pe rmanen t ly; the t ran s fer abroad of such f u n ds is no rm a l ly pe rm i t ted up to D 4,000, and the rema inder is d irec ted to a Capital Accoun t. Suspense Accoun ts may be deb i ted w i t h o ut the prior au tho r iza t ion of the Cen t ral Bank in respect of purchases of Tun is ian securities, subscr ip t ions to issues of short-term deben tu res or bonds, paymen ts to the Tunisian Government or pub l ic ins t i tu t ions, and settle- ment of l iv ing expenses incu r red in Tunisia by the account holder (provided that he is a resident of the French Franc A r e a) or his fam i ly up to D 25 a person a week and not exceeding D 500 a year for any one fam i ly. All other debits to these accounts require the ind iv idual au thor iza t ion of the Cen tral Bank of Tun is ia. Savings Accounts in Foreign Currency may be main- ta ined w i th the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i on in the names of Tun is ian na t iona ls who are work ing abroad. These accounts may be credited w i th the coun te rva lue of a portion of the holder's fo re ign c u r r e n cy ea rn ings. They may be deb i ted f ree ly. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts f rom Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited, and the fo l low ing does not apply to these countries. Import licenses are required for all impo r ts except those on importers' cards or import certificates and im- ports under an a n n u al import au thor iza t ion. All import applications must be submitted for the approval (avis technique) of the competent ministry or government agency. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for all imports, irrespective of origin, that are financed with suppliers' credits. Import licenses must be approved by the Trade Division of the Minis- try of Economic Affa irs and by the Central Bank, which authorizes the corresponding payment. Imports f rom the French Franc Area, other than those covered by bilateral or global quotas or by an import prohibi- tion, are in principle free f rom licensing and require only a payments authorization from the Central Bank. In practice, however, all applications for payments authorizations are submitted by the Central Bank to the Trade Control Division for prior endorsement. Certain imports are regulated by arrangements which apply to all countries: (1) "Prohibited" imports may be licensed in exceptional circumstances, at the discre- tion of the authorities. (2) Some 25 commodities or groups of commodities are licensed against annual global quotas. (3) Certain spare parts and a few other commodities may be imported free of license against TUNISIA the presentation of an importer's card, up to D 500 a year for each importer. (4) Some 200 listed commodi- ties or groups of commodities, may be imported freely and without license by industrialists, traders, crafts- men, and fa rme rs for their own use, against the com- pletion of an "import certificate." (5) Imports required by manu fac tu re rs for their own use are licensed under annual import authorizations. Bilateral quotas are fixed annua l ly for certain imports f rom France not covered by any of the five arrange- ments outlined above. Imports under these quotas require licenses. The quotas cover such goods as per- fume ry and cosmetics, toilet soap, clothing, air condi- tioners, washing and drying machines, and motor cars. In addition, special procedures apply to certain other imports from France that are affected by Tunisia's Association Agreement with the EEC; such commodi- ties also require a license when imported from France (see below). All other imports f rom France, and all imports from other countries in the French Franc Area unless cov- ered by one of the five procedures outlined above, require only a payments authorization from the Central Bank which, in principle, is issued freely but in prac- tice is not issued without the prior endorsement of the Trade Control Division. Certain imports from Algeria are admitted freely and are exempt from customs duty. All imports not covered by one of the arrange- ments described above, when originating in countries ou ts ide the French Franc Area w i th wh ich Tunisia does not ma in ta in bilateral paymen ts agreements, are regulated as follows (subject to fu r ther special arrange- men ts that apply to imports from EEC coun tr ies): impo rt licenses for goods included in a liberalized list are in principle issued freely, wh i le all other goods are licensed w i th in quo tas under bilateral trade agreements, or on a more discretionary basis when originating in countries with which no agreement is in force.2 In addition to the above arrangements, there are cer- ta in special procedures for impor ts of specified goods o r ig ina t ing in member countries of the EEC. Imports from countries w i th wh ich Tunisia ma in- ta ins bilateral p a ym e n ts agreemen ts are licensed within b i l a t e r a l ly agreed quo ta limits unless the goods are among the few for wh i ch global quo tas have been set. Imports of specified commodities are licensed in such a manner as to ensure the utilization of tied foreign aid. Cer ta in commod i t ies are imported under state trad- ing. These inc lude goods subject to government monop- olies, e.g., tobacco, matches, p lay ing cards, and imports f rom the United States under U. S. P.L. 480. In addi- t ion, cer ta in gove rnment agencies, of which the ma in one is the Office du Commerce, have been granted a monopoly over the import of commod i t ies fa l l ing w i th in * Countries with which bilateral trade agreements are in force i n c l u de most Eu rop e an OECD coun tr ies, in add i t ion to the countries w i th w h i ch p a ym e n ts agreemen ts have been conc luded (see section on P r e s c r i p t i on of C u r r e n c y, above ). 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, specified fruits, etc.). Moreover, certain other commodities, such as timber, paper, and certain metallurgical products, may be imported only by importers who are members of an importers' association. Imports by such associa- tions and by state agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements as those applicable to private imports. To obtain an import license, importers must be listed in the commercial register and must have received a code number. All import documents involving payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. In addition to customs duties, a number of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles th is authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved freely, provided that they are properly docu- mented. These include various payments related to inter- national trade (e.g., port services, wa rehous ing, com- missions, brokerage, and charges and profits related to transit operations) and paymen ts for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses, as well as payments of interest and amortization arising from contractual obligations to nonresidents. Approval is also given for remittances of profits and dividends due to nonresidents. Indus t r ial and export companies are permitted to d is tr ibu te d iv idends to their shareholders free ly, and commercial companies up to 10 per cent of their paid-up capital and reserves, pro- vided that over 50 per cent of the share capital of such companies is owned by residents. These companies require only the approval of the Central Bank for the rem i t tance of d iv idends; such approval is given promp t ly. All companies not mee t ing the above criteria require first the prior approval of the Central Bank for the dis- tr ibu t ion of d iv idends. Once such approval is obtained, the au tho r iza t ion to remit the profits abroad is also given promp t ly. In addition, exporters ho ld ing balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these free ly for expenditures abroad in connection w i th pa r t ic ipa t ion in in te rna t ional trade fairs, and for customs du t ies and other expenses related to sh ipment of exports to France. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use EFAC balances freely for pub- l i c i ty expenses abroad, and up to f ixed l im i ts (see below) for certain other expenses. Enterprises pro- ducing for export may freely make certain payments for invisibles. Paymen ts for ce r ta in other cu r rent invisibles are approved up to fixed l im i ts. Residents t rave l ing abroad as tou r is ts are en t i t led once a year to an exchange allo- cation equ iva lent to D 50 a person (D 25 for children 476 under t en ). The allocation may be taken up in the form of foreign banknotes, the export of which is sub- ject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Foreign exchange is also sold for living expenses of Tunisians s tudy ing abroad, up to the equ iva lent of D 50 a month for s tudy in France, and up to D 57 a mon th for other countries ( for study in the United States, amounts in excess of the latter allocation are authorized on a case- by-case bas is). These amoun ts are additional to the cost of tu i t ion fees. Exporters and hotel owners holding EFAC accounts may use such balances up to the equiv- alent of D 1,000 a year for business travel abroad; the use of excess amounts by exporters may be approved by the Central Bank in certain circumstances, depend- ing on the magnitude of their exports. Foreign nationals employed in Tunisia by private or semipublic com- panies may t rans fer up to 50 per cent of their monthly wages or salaries, subject to a max imum of D 100 a mon th if their fam i ly lives in Tunisia or D 150 a month if they do not have their fam i ly w i th them. Foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer abroad 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. The reconversion of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per cent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a maximum of D 100. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports to other par ts of the French Franc Area and liberalized exports not exceed- ing D 50 to other countries do not require a license. All other exports require export licenses. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du Vin and the export of cereals is the monopoly of the Office des Cereales. The export of olive oil is the monopoly of the Office National de 1'Huile. For all exports, with the exception noted below, exporters must give an under- taking to repatriate the exchange proceeds; the repatria- tion must ordinarily take place within 15 days from the date payment is due and in any event within 100 days from the date of shipment unless otherwise allowed by the Central Bank. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires) accounts the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds. For exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following shipment. Exporters' balances on EFAC accounts are not subject to limitation. For hotel owners, credits are limited to 2 per cent of their foreign exchange pro- ceeds, and cannot exceed D 1,000 a year. Balances in EFAC accounts may be used fu l ly for specified pay- ments abroad. The accounts may be maintained in con- vertible or bilateral dinars, depending on the currency surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Under the provisions of Law No. 27-38 of April 27, 1972, nonresident manufacturing enterprises (i.e., enter- prises whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent through the import of convertible currencies) pro- ducing exclusively for export are exempt from the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad, inc lud ing residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc Area. However, Tunisian na t iona ls who are working abroad may retain the coun terva lue of their foreign currency earnings in convertible dinar accounts. Foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely but must be declared upon entry. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents, inc lud ing residents of o ther coun- tries of the French Franc Area, who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tun is ian authorities in order to secure the gua ran tee for the t rans fer of pr inc ipal of, and cu r rent earnings f rom, such inves tmen ts. Foreign inves tment in Tunisia may obtain certain benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35) of J u ne 26, 1969. These include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate capital and to transfer profits. Furthermore, Law No. 27-38 of April 27, 1972 provides for various special benefits for nonresident manufacturing enter- prises, including an exemption from the repatriation requirement in respect of export proceeds. All fore ign na t iona ls who have been residents of Tun is ia may upon leaving Tunisia permanen t ly have their domestic b ank balances credited to Suspense Accounts; the same applies to all proceeds f rom the liquidation of fo re ign inves tmen ts not covered by a t rans fer gu a r an t ee (e.g., personal real es ta te ). The con- version in to foreign exchange of the amoun ts deposited is then authorized, after verification, up to D 4,000. All cap i tal t rans fe rs by Tun is ian na t iona ls require the approval of the Central Bank. The purchase by Tun is ian res iden ts of fore ign securities on foreign stock exchanges is, in pr inc ip le, forb idden; in some instances, au tho r iza t ion is granted for a resident to subscribe abroad to a share issue by an enterprise in which he is a lready a shareholder. Gold Five gold coins issued for commemorative purposes are legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold TUNISIA coins in Tunisia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By virtue of Law No. 63-46 of December 19, 1963, the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold in any form other than jewelry and over the sale of unworked gold to domestic indus- trial users, jewelers, hand icraft workers, and dentists. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1972 February 4. Notice No. 116 increased the number of goods that could be imported under the "import certificate" procedure and provided that this procedure henceforth could be used also by traders, craftsmen, and farmers. February 4. Global quotas for imports from all sources were announced for 1972. February 22. Two import quota lists for 1972 were published, one for imports originating in any EEC country (including France), and the other for imports originating in France. April 27. Law No. 72-38 introduced special incen- tives to export oriented manufacturing industries, addi- tional to those provided by the Investment Code. Enter- prises producing exclusively for export became eligible for certain tax and customs duty exemptions and tax reductions. Nonresident manufacturing enterprises (i.e., those whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent through the import of convertible currencies) were exempted from the requirement of repatriation and surrender of the proceeds from exports, income, and services rendered; however, all payments made by them in Tunisia, had to be effected through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. Eligible resident enter- prises remained subject to the repatriation and sur- render requirements but could freely make payments and transfers abroad that were related to their produc- tion and to the distribution of dividends to nonresident shareholders. Eligible enterprises could freely import any goods necessary for their production but remained subject to the foreign trade formalities insofar as their sales in Tunisia were concerned. Exports to payments agreement countries were not eligible for the above privileges. Certain tax facilities were also introduced for enterprises exporting part of their production. May 9. Notice No. 117 modified the regulations governing nonresident accounts. Those relating to the French Franc Area (EZF Accounts and IZF Accounts) were abolished. Henceforth the regulations distinguished between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, For- eign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars, and Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA May 26. Decree No. 72-195 provided for the impor- tation, free of customs duties and quantitative restric- tions, of a large number of goods from Algeria, under the terms of the supplementary protocol to the 1963 trade agreement signed between Algeria and Tunisia on February 26, 1972. June 26. A special payments arrangement between the Bank of Morocco and the Central Bank of Tunisia was signed. It came into operation on July 1. June 30. An agreement was signed with France con- cerning the protection of French investments in Tunisia, It came into operation immediately. 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.0592447 gram of fine gold per Tu rk i sh L ira, correspond ing to LT 15 - SDR 1. The cen t ral ra te is LT 14 = US$1, equ iva lent to LT 16.8889 = SDR 1, and Tu rk ey ava i ls itself of wider marg ins. The official rates for the U. S. dollar, the in terven t ion cur- rency, are LT 14.000 buy ing, and LT 14.301 selling, per US$1. The Central Bank also establishes f rom time to t ime o f f ic ial b u y i ng and selling rates for cer ta in other currencies. A separate exchange rate of LT 13 per US$1 is applied to the purchase of exchange arising f rom the export of certain agr icu l tural products, viz., cotton, tobacco,1 hazelnuts, raisins, dried figs, oilseed cakes, olive oil, and molasses. Pending the enactment of new legislation to eliminate interest paymen ts on remittances by Turkish workers resident abroad and the tax on exchange provided for travel abroad, Turkey m a in t a ins separate nom inal rates for these two categories of transac t ions, though in each case the resulting effective exchange rate conforms to the central rate of LT 14 per US$1. Workers' remit- tances are converted at a buy ing rate of LT 10.50 per US$1; when the Turkish l i ra equivalent is credited to an account w i th a bank in Turkey, the account is immedi- ately credited w i th an additional 33% per cent of the amount converted. The official selling rate for exchange provided for expenses connected w i th foreign travel is LT 9.534 per US$1; a tax of 50 per cent (m in imum of LT 500) is levied on foreign exchange purchased for most travel purposes, inc lud ing the cost of transpor ta- tion. Banks charge the ir customers LT 10.10 per US$1 for exchange in the form of travelers checks or LT 10.25 per US$1 for cash. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the Min- istry of Commerce which is also in charge of the prep- aration of import programs. The Ministry, or the Central Bank on the advice of the Ministry, allocates foreign exchange; certain fore ign exchange allocations for imports require prior approval of the competent ministry, even if the commodity is included in the liberalized lists. The Central Bank issues import licenses on ins truc t ions of the M in is try of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by professional organizations (the Exporters Union, the Chambers of Commerce, of Indus try, and of Commerce and Indus try) according to the instructions of the Ministry of Commerce; export licenses are issued by the M in is try, which may delegate * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Turkey maintained its central rate at LT 14 = US$1 and continued to avail itself of wider margins. The special exchange rate of LT 13 = US$1 also was continued. 1 With effect f rom January 23, 1973 the exchange rate for proceeds from tobacco exports was changed from LT 13 to LT 14 per US$1. the issuance of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements 2 are made in accordance w i th the terms of the re levant agreement. Certain com- mercial settlements w i th the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and Paki- s tan) are made th rough special accounts denominated in U. S. dollars. Settlements w i th other countries are made in convertible currencies. Residents and nonresi- dents are perm i t ted to open accounts in Turkey that are denom ina ted in convertible Turkish liras. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts f rom Rhodesia are prohibited; imports of old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are forbidden, except with the authorization of the Ministry of Commerce. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for five months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within five months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import m e r ch an t s ), industrialists (manu fac tu re rs importing for the ir own needs ), state economic enterprises, and gov- e rnment departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" issued by the M in is try of Commerce before sub- m i t t ing applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken into consideration when g ran t ing such certificates. However, exporters, mine operators, shipowners, building contractors who have undertaken the construction of state establish- ments, tourist establishments, and registered manufac- turers are not required to secure an "importer's cer- tificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualification is issued by the respective public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the Exporters Union, or the Ministry of Tourism and Information. Most goods are imported in accordance with the pro- visions of import programs, which are planned for one year. The import programs, which include commodities financed w i th funds from the U. S. Agency for Inter- national Development (A ID ), classify imports in two categories: (1) an annual list of liberalized goods, con- sisting of two parts (lists I and I I ), for which import licenses are issued freely; and (2) a list of goods sub- ject to global quotas published annually. Imports of 2 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Egypt, Hun- gary, Poland, Romania, and U. S. S. R. Payments with Portugal are channeled through a special account, but Portugal is not considered a bilateral country. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY goods that do not appear on any of these lists are pro- hibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by the Ministry of Commerce. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports f rom coun tr ies other than those with which Turkey has bilateral paymen ts ag reemen ts ;3 goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. For some goods on the lib- eralized and global quota lists, importers have the option of applying for exchange allocations f rom U. S. AID funds for orders exceeding US$10,000 in value; there are no goods on these lists, however, that may be imported only with U. S. AID funds and only from the United States. Certain imports f rom member coun- tries of the EEC are included in a list of liberalized items consolidated to the EEC and are free of quantita- tive restriction; most of the items on this 'list are included in liberalized lists I and II, while the remain- der is included in the quota list. Applications for import licenses for goods on the liberalized lists may be submitted at any time to author- ized banks, which transfer them to the Ministry of Commerce for examination and prepare the import licenses and fo rwa rd these to the Central Bank for approval on the Ministry's instructions. For certain liberalized goods, the prior approval of the ministry concerned is also required. There are special arrange- ments administered by the Ministry of Commerce to fac i l i ta te pr ior i ty allocation of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and supplementary materials required for export production. The list of import quotas contains quotas for regis- tered importers and for industrialists. Quotas for indus- trialists are allocated annu a l ly and for importers semi- annua l ly. Imports on the quota list can be subdivided in to two broad categories —imports which do not, and imports which do, require a permit f rom a specified public body. Foreign exchange allocations for quota imports w i th in the quan t i ta t ive limit established for each quota item are made by the Central Bank for imports not requ i r ing a permit, and by the Ministry of Commerce (on the advice of the responsible author- i t y) for those requiring a permit. Some of the quota imports also require a certificate confirming that the articles are not manu fac tu red by local indus t ry and do not exist in the local market in sufficient quan t i ty and qua l i ty; the required certificate is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, which may delegate au tho r i ty to the Chambers of Commerce and Indus t ry. Allocations against quotas in the first cate- gory are distributed by semester; applications must be 3 When perm i t t ing imports of goods on the liberalized or quota lists from nonagreemen t, non-OECD countries, the Ministry of Commerce takes the ba lance of t rade and paymen ts w i th these coun tr ies in to ac- count. In addition to the bilateral payments agreements listed in foot- note 2, Tu rkey has bilateral trade agreements with Algeria, Ethiopia, Finland, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Libyan A rab Republic, Morocco, Pakistan, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia. 480 submitted through an authorized bank and the Central Bank to the Ministry of Commerce during the first month of each period. No single importer may apply for more than 20 per c e n t4 of half of the quota set for any par t icu lar commodity; exceptions are possible when this amount does not cover the price of one unit. Upon examination of applications, the Ministry of Commerce instructs the Central Bank to issue a foreign exchange allocation letter valid for four months, and an import license must be secured f rom the Central Bank within the period of va l id i ty of the foreign exchange allocation letter. Applications for quota imports requiring a permit f rom a specified public au tho r i ty must be submitted to the responsible body each semester by importers and each year by industrialists. Upon examination of the application, the Ministry of Commerce instructs the responsible body to issue a foreign exchange allocation ("certificate of need") valid for four months but not longer than one mon th beyond the period of effective- ness of the quota list. An import license must then be secured f rom the Central Bank dur ing the period of va l id i ty of the certificate of need. Impor ts are to be made at the best ruling world market prices. For this purpose a certificate must be obtained from the Office of Price Registration and Con- trol af ter issuance of the import license or the certificate of need. However, pub l ic sector imports of goods on liberalization list I may be authorized by the Central Bank w i thout a price con fo rm i ty certificate. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs c learance). However, for imports on liberalized list I and for those financed f rom U. S. AID fund s, payments may be made only against a letter of credit. When the payment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and industrialists are required to prepay in local cur- rency, at the time of application for an import license, the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. For payments against documents or against goods for global quota list imports, importers and industrialists are required to prepay half of the value of the imports w i th the application for an import license. Importers are required to make the foreign exchange transfer w i th in four months from the date of the import license for payments against documents and w i th in two mon ths f rom the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Imports f rom bilateral agreement countries are sub- ject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberalization or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilat- 4 Increased to 50 per cent on January 4, 1973. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution eral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the M in i s t ry of Commerce on a monthly basis. Guarantee deposits for imports, whether financed from U. S. AID funds or not, are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized list I, 50 per cent of the va lue of the merchandise is payable,5 and for items on list II, 40 per cent; for imports under global quotas, 25 per cent of the value of the import application is payab le for goods on importers' quotas, and 10 per cent for industrialists' quotas and export m an u f a c tu r e r s /' For impo r ts und er b i la te ral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported f rom a nonagree- ment country. Guaran tee deposits are payable irrespec- tive of the method of payment. The public sector (except for AID imports of some enterprises and insti- tutions in that sector) is exempt, however, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for the ir use and applicable to convertible cur- rency countries o n l y ), or 10 per cent (on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agreemen ts). For imports to be financed f rom U. S. AID fund s, a guarantee pay- ment of 10 per cent, but not to exceed LT 100,000, is payable for imports of the public sector other than cen- tral gove rnment agencies, irrespective of whe ther the goods are included in the liberalization list or the quota list. The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been cleared through customs and the foreign supplier paid; it is th en re funded to the importer. The guaran tee deposits collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Cen tral Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in conformity with the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit corre- sponding to up to 10 per cent of the va lue of such imports is fo r fe i ted to the Treasury .7 Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any fo rm, except that the Ministry of Commerce is 5 For fertilizers, ammon ia, and breeding animals, the ratio is 1 per cent. 6 A deposit of 50 per cent applies to items on list I and to items not on any list and not requiring a permit of the Ministry of Com- merce when imported under the Transitional Agreement w i th the EEC; items inc luded in list II and those requ ir ing permission f rom the Min- istry of Commerce when impor ted under that Agreement requ ire a deposit of 20 per cent. 7 The 1973 impo rt program published on J anu a ry 4, 1973 repre- sented some fu r th er liberalization of the import system. Total imports in 1973 were programmed to be US$1,600 million, which included US$720 m i l l ion for liberalized goods, US$450 m i l l ion for quota goods, and US$115 million for imports f rom b i la teral agreement countries. The three ma in import lists were cons iderab ly revised, pa r t icu la r ly by the t rans fer of investment goods from the quota list to liberalization list II. Some of the revisions were designed to make the import regime conform to the liberalization list consolidated to the EEC. Import guaran tee deposit rates were reduced f rom 40 per cent to 20 per cent for liberalization list I I, f rom 25 per cent to 20 per cent for importers' quotas u n d er the quo ta list, and f rom 10 per cent to 5 per cent for indus t r ia l is ts' quotas under the quo ta list. Commodities on liberaliza- tion list II were perm i t ted, subject to an add i t ional deposit of 50 per cent, to be impor ted on payment against goods or payment against documents terms; fo rme r ly they could only be imported under letters of credit. The ratio of import quotas exempt from processing of applications by an official body was increased from 20 per cent to 50 per cent of total quota allocations. TURKEY authorized to conclude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through supporting purchases made by the State. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Cen- tral Bank, or the Ministry of Finance, under certain conditions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may bring in for personal or professional (but noncommercial) use goods and machinery with a limit of LT 2,500,8 in addi- tion to personal effects. Separate limits and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of pro- fessional instruments and machines, by persons having resided abroad for employment or study; these limits and conditions va ry with the stay abroad and with the transfer to Turkey of foreign exchange. Companies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily working abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and machinery for their personal or family use. Foreign contractors may temporarily import machin- ery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without request- ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey and may not be imported on a temporary basis under the relevant customs regulations. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their operations. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authori- ties. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Import of an automobile 9 without payment of for- eign exchange may be permitted by the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance, provided that certain conditions are met relating to residence abroad and to remittance and sale to authorized banks in Turkey of foreign exchange. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish residents provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's coun try are granted reciprocal privileges, and that pro- ceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. For- eign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported duty free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resi- dent in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but they must be exported after three years; however, this three-year period may be extended, and the Ministry of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit orga- 8 Increased to LT 3,000 on February 1, 1973. 9 Automobiles are not included in the import program. 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY nizations. With these exceptions, automobiles and any other commodities that have been imported d u ty free may not be sold to residents. In addition to customs du ty, imported goods are sub- ject to the fo l low ing charges: ( 1) a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs d u t y; (2) a s tamp du ty of 10 per cent of the declared value;10 ( 3) a quay du ty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs du ty, customs surcharge, s tamp du ty, and cus- toms clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax rang ing genera l ly f rom 10 per cent to 75 per cent on the sum of c . i . f. va lue, customs du ty, customs surcharge, stamp du ty, customs c lea r ing expenses, and quay du ty. The quay d u ty is not payab le on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the fo l low ing purposes, provided that applications are accompanied by specified docu- ments: payments related to trade ( inc lud ing sh ipp ing cos ts), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, pur- chases of books, payments for registration fees, adver- tising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, paymen ts by the Post Office Adm in is t ra- tion and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial trans- actions. The transfer of income related to foreign investments approved under the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Investment is permitted free ly. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricul- tural na tu re) may be granted transferab i l i ty between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without hav ing obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but th is does not apply to fore ign nationals resid- ing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted to one trip a person a year, except for travel to Cyprus. The allow- ance of exchange for tourist travel is up to the equiva- lent of US$400 a calendar year; travelers are not allowed to leave the country unless they are carrying at least the equivalent of US$200 in foreign exchange (US$110 for persons under 18 years of age, the pur- chase of this amount not being manda to ry ). Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to up to US$400 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted w i th in the limits of annual quotas, which vary accord- 10 The stamp du ty is 9 per cent or 9.5 per cent on goods imported under the Provisional Agreement between Turkey and the EEC, de- pend ing on the type of commodity. (With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1973, the rates of 9 per cent and 9.5 per cent were applied to such goods also when imported f rom other GATT members.) The stamp du ty is 100 per cent for imports made by special permission but not conforming to the provisions of the Customs Law, the Foreign Trade Regime, and similar legislation and regulations. 482 ing to the taxable income of the applicant firm. For exporting companies, the limit is related to their export proceeds. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fa i rs, a th le t ic meets, and so for th, and personal busi- ness) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can ce r t i fy that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for med ical t rea tment may purchase the neces- sary fo re ign exchange. A tax of 50 per cent (m in imum of LT 500) is pay- able on all exchange purchased for travel abroad,11 on the purchase against payment in Turkish liras of tickets for foreign travel, and on baggage charges. The LT 500 m i n im um is not applicable to Turkish citizens leav ing to work abroad. In comb ina t ion w i th the official rate for travel expenditures of LT 9.534 per US$1, the effective exchange rate, allowing for the tax, is the selling rate of LT 14.301 per US$1. Travelers are pe rm i t ted to take out LT 100 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out with- out any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange wh ich they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras in to foreign cur- rency when leaving the coun try are required to present a document show ing that fore ign exchange had pre- viously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports destined to bilateral countries,12 exports of a few com- modities to any destination,13 re-exports irrespective of destination, and temporary exports require an export license in order to prevent re-exports and to assure adequate supplies for the domestic marke t. Commercial export prices must conform to the checklist of prices fixed at in terva ls by the Ministry of Commerce on the basis of prices ob ta in ing in domestic and foreign markets. For this purpose, exporters must apply for price registration to a professional organization desig- nated by the Ministry of Commerce w i th in five working days ( three work ing days in the case of hazelnuts) of a sale,14 together w i th a statement of income earned and income and corporation taxes paid du r ing the last three years. The professional organization will not accept for registration applications not conform ing to the checklist of prices. When registering sales, due con- sideration is given to delivery time, quantity, sales con- ditions, the income earned by the exporter on his 11 Exempted f rom the tax on foreign travel expenditure are expenses of persons traveling abroad for medical t rea tmen t, monthly allocations of students and officials, and payments to personnel of ships and air- craft. The special exchange rate for expenses in connection with for- eign travel, however, does not apply to these expenditures. 12 Exports of specified perishables to these countries are authorized by the customs offices; export licenses must be delivered to customs within five days of export. 13 Cereals, certain minerals, such as molybdenum, wolfram, and iron ore, articles made of precious metals or stones, vegetable oils, oilseeds, skins, and fertilizers. 14 The customs authorities authorize exports of certain perishables; price registration certificates must be submitted to the customs authori- ties within five days of shipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution commerc ial activities in the course of the last three years, and income and corporation taxes assessed du r- ing the same period. For expor ts requ i r ing a license, the price reg is tra t ion application is subm i t ted by the responsible au tho r i ty to the M i n i s t ry of Commerce; approved price registration bills cons t i tu te export licenses. In issuing licenses for exports to bilateral agree- ment coun tr ies, export quo tas are fixed by the Ministry. Exports must be started w i th in 30 to 180 days of reg is tra t ion, depending on the type of goods, sales con- tracts, and coun t ry of designation. Circulation certifi- cates for exports to member coun tr ies of the European Economic Commun i ty benef i t ing from preferential customs and tax t r e a tm e nt are issued by the Customs Au thor i ty. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported within three mon ths f rom the date of export or w i th in ten days f rom the date on wh ich the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. They are perm i t ted to export a spe- cified list of commod i t ies on n ine -mon th credit terms, however, against payment in conver t ib le currency and subject to a bank guarantee. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indi- rect taxes paid are re funded when manu fac tu res or produc ts are exported. There are basically four rates of r e fund: 5, 15, 25, and 30 per cent of specified direct and indirect taxes.15 However, 10 percentage points more in tax re funds is granted to exporters who sell more than US$1.2 million of goods benef i t ing from a re fund. Reduced rates of re fund apply for certain goods when exported to bilateral payments agreement countries, and other goods exported to these countries do not qualify for a tax re fund. In addition, va ry ing provisional rates of r e fund not exceeding 10 per cent were introduced pending final classification of some commodities. The tax re fund must not exceed the amount of indirect taxes and charges actually paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Firms or individuals not in the category of authorized institutions cannot accept more than the equivalent of US$100 from foreign tourists and are required to sur- render any exchange earnings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank w i th in ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresi- dents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days f rom the date of acquisition of the exchange. Remittances from Turkish workers abroad are sold to the Central Bank at LT 10.50 per U. S. dollar; when the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to a bank account in Turkey, an additional amount of 33% per cent is immediately credited to the 15 On February 16, 1973 these rates of refund were changed to 5, 10, 20, and 25 per cent. TURKEY account representing three years' interest at 11.11 per cent per annum resulting in an effective exchange rate of LT 14.00 per U. S. dollar. The amounts deposited plus the interest can be w i thdrawn at any time. For- eign travelers w i sh ing to take out articles with a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted fore ign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by trav- elers (whe ther of Turkish or foreign na t iona l i ty) is limited to LT 100. The import of fore ign currency by travelers is unres tr ic ted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital trans- actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Residents are not normally permitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance w i th the provisions of the Law for the En- couragement of Foreign Investments (No. 6224) or the Petroleum Law (No. 6326 ), foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist indus try. Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is subject to quotas set by the Ministry of F inance in accordance with their equity capital in Turkey. Blocked f u n ds are those accrued or accruing to non- residents but not transferable under the existing ex- change control regulations. These include the sales proceeds of real estate situated in Turkey and owned by nonresident physical or juridical persons, insofar as the property is not covered by Law No. 6224 or Law No. 6326. Except for approved investments, non- residents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 5,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized w i th in Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and ma in tenance and repair of property; and for living expenses of up to LT 4,500 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 2,500 for certain relatives. They may not, however, be utilized as business capital except for investment in the tourist industry. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following conditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked f u n ds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law for the En- cou ragement of Foreign Investments. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance w i th the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time pr ior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be t rans fe r red. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agree- ment, except for investment in the export industries or in other industries earn ing foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, or will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish pr iva te enterprise and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, all or part of the invested capital or fore ign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the M in is t ry of Finance guaran tees the t rans fer of divi- dends and of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of shares or stock cer t if ica tes registered on the books of companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferab le between fore ign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The trans- fer guaran tees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is no t if ied to the M in is t ry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, how- ever, they must be presented to the M in is t ry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by non- residents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an ag r icu l tu ral cha rac te r) may be accorded the same trans- fer benef i ts. Foreign capital imported under the Petro- leum Law is accorded add i t ional p re fe ren t ial t rea tmen t. By v ir tue of a policy statement of December 1971, Turkish par t ic ipa t ion in new foreign inves tmen ts no longer is subject to a m in imum of 51 per cent. In addi- tion to inves tmen ts under Law No. 6224, foreign invest- ments outside the petroleum sector may be made "under the monetary regulations," in which case the investor does not enjoy any t rans fer facilities for earnings or liquidation proceeds. Transac t ions in securities, inc lud ing their export and 484 import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. Banks have been granted certain general permissions allowing them to borrow convertible currencies from nonresidents for relending to nonresidents. Most bor- rowing from nonresidents by residents other than banks requires individual approval.16 Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be pre- sented for m in t ing by the State M in t. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally g ran ted except for imports and exports by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and indus- t r ial users. Changes during 1972 January 4. The 1972 import program was published, accompanied by substantial modifications of import regulations. Imports under the program were expected to amount to US$1,300 million during the year, of which US$570 million was under the liberalization lists (US$455 million in 1971) and US$400 million was under the quota list (US$270 million in 1971). Some 44 tariff positions were added to the liberalized import lists. Other modifications aimed at reducing administra- tive delays in the operation of the import system. Price control procedures were substantially eased, notably by an exemption f rom price control for certain industrial imports and permission for ex post control for certain other commodities. Quotas for industrialists would be allocated on a yearly basis rather than semiannually, in order to facilitate production planning. The utilization period of foreign exchange allocation letters was raised from two months to four months. There was no change in the guarantee deposit rates. January 12. For the importation by the public sector of goods under liberalization list I, the Central Bank was authorized to issue import permits without requir- ing a price conform i ty certificate. January 24. Several manu fac tu res, including speci- fied textiles, metal goods, and chemicals, were added to the list of items that could be exported on nine-month credit terms (aga inst payment in a convertible currency and subject to a bank gua ran tee ). Under this facility, the foreign exchange proceeds could be repatriated up to nine months a f ter shipment. February 12. A credit facility was created for the growers of six traditional export commodities, viz., cot- 16 On Janua ry 3, 1973 such approval norma l ly became subject to the condition that the borrower must pay into a special fund any interest ra te d i f fe ren t ial compared with similar borrowing in Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ton, grapes, figs, olive oil, hazelnuts, and pistachio nuts. February 14. Several items were added to the list of commodities eligible for a 5 per cent tax rebate when exported. February 14. The export regime for 1972 was announced. It incorporated certain changes designed to secure more speedy and efficient procedures. A special expeditious approval procedure, formerly applied only to perishable goods, was extended to some 70 per cent of total exports. Indicative export prices would continue to be set by the Ministry of Commerce but the authority to approve export applications at prices in excess of these prices was delegated to professional organizations. Price control procedures for fu tu re sales were also simplified; whereas price conformity was previously sought at the time of exportation, it was now to be sought only at the time the export contract was entered into. A more permissive approach was to be adopted in extending the time period of export permits. Finally, export licenses would in fu tu re be required only for exports to bilateral countries (ra ther than to all non- OECD countries) and for all exports of a few com- modities specified in the export list. February 16. The 1972 import quota for private sec- tor investments was increased by US$150 million. March 3. The formalities for imports under the pri- vate sector investment quota were eased. March 12. The facility for exports on a credit basis, under which exchange proceeds could be repatriated up to nine months af ter shipment, was again expanded in coverage. All industrial products (except foodstuffs, liquor, and sultanas) eligible for tax rebates could henceforth be exported on a credit basis against a bank guarantee. March 12. The Ministry of Commerce announced that all industrial products eligible for tax rebates could henceforth be exported on a nine-month credit basis, subject to a bank guaran tee and provided that export proceeds were received in convertible currencies. March 14. The import entitlement of returning expa- triate workers and professionals af ter a two-year stay abroad was raised from LT 12,000 to LT 20,000 for TURKEY professional equipment and machinery. Furthermore, the additional entitlement for each month in excess of a two-year stay abroad was raised from LT 500 to LT 1,000. June 6. The Ministy of Industry and Technology pub- lished a decree listing production sectors and investment fields to be given the benefit of 100 per cent customs tax exemption. This decree, superseding all previous regulations, became effective immediately. July 3. In view of the floating of the pound sterling, new official buy ing and selling rates for sterling were established. These rates were not modified until Novem- ber 1. July 13. Commissions for certain services relating to imports (services provided by commercial agents, bro- kers, distributors, e tc .), when earned by Turkish nation- als, had to be repatriated to Turkey in foreign exchange, with certain exceptions. July 19. The Regulatory and Reserve Import Quota, earmarked for inves tment imports, was increased by US$60 million. July 27. Marginal reserves had to be deposited with the Central Bank against accounts in convertible Turk ish liras opened by residents or nonresidents. Fur- thermore, certain changes were made in the terms and interest rates for such accounts held by nonresidents. (With effect f rom J anu a ry 3, 1973, foreign physical and ju r id ical persons not resident or established in Turkey could no longer open or credit demand accounts in con- vertible Turk ish liras, a l though existing balances could be ma in ta ined; w i th effect from April 3, 1973, such for- eign persons had to liquidate their time deposits ma in- tained in convertible Turkish liras.) August 2. The amount of goods for personal and professional use that travelers domiciled in Turkey could import freely was increased from LT 1,750 to LT 2,500. September 5. The first bilateral trade agreement with Morocco came into force. Settlements continued to take place in convertible currencies. September 24. A 5 per cent tax rebate was granted on cotton exports. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.114592 gram of fine gold per Uganda Shilling, corresponding to U Sh 7.75509 = SDR 1 or U Sh 7.14286 = US$1, and Uganda avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Uganda does not deal in foreign cu r renc ie sT other than sterling, U. S. dollars, and deutsche ma rk; its rate for the U. S. dollar is fixed and its rates for sterling and deutsche mark are based on the previous day's London rates against the U. S. dollar. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies 2 and base their rates on the previous day's closing rates against the U. S. dollar in London, except for Kenya and Tan- zania shillings, which are dealt in at par. East African shillings (which have ceased to be legal tender) may be exchanged at par at the Bank of Uganda and the authorized banks. The latter may freely deal forward with customers in sterling, U. S. dollars, and other cur- rencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract and that the term of the forward contract does not exceed three months; con- tracts for longer periods require exchange control approval. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry under the External Trade Act and by the Bank of Uganda. The Minister of Commerce and Industry has powers to prohibit imports and exports. The State Trading Corporation has the sole right to the import and export of specified commodities. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East African currency area but exchange control is applied to both Kenya and Tanzania. Prescription of Currency Uganda has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory under the terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regu- lations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. All payments to Kenya and Tanzania must be effected in East African currency,3 either through an East African Account in Uganda or * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Uganda with effect from February 18 changed its par value to 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Uganda shilling. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at U Sh 7.14286 = US$1. 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Uganda shilling. :{ East African currency comprises Uganda shillings, Kenya"shillings, and Tanzania shillings, 486 in Kenya or Tanzania shillings. Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya, Tanzania, and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts f rom such countries may be obtained in Uganda shil- lings f rom a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Authorized payments, includ- ing payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel or Rhodesia may be made to an External Account in any Sterling Area country, in Uganda shil- lings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Israel or Rhodesia may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Account, in any Sterling Area specified currency from an External Account, or in any other specified currency that is not a Sterling Area currency. Payments to Rhodesia, South Africa, and Namibia (South West A f r ica) are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be credited freely w i th all authorized pay- ments to such Sterling Area countries by Uganda resi- dents, w i th transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, w i th t rans fe rs f rom External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to Ugandan residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterltng Area Accounts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for w i thdrawa ls by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda; provided that permis- sion of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Uganda or elsewhere in the Ster- l ing Area, and for purchases in Uganda of any non- Sterling Area currency or gold. Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel or Rho- desia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such coun- tries by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) and gold by nonres iden ts of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Ster- ling Area coun try has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited w i th t r an s f e rs f rom Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited f ree ly for p aym en ts to residents of the Sterling Area, for t ran s fe rs to other Ex te rnal Accoun ts in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area coun t ry, and for purchases of non -S t e r l ing Area cu r renc ies f rom au thor ized dealers. Non t ran s fe rab le funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to p r ior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferab le begin- n ing five years f rom the date of purchase. Subject to ind iv idual permission, such balances may also be used for paymen ts to residents not related to export transac- tions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzania, requ i re p r ior approval. Imports and Import Payments All permitted imports require approval by the Bank of Uganda. Monthly allocations of foreign exchange for imports are limited to a total of U Sh 100 million. Some imports from all sources are prohibited for rea- sons of public policy; imports prohibited for other reasons include cotton fabrics, electrical home refrig- erators, transistor radios, and matches. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited and imports from Portuguese-controlled territories in Africa are not being licensed. All goods originating in mainland China must be imported through the inter- mediary of the State Trading Corporation. Imports normally must be purchased direct from the country of origin. Some imports of manufactured goods from Kenya and Tanzania are subject to transfer taxes. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within six months. Pay- ments for nonessential imports are made after arrival of the goods, but advance payment is permitted for essential goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda and those to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. The basic allowance for travel outside Uganda is the equivalent of U Sh 2,000 a person every three years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. The allowance is available for travel to any country except Kenya and Tanzania, for which normally holiday facilities of up to U Sh 500 a person a year are available, and Rho- UGANDA desia and South Africa, for which no allocation is granted. Salaried noncitizens recruited from outside East Africa may obtain allocations for travel outside East Africa at the time of their overseas leave. No foreign exchange is released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad except for children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonnationals working in Uganda on overseas terms, nonnational missionaries, and other special cases. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may during their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 33Y3 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment with includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. The export of Uganda banknotes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers to Kenya and Tanzania may take out U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foods tu f fs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Other goods may be exported w i thout licenses. All exports to Israel, South Africa, the Portuguese terri- tories in Africa, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot- note 2) must be collected within six months of expor- tation and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for conversion into Uganda shillings. Coffee is subject to export duty, and an export tax of 40 per cent ad valorem is levied on copper and copper alloys sold at a price in excess of <£ stg. 400 a ton. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda bankno tes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers f rom Kenya and Tan- zania may bring in U Sh 100 each. Travelers may freely b r ing in foreign currency notes and foreign cur- rency travelers checks. Capital Capital t rans fe rs to all countries are restricted and those to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemp- tions f rom the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally transfer their assets up to the equivalent 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA of U Sh 50,000; for certain persons who have been ordered to leave this allocation is U Sh 1,000. The allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance premiums remitted after 1965 outside the facilities for remittance of savings. A further transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anniversary of the emigrant's departure is allowed. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or held on deposit with a bank in Uganda; such funds become transferable after five years. The income from such investments is transferable also during the period when the funds are blocked. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; but to secure guaranteed repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Pro- tection) Act, 1964, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in speci- fied types of production require approval under the East A f r ican Indus tr ial Licensing Act and the Uganda Licensing Act, 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents from normal trading operations and dis- tributed by companies operating in Uganda are in principle transferable. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by non- residents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manne r. The income f rom such securities is rem i t tab le, and the proceeds on resale are no rma l ly remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not normally per- m i t ted. A res ident of Uganda may not send, as a g if t, to any coun try more th an U Sh 100 a year w i thout specific exchange control approval. With m inor exceptions, loans or ov e rd r a ft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resi- dent in Uganda wh ich is by any means controlled, whe ther directly or ind i rec t ly, by persons resident out- side Uganda require pr ior exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the mone ta ry authorities and authorized indus t r ial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any fo rm other than jewe lry. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other th an jewe l ry con s t i tu t ing the personal effects of a trave ler requ i re licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not norma l ly g ran ted except for expor ts by or on b eh a lf of the mone tary au thor i t ies and indus tr ial users. The import of the fol- low ing f rom a ll sources o ther t h an Kenya and Tan- zan ia, and f rom Kenya and Tanzan ia when o r ig ina t ing in other countries, is subject to ind iv idual licensing: jewe l ry of gold, silver, or p l a t inum; goldsmiths' or sil- 488 versmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion ( ingo ts, bars, or shee ts), gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively. Changes during 1972 January 21. The Bank of Uganda (Parity of the Shilling) (Amendment) Instrument, 1972 was pub- lished. It was deemed to have come into force on December 21, 1971. January 28. The exchange facilities under Exchange Control Circular No. 16 for delivery overseas of motor vehicles became subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Uganda. February 19. All spares and raw materials for indus- try were exempted from the advance import deposit requirements. March 30. All applications for foreign exchange from any Israeli national, institution, or body (includ- ing holders of nonresident accounts) had to be sub- mitted to the Bank of Uganda for consideration, and all facilities allowing such persons or bodies to main- tain External Accounts or Sterling Area Accounts were withdrawn. Banks were authorized, however, to pro- vide the basic travel allowance to Israeli nationals leaving Uganda. April 28. All locally engaged staff of foreign nation- ality, regardless of the terms of service, required the prior approval of the Bank of Uganda to remit leave salaries to countries other than Kenya and Tanzania. May 3. The Export and Import (Prohibition) Order, 1972 was published. It was retroactive to April 25, 1972. The export to and the import from Israel of any goods was prohibited. May 29. Controls over remittances of commissions and expenses due to nonresident agents were tightened. June 16. The advance import deposit requirements introduced in November 1971 (10, 50, or 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value) were abolished. The monthly ceiling of U Sh 100 million on exchange allocations for imports was maintained. June 23. Uganda ceased to be a Scheduled Territory under the terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. August 9. The ceiling for the transfer of funds by certain emigrants was fixed at U Sh 1,000 a person and they were not eligible for any basic travel allowance. August 10. The basic exchange allocations for busi- ness and holiday travel to Kenya and Tanzania and for personal remittances by Kenyan or Tanzanian citizens employed in Uganda were suspended. Applications for exchange for these purposes had to be submitted to the Bank of Uganda. August 12. Banks were informed that with imme- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution diate effect no foreign exchange should be released by any authorized dealer on any existing exchange control authority, whether in respect of import pay- ments or any other type of remittance. All existing remittance approvals had to be submitted to the Bank of Uganda for revalidation. August 15. The Bank of Uganda was given sole authority to issue import licenses. September 12. Decree No. 24 was published, which established the State Trading Corporation. It took over the assets and liabilities of the Export and Import Cor- poration and of the National Trading Corporation. The State Trading Corporation would have the sole right to import, export, and trade in such goods as might be specified by the Minister of Commerce and Industry. October 6. The Declaration of Assets (Non-Citizen Asians) Decree, 1972 was published. It was retroactive to August 9, 1972. UGANDA October 27. The State Trading Corporation (Speci- fied Goods) Order, 1972 was published. With effect from October 20, rice, salt, sugar, hoes, and matches were declared specified goods under Decree No. 24, which gave the State Trading Corporation the sole right to import, export, and trade in such goods. October 30. It was announced that certain foreign- owned tea estates had to be sold to Ugandan nationals. December 18. It was announced that a number of foreign-owned enterprises were being nationalized. (Nationalization took place by virtue of the Properties and Business (Acquisition) Decree, 1972.) By Janu- ary 1, 1973 all Blocked Accounts had to be transferred to the state-owned Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB ), and all government departments, urban authorities, State Boards, and similar bodies were required to bank with the UCB and to place their insurance business with the National Insurance Corporation. December 25. Emigration allowances for certain foreign nationals were reduced to U Sh 1,000 a person. 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 Exchange Rate System The United Arab Emirates has not yet issued its own currency. The currencies in use are the Bahrain Dinar and the Qa ta r /Dubai Riyal. These are defined as equivalent to 1.86621 and 0.186621 gram of fine gold, respectively, corresponding to BD 1 = US$2.28 and QDR 1 = US$0.228. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emi- rates. The United Arab Emirates is part of the Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. The United Kingdom issues annual guidelines to com- mercial banks with respect to certain types of settle- ments with nonresidents of the Sterling Area; their implementation is not necessarily identical in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. Import and export licenses are issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force, but settlements with Sterling Area countries usua l ly take place in sterling, and settlements with other countries normally in External Account sterling or in convertible non-Sterling Area currencies. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manu fac tu red by foreign companies black- listed by the A rab League. Imports of a few commod- ities are prohibited f rom all sources for moral, health, or security reasons. Virtually all other commodities may be freely imported without an import license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles Under present guidelines, banks norma l ly ensure that expatriates' salary remittances to countries outside the 1 The Un i ted A rab Em i ra tes became a member of the In te rna t ional Mone ta ry Fund on September 22, 1972. The seven fede ra ted s ta tes of the Un i ted A r ab Em i ra tes a re Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sha r jah, A jm a n, Umm al Qa iwan, Ras a l -Kha imah, and Fu ja i rah. Sterling Area are l im i ted to 75 per cent of net earn- ings. All other paymen ts for current invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel. Travelers may take out any amount in Bahra in dinar notes, Qa ta r /Dubai riyal notes, or any other banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. Virtually all com- modities may be exported freely, w i thout an export license, to any other destination. There are no require- ments attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of f ree ly, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts from cu r rent invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in Bahrain dinar notes, Qa ta r /Dubai riyal notes, or any other banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresi- dents, and no guidelines to commercial banks are in force at present with respect to capital transfers to Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area countries. Trans- actions and settlements involving Israel, however, are prohibited. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Gold Residents and nonresidents, including private per- sons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a license and w i thout payment of any customs duties or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1972 June 23. The United A rab Emirates ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. Subsequently, the gold parity of the Bahrain dinar and that of the Qa ta r /Dubai riyal were maintained and both curren- cies were unpegged f rom sterling. Their effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at BD 1 = US$2.28 and QDR 1 = US$0.228, respec- tively. 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED K INGDOM1 Exchange Rate System * The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling, corresponding to <£0.416667 = SDR 1 or <£! = US$2.60571. Since June 23, 1972, however, the au tho r i t ies have not ma in ta ined the exchange rate of the pound w i th in announced margins, and therefore all transactions in the official exchange marke t, except those in currencies ma in ta in ing a fixed relationship with sterling, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The closing selling and buy ing rates in the fo re ign exchange market for the U. S. dollar on J a n u a ry 1, 1973 were US$2.3465 and US$2.3475 per £1, respectively. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and fo rwa rd exchange transactions in any currencies, except Rhodesian cu r rency, subject to the observance of limits on open positions and the accumu la t ion of spot foreign exchange. Forward rates may fluctuate under the inf lu- ence of ma rket forces; transactions w i th resident cus- tomers may be entered in to only for approved purposes, where there is an unde r ly ing commercial contract (or where an exporter is tender ing for an overseas export con t rac t ), and in the currency of the contract. There is also a market in which the foreign currency proceeds 2 (referred to as investment currency) result- ing ma in ly from the sale outside the Scheduled Terri- tories (the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, the Republic of I r e l and ,3 and Gibraltar) of foreign currency securities,4 of direct investments held in non-EEC non-Scheduled Territories outside the Overseas Sterling Area, and of most personal property situated outside the Scheduled Territories may be nego- tiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a prem ium over the official market rate; at the end of 1972, that premium was about 36 per cent calculated at £ 1 = US$2.60, or about 24 per cent calculated at the ru l ing U. S. dollar rate in the official exchange mar- ket, the middle closing rate on December 29 being £1 = US$1.9099. These f u n ds are available for rein- vestment in marketable foreign currency securities, for most approved personal property acquisitions in coun- * Following the announcement on Feb rua ry 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, sterling continued to float. When the "joint float" a r rangemen ts for cer ta in European currenc ies (based on the decision of March 12, 1973 of the Council of Finance Ministers of the EEC) came in to operation on March 19, 1973, the Un i ted K ing- dom did not pa r t ic ipa te. 1 In view of changes that took place on January 1, 1973 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), this survey presen ts the position on that date. - Under the U. K. exchange con t rol regulations, foreign currency comprises all currencies o ther than the currenc ies of the Un i ted King- dom, the Republic of Ireland, and G ib ra l ta r. 3 The U. K. regu la t ions re fer to Ire land as the Republic of Ireland, and for the purpose of this survey the U. K. usage is being followed. 4 The term "foreign cu r rency securities" in this survey is generally to be read as meaning securities payab le or optionally payable in a currency of a coun try other than the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ire land, and Gibraltar. Special regulations, however, are applicable to fo re ign currency securities payable in Rhodesian currency. Sterling securities are defined as securities payable solely in sterling, Irish pounds, or G ibra l tar currency. The term "securities" includes certifi- cates of deposit and treasury bills. tries outside the United K ingdom, the Repub l ic of Ire- land, and G ibra l tar, other than Rhodesia, and for most approved direct inves tmen ts in non-Scheduled Terri- tories outside the Overseas Sterling Area. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and w i th residents and nonres iden ts in fore ign notes and coins (o ther than Rhodesian cu r rency) at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom fo rm a l ly accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Although exchange control is not imposed on trans- actions with residents of the Scheduled Territories, con- trol is exercised over the acquisition by residents of the United K ingdom of foreign currency securities f rom residents of o ther Scheduled Territories. In the applica- tion of exchange control to the rest of the world, the non-Scheduled Territories for adm in is tra t ive purposes are divided as follows: ( 1) the other member countries of the EEC; (2) the Overseas Sterling Area, i.e., the countries other than the Republic of Ireland and Gibral- tar which as at June 22, 1972 were treated as Scheduled Te r r i to r ies ;5 ( 3) Rhodesia; and (4) all other countries. Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is admin- istered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U. K. Treasury. However, practically all commercial banks are authorized to approve most current paymen ts requ i r ing exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Department of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Receipts f rom Scheduled Territories may be in ster- ling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency; those f rom other countries with the exception of Rhodesia must be in sterling f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian cu r rency ), which must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless permis- sion has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Payments to Scheduled Territories may be made in sterling, Irish pounds, or G ibra l tar currency; 5 The Overseas S ter l ing Area thus comprises: (1) Aus t ra l ia, State of Bah ra in, Bang ladesh, Barbados, Botswana, the British Solomon Islands, B rune i, Cyp rus, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Guyana, Iceland, India, Jamaica, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Kenya, State of Kuwa i t, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Maur i t ius, New Zea land, N ige r ia, Pak is tan, State of Qatar, Western Samoa, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South A f r i c a, South West A f r ica (N am i b i a ), Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzan ia, Tonga, Tr in idad and Tobago, Uganda, United A rab Emi- rates, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia, together with all British Dominions, Protectorates, Protected States, and Trust Territories not previously mentioned except Canada, Gibraltar, and Rhodesia and (2) the Maldive Islands, Nau ru, and Oman, wh ich were administratively treated as Scheduled Territories. 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM payments to other countries, with the exception of Rho- desia, may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. For security reasons, settlements with Rho- desia are subject to special regulations generally pre- scribing the use of Rhodesian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. How- ever, unless specifically included among the permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due f rom persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the United King- dom must be received either in a foreign currency (o ther than Rhodesian currency) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling f rom the Rhodesian Special Accoun t; authorized payments for exports f rom the United Kingdom to Rhodesia must be received in advance of shipment in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or, with the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling f rom the Rhodesian Special Account. Persons normally resident in Rhodesia who are living temporarily in the United Kingdom as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the United Kingdom; debits to such accounts are gen- erally permitted only for living expenses within the United K ingdom. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other Scheduled Territories are treated in the same way as those of resi- dents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for transfers between Scheduled Territories no U. K. exchange con- trol permission is required; for paymen ts to other coun- tries by residents of any Scheduled Territory, the author- ized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control au tho r i ty in the territory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Rhodesian Accounts and the Rhodesian Special Account (see be low ), the sterling accounts of nonresidents with banks in the United K ingdom, i.e., those of residents of coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized paymen ts by residents of Scheduled Territories, with t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts, with the proceeds f rom sales of gold or foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency ( inc lud ing bankno te s ), and with s ter l ing bankno tes mailed f rom outside the Scheduled Territories. External Accounts may be deb- ited, subject to general or special permission, for pay- ments to residents of the Scheduled Territories, for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts, for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported f rom Rhodesia, for payments in cash in the United Kingdom, and for purchases of any for- eign currency other than Rhodesian currency ( inc lud ing bankno te s) or gold. 492 Rhodesian Accounts. These accoun ts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers from External Accounts, provided that the bank has no reason to believe that the payment is for a purpose prohibited by the Sou thern Rhodesia (Un i ted Na t ions Sanc t ions) (N o. 2) Order 1968; paymen ts by residents of Scheduled Territories other than the United K ingdom to residents of Rhodes ia, sub ject to the app roval of the exchange con trol au tho r i ty in the terr i- tory concerned; and paymen ts by U. K. res iden ts to residents of Rhodesia in respect of ( 1) the sale of for- eign currencies other t h an Rhodesian currency, (2) the the d iscount or m a t u r i ty proceeds of U. K. t reasu ry bills, (3) pe rm i t ted impo r ts f rom Rhodesia wh ich have entered customs in the United K ingdom, (4) insu rance and fre ight charges re su l t ing f rom perm i t ted trade between Rhodesia and any Scheduled Territory, (5) in su rance c la ims d i rec t ly re la ted to such permitted trade, (6) pensions and w idows' annu i t i es where assoc- iated w i th the deceased husband 's emp loymen t, and ( 7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks registered in Rhodesia, Zambia, or Malawi. Permitted debits include t rans fe rs to the Rhodesian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for living expenses in the United Kingdom of persons resident in Rhodesia and their fam- ilies; authorized purchases of U. K. sterling securities to be held for the account holder; purchases in the United Kingdom of t reasu ry bills to be held for the account holder; paymen ts to residents of the Scheduled Territories for ( 1) interest on and repayment of out- standing personal loans, advances, and overdraf ts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) pa ten ts, designs, trademarks, and royalties, ( 3) d is tr ibu t ions f rom Rho- desian estates and trusts, and (4) subscriptions to news- papers and other periodicals; and paymen ts to U. K. residents for (a) expenses arising out of property in the United K ingdom owned on or before November 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) educa t ional fees and incidental expenses, (d) insurance p rem iums and capital and a n n u i ty paymen ts on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, ( f) g if ts and ma in tenance not exceeding £250 for any one pay- men t, to ind iv idua ls and religious, medical, educational, and charitable organizations, and subscriptions to such organizations, (g) con t r ibu t ions to pension f u n ds pro- vided the person was a member of the f u nd before November 11, 1965 or before tak ing up residence af ter that date, and (h) bank and safe custody charges. Transfers between Rhodesian Accounts and f rom Rho- desian Accoun ts to Ex ternal Accoun ts are not norma l ly allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rho- desian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Account, payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be with- held unless the Bank of England directs otherwise; the f u n ds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except with specific perm iss ion, may on ly be ( 1) used to meet ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U. K. tax paymen ts and safe custody charges due on the monies in question, or (2) placed on deposit with banks or other financial institutions in the name of the U. K. resident by whom they are held. Permission is no rma l ly given for residents of Rhodesia to use Sus- pense Account monies to purchase U. K. sterling secur- ities on a recognized stock exchange in the United King- dom and to purchase U. K. treasury bills and savings bonds and certificates. Permission is only given for them to purchase Rhodesian securities, however, when the funds for the purchase are derived f rom the sale pro- ceeds of other Rhodesian securities. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia Pensions Office staff in Lon- don and maintained w i th the Standard Bank, London. Pensions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia f rom residents of the Scheduled Territories and the Overseas Sterling Area, and pensions due f rom Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and most parts of the Overseas Sterling Area are normally settled through this account. Corresponding transfers f rom Rhodesian Accounts in the names of ind iv idua ls to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely perm i t ted. Permission is not nor- mally given for paymen ts of any other na ture to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Account. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of England, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia f rom the Scheduled Ter- ritories and the Overseas Sterling Area and of services provided by residents of the Scheduled Territories and the Overseas Sterling Area for account of persons resi- dent in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes coun tr ies outside the United Kingdom other than Rhodesia G are divided into five groups: other Scheduled Territories and the Over- seas Sterling Area countries ( f or import licensing pur- poses known as the specified te r r i to r ies ), the Dollar Area,7 Japan ,8 the Eastern Area,9 and all other coun- tries. Imports f rom countries other than Rhodesia are admitted under an Open General License without restriction, with the fo l low ing exceptions: (a) f rom a ll other countries, 11 commodities or groups of commod- ities; 10 (b) f rom all other countries except the Sterling 6 All goods from Rhodes ia are subject to licensing control and licenses are not norma l ly g ran ted. 7 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dom in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Ha i t i, Hondu r a s, Liberia, Mexico, N i c a r a g u a, P a n am a, Philippines, Un i ted States, and Venezue la. 8 Japan w i ll u l t ima te ly cease to be trea ted as in a category by i t se l f. 9 The Eas tern Area comprises A lb an i a, Bu lga r ia, ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, H u n g a r y, No r th Korea, People's Repub l ic of Mongo l ia, Po land, Rom an i a, U. S. S. R., and N o r th Viet- N am. 10 Coffee and coffee prepara t ions f r om all sources requ i re a spe- cific license to ensure compliance w i th the In te rna t ional Co f fee Agreemen t. The sk ins of ce r ta in rare an im a ls also cannot be im- ported under the Open Gene ral License f r om any source. The re- strictions on cotton tex t i les do not app ly to coun t r ies in Wes tern Europe, Aus t ra l ia, Canada, New Zea land, and the United States. UNITED KINGDOM Area, 3 commodities or groups of commodities; (c) f r om the Dollar Area only, 4 commodities or groups of commodities; (d) f r om Japan on ly, certain textiles; and (e) from the Eastern Area only, 10 commodities or groups of commodities. Most articles subject to im- port licensing can be impor ted in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be im- ported under open ind iv idual licenses, i.e., w i thout limit as to quan t i ty or va lue. Imports of whole hams, other than hams preserved in airtight containers, are prohibited f rom all non-Sterling Area sources.11 Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mu t ton and lamb, pou l try mea t, and dairy products other than bu t ter and cheese are sub ject to m in imum import prices enforced through variable import levies. Permission to import f rom countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General License or some other fo rm of license, carries w i th it an en t i t lement to purchase for- eign currency or to credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is submitted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of pay- ment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England in all cases where the payment is considered necessary or in accordance w i th the tradi- tions of the trade and the continuance of the practice is considered to be essential. Exchange control forms are not required for payments to residents of the Sched- uled Territories, neither are they required for payments to residents of other countries, unless the payment rep- resents part or final settlement for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds £5,000, and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the b ank before mak ing the remittance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sched- uled Territories may be made free ly. Payments to resi- dents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require exchange control au thor iza t ion, which (except for paymen ts to residents of Rhodes ia)12 is granted free ly for all purposes other than sterling usance credits to finance trade directly between principals resident in non-Scheduled Territories outside the Overseas Sterling Area, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. 11 On F eb ru a ry 1, 1973, w i th the adoption by the Un i ted K ingdom of the EEC Common Ag r i cu l tu r al Policy, qu an t i t a t ive res t r ic t ions were removed f rom canned ham, cer ta in other canned p igmea t, and pre- pared pou l t ry f u l ly cooked, i r respec t ive of the o r ig in of the goods. 12 For secur i ty reasons, v i r t u a l ly all c u r r e nt paymen ts to Rhodes ia are proh ib i ted, except when these r e su lt f rom pe rm i t ted t r a de in goods. Consideration is, howeve r, given to rem i t tances on a l im i ted basis to relieve ha rdsh ip and to rem i t tances of a con t inu ing n a t u re by char i tab le, re l ig ious, med ica l, and edu c a t ion al o rgan iza tons for bo th cu r r ent purposes (whe re similar rem i t tances were made prior to November 11, 1965) or to meet cap i tal exp end i tu re in the edu- cational and medical fields. Small personal g i f ts are also pe rm i t ted where h um a n i t a r i an g rounds ex ist for the purpose. 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM The completion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding £1,000 or its equivalent. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles w i thout any limitation, and for other cate- gories up to established limits. Applications for pay- ments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of au thor i ty has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, provided that no unau tho r ized capital ou t f low is involved. Au thor ized banks may dispatch sterling bankno tes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against pay- ment in s ter l ing f rom an Ex ternal Account or in any fore ign cu r rency other th an Rhodesian currency. For any type of travel outside the Scheduled Terri- tories (except to Rhode s ia ), U. K. residents can obtain on demand f rom banks and au thor ized travel agents foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of £300 a per- son a trip; for travel for business or professional rea- sons, an allowance of <£40 a day up to a max imum of <£ 2,000 for any one journey can be authorized by banks and certain authorized travel agents. Applications for additional amoun ts are approved by the Bank of England unless there is reason to suspect that the exchange is to be used for purposes other than genuine travel expenditure. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the United King- dom. Travel exchange purchased in the United Kingdom must norma l ly be recorded in the traveler's passport. Under arrangements agreed with certain banks, personal checks may be cashed abroad for travel purposes, up to £30 per check, if backed by check cards. Credit cards may be used free ly to settle travel expenses. Resi- dent travelers may take out up to £300 in foreign cur- rency notes. Any unused travel exchange must be sur- rendered within one month of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one month of return to the United Kingdom.13 Travel facilities expressed in sterling may be held for six months f rom the date of issue or for one month f rom the date of re turn to the United King- dom, if later. In addition, resident travelers may take with them up to £25 in U . K. and other Scheduled Territory banknotes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those traveling direct to the Republic of Ireland or the Channel Islands may take out any amount. Visitors are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of £25 expressed in the currencies of the United Kingdom or the Republic of Ireland. 13 With effect f rom Janua ry 27, 1973 a traveler, whatever his period of absence from the United Kingdom, was perm i t ted to retain any unused travel facilities expressed in fo re ign currency for a period of one month f rom the date of his re tu rn to the United K ingdom. This brought the rules into line with those applied to the surrender of unused fore ign currency obtained abroad by the use of a check gua ran tee card. Fur thermore, banks were given delegated au tho r i ty enabling them to approve applications by U. K. residents who wish to open fore ign currency accounts outside the Scheduled Territories for the receipt of travel f u n ds for use du r ing the ir stay abroad. 494 Au thor ized banks are perm i t ted to approve, w i th in cer ta in l im i ts and subject to the submission of appro- priate documen ta ry evidence of the amoun ts due, appli- cations to pay fees, accommodation charges, and all incidental expenses arising f rom the educa t ion of U. K. residents outside the Scheduled Territories. Special regulations apply to all travel to Rhodesia. For approved off ic ial and essential business jou rneys the Bank of Eng land w i ll au thor ize the issue of fo re ign cur- rency at a ra te of up to £ 10 a day w i th a m a x im um of £250. Facilities for p r iva te t ravel are au tho r i z ed on ly where the re a re compass iona te g round s. Exports and Export Proceeds Expor ts to Rhodesia are sub ject to l i c en s ing control and licenses a re not n o rm a l ly issued. V i r t u a l ly a ll exports to o ther de s t ina t ions are f r ee of license. No exchange con t rol fo rms are requ i red. Expor ters to coun- tr ies outside the Scheduled Territories o ther than Rho- desia must no rma l ly obtain appropr ia te payment w i th in six mon ths of sh ipmen t; special exchange control per- mission to collect at a la ter date is required on ly where the expor ter extends credit for more t h an six mon ths without cover f rom the Export Credits Guaran tee Department (ECGD ). Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an au tho r ized bank unless the recipient has obtained specific permission to credit them to a retained currency account (sub ject to super- v is ion) or permission has been given for them to be used for some other purpose. Perm i t ted exports to Rho- desia must be paid for prior to sh ipment in any foreign cu r rency other than Rhodesian cu r rency or, if specific permission is gran ted by the Bank of Eng land, in ster- ling f r om the Rhodes ian Special Accoun t. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in fore ign cu r renc ies on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an au thor ized bank, unless recipients of such currencies have permission to credit them to a retained cu r rency account or to use them for some other purpose. British and other bankno tes may be brought in to the United K ingdom f ree ly. Capital Residents of the Un i ted K ingdom who receive fo re ign currency other than Rhodesian cu r rency f rom certain capital account sources (m a in ly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities and the sale or liquidation of direct investments held outside the Scheduled Terri- tories, Overseas Sterling Area, and EEC or of personal property s i tua ted outside the Scheduled Territories) may, in certain circumstances and with permission, use the exchange (wh ich is regarded as inve s tment currency once permission has been g iven) for the purchase of marke tab le foreign cu r rency securities, the purchase of personal proper ty outside the Scheduled Territories, or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the mak ing of ce r ta in app roved direct inves tmen ts ( in practice only those ou ts ide the Overseas S ter l ing A r e a ); they may also sell the exchange for s te r l ing to other residents to be used for the same purposes. If permis- sion is not f o r t h c om i n g, the fo re ign cu r r en cy must be offered for sale at the rates ru l ing in the official market to an au tho r ized bank in the Un i ted K ingdom. If per- mission is g ran ted, however, the equ iva lent in fore ign cu r rency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must normally be sold to an au tho r ized bank for sterling at the official ma rket ra te of exchange .14'15 This "25 per cent require- ment" is not app l icab le, however, to the proceeds f rom the sale or redemp t ion of fore ign currency securities payab le solely in an Overseas Sterling Area currency or payable in such a cu r rency and s ter l ing. In certain cir- cumstances, res iden ts of the Un i ted K ingdom who are fo re ign na t iona ls and who have obtained exemption f rom the ir l iab i l i t ies und er the Exchange Control Act in respect of assets denom ina ted in the currency of the coun t ry of the ir n a t i o n a l i ty may obtain permission for the sale proceeds of exempted securities to be sold for s ter l ing in the inves tment currency market up to 75 per cent of the amount concerned. In rare circum- stances, exempted cash balances may also be sold as inves tment currency. There are no restrictions on capital t rans fe rs by resi- dents of the United K ingdom to other Scheduled Terri- tories. All cap i tal t rans fe rs by residents to coun tr ies outside the Scheduled Terr i tor ies require approva l. Each indi- v idual resident of the United K ingdom may, f rom his own resources, make cash g i f ts not exceeding a total of <£ 1,000, or the equ iva lent in fo re ign currency, du r ing each calendar year to residents of the Overseas Sterling Area, as well as a fu r th er <£300 or the equivalent to residents of o ther countries outside the Scheduled Terri- tories except Rhodes ia ;16'17 additional amoun ts may be allowed und er app rop r ia te circumstances. The cash gifts 14 Where c u r r e n cy is received f r om s im i lar sources by res iden ts of o ther Scheduled Te r r i to r ie s, permission may also be given for such f u n ds to be rega rded as inve s tment cu r r en cy; in th is case, the 25 per cent r equ i r em ent would no rma l ly app ly, but for securities owned p r ior to Ap r il 7, 1965, or any other fo r e ign cu r rency securi- ties der ived t h e r e f r om by way of "switches," the r equ i r em ent applies on ly on o u t r i g ht sales for s ter l ing or for re inves tment in sterling secur i t ies. 15 The f u ll amount of the cu r rency proceeds is no rm a l ly perm i t ted to be sold as investment cu r rency when a personal proper ty has been held for p r iva te use; when it has been held as an inves tmen t, however, the "25 per cent requ i remen t" is no rma l ly applied. 16 W i th e f fect f rom J anu a ry 31, 1973, residents of the United K ing- dom could upon application make, w i th in their cash g i ft allowances of £1,000 and £300 a year, personal loans as well as ou t r ight g if ts to nonresidents. The au tho r i ty to banks previously re la ted only to o u t r i g ht g i f t s. 17 W i th e f fect f r om Janua ry 31, 1973 every resident of the United K ingdom w i th dependen ts who are established residents of countries outside the Scheduled Terr i tor ies other than Rhodesia could make paymen ts from his own resources not exceeding £2,000 a year to support those dependen ts. Such paymen ts, which could be g i f ts or loans, were ou t s ide the cash g i ft scheme and would not p re jud ice the no rmal cash g i ft allowances. Banks were given au tho r i ty to approve such paymen t s. The ir au tho r i ty prev ious ly re la ted on ly to remittances for the suppo rt of dependent re la t ives by persons of non- Scheduled T e r r i to ry n a t i o n a l i ty who were, for exchange con trol pu r- poses, res ident in the Un i ted K ingdom. UNITED KINGDOM allowance is noncumu la t ive and is not t rans fe rab le f rom one resident to another. For security reasons, no capital t rans fe rs are allowed to Rhodesia, whe ther in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian securities, or by any other means. Direct inves tmen ts in the Overseas Sterling Area requ ire approva l; this is no rma l ly granted and for app roved pro jec ts fo re ign currency is made ava i lab le w i thout l im i ta t ion at official market rates of exchange. For direct investments in non-Scheduled Territories out- side the Overseas Sterling Area and the EEC, official exchange is no rma l ly made ava i lab le only for certain projects directly concerned with promo t ing exports of goods and services where the prospective benefit to the U. K. balance of paymen ts is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the inves tment w i th in 18 months and to con t inue the rea f te r; this benefit will normally occur by way of additional export receipts, but may also arise f rom prof i ts and other foreign currency receipts that would not take place without the invest- ment. For such projects ("super-criterion projects"), official exchange may be made available up to £250,000 or 50 per cent of the total investment, whichever is larger; any balance must be financed by foreign cur- rency borrowing, the use of investment currency, the export free of payment of capital equipment and stock- in-trade form ing an integral part of the investment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresidents on appro- priate terms, by the capitalization of an overseas sub- sidiary's current account indebtedness to the U. K. par- ent company, or by approved profit retention. Direct investment other than for super-criterion projects is considered on the basis that its capital cost should not fall directly upon the U. K. official fore ign exchange reserves at least un t il an equivalent amount has been received in the United Kingdom by way of benefits arising f rom the investments; such investments can normally be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment currency, the export free of pay- ment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade fo rm ing an integral pa rt of the investment, by the issue or trans- fer of shares to nonresidents on appropriate terms, by the capitalization of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U. K. parent company, or by approved prof it retention. For all approved projects outside the Overseas Sterling Area, the permitted pro- portion of retained foreign currency earnings normally is one third of net earnings af ter taxes, applied on a global basis where more than one subsidiary is involved. The same rules apply to direct investment in non-Sched- uled Territories that are member countries of the EEC, with the exception that official exchange up to £1 million a project a year can be used to finance all new approved direct investments in member countries of the European Economic Community. The purchase of foreign currency securities outside the Scheduled Territories must be financed either with investment currency or with foreign currency borrow- 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM ing. Such borrowing is f ree ly perm i t ted when under- taken by or through U. K. professional security man- agers, and the resale of foreign currency securities acquired in this manner is exempt from the "25 per cent requ iremen t" un t il the loan po r t fo l io is l iqu id a t ed and the p ro f it repatriated. Purchases of marke tab le for- eign currency securities with investment currency are freely permitted by v i r tue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and other authorized depositories. Purchases f rom other residents may also be effected with sterling on a U. K. stock exchange (sterling prices reflect the p reva i l ing investment cur- rency p r em i um ). The purchase by U. K. residents of a house or apart- ment for personal use in countries outside the Scheduled Territories requires specific approval and must be made either f rom another Scheduled Territory resident for sterling or another Scheduled Territory currency or f rom a nonresident of the Scheduled Territories with investment currency; payment for attendant expenses and improvements, but not ma in tenance, must also be made with investment currency. (As an exception to this rule, residents tempo ra r i ly employed in the Over- seas Sterling Area or member countries of the EEC may be authorized to purchase necessary accommoda- tion at current official market rates of exchange.) Approval is norma l ly limited to one property a fam i ly, and purchases of investment currency are norma l ly limited to reasonable amounts. All proceeds f rom the realization, redemption, or ma tu r i ty of sterling capital assets ( inc lud ing direct in- vestments) owned by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories other than residents of Rhodesia are remit- table at the official rate of exchange. Payments to non- resident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due f rom the estates of deceased residents; so also are capital paymen ts under life and other insur- ance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance companies. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Scheduled Territories and apply to t rans fer their assets are, on their departure f rom the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control pu r- poses as nonresidents, and, w i th the following excep- tions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non-Scheduled Territory nationals, o ther than Rho- desians, who hav ing been resident in the United King- dom re tu rn to take up residence in the ir coun t ry of na t iona l i ty) may no rma l ly t ran s fer a ll their sterling assets abroad at the official rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries out- side the Scheduled Territories and the Overseas Sterling Area except Rhodesia are allowed on depar ture to trans- fer for a fam i ly un it up to £5,000 th rough the off ic ial fore ign exchange market and may export any foreign currency securities they hold; the rema in ing declared 496 assets in excess of £5,000 are restricted for a fou r- year period f rom the date of the depa r t ing person's redesignation as a non res iden t. U .K. residents t a k i ng up residence and emp loyment in member countries of the EEC, however, may, w i th specific app rova l, t rans fer s ter l ing assets at the official ra te of exchange in excess of the £5,000 l im it where th is is necessary in order to ensure their freedom to take up the emp loyment in question. For em igra t ion to the Overseas Sterling Area, the basic settling-in allowance is £20,000 (w i th a simi- lar concession for those tak ing up emp loymen t ), also available at the official rate of exchange, and holdings of fore ign currency securities are exportable. Du r ing the fou r -year period the restricted f u n ds may be dis- posed of for fo re ign currencies other than Rhodesian cu r rency th rough the inves tment cu r r en cy m a rk e t, or may be invested in sterling securities which are quoted on a U. K. stock exchange, the income the re f rom being freely remittable through the off ic ial exchange market. A f t er the fou r -year period any rema in ing assets are transferab le in accordance w i th the rules then applicable to the assets of a non res iden t; at present, the t rans fer at the official rate of exchange is no rma l ly allowed. The par t ic ipa t ion of foreign capital as a direct invest- ment in the Un i ted K ingdom is subject to ind iv idual au tho r iza t ion, which is no rma l ly g ran ted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an approved m ann er of payment (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the fore ign currency received must be surren- dered at rates ru l ing in the official market unless per- mission has been given for the f u n ds to be used for some other purpose. Cases invo lv ing the takeover of existing compan ies that by their size or na tu re consti- tu te a v i tal pa rt of British i n d u s t ry are considered on their merits. Permissions given for direct investments in the Un i ted K ingdom by nonres iden ts no rma l ly are, unless otherwise agreed w i th the Bank of Eng land, con- ditional on the consideration being paid in sterling from an Ex te rnal Account or in fore ign cu r rency (other than Rhodesian cu r r en cy) and any subsequent f inance being provided in fore ign cu r rency at least in propor t ion to the nonres ident in terest in the equ i ty of the company. Foreign-owned f irms and fo re ign ind iv idua ls must obtain Treasury permission in order to raise capital in the Un i ted K ingdom, and U. K. resident subsidiaries of fo re ign companies are requ ired to obtain consent before borrow ing in the Un i ted K ingdom or before issuing shares or other securities to nonres iden ts. Such permis- sion is n o rm a l ly given for bo r row ing for the purpose of financing the company 's day-to-day business, but is not no rma l ly given for any expansion of m anu f a c tu r ing capacity except for companies whose activities are regarded as b r ing ing special advan tages to the U. K. economy. There are three impo r t ant exceptions to these pr inc ip les: ( 1) Un l im i ted s te r l ing borrow ing in the United K ingdom is n o rm a l ly allowed by U. K. com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution panics in which any nonresidents have less than a con- trolling interest, except by companies which are purely vehicles for portfolio investment. (2) U. K. companies controlled by residents of the EEC that are not purely vehicles for por tfo l io investment norma l ly are allowed to raise un l im i ted sterling finance for their operations anywhere in the United Kingdom, provided that the controlling shareholders are not themselves controlled by, or acting as nominees for, residents of other coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories and the Overseas Sterling Area. U. K. companies controlled by residents of any country outside the Scheduled Territories and the Overseas Sterling Area no rma l ly are allowed similar facilities only in respect of new expenditure in the areas of the United Kingdom which qua l i fy for special gov- ernment assistance ( the assisted a rea s ). (3) U. K. com- panies controlled by residents of the Overseas Sterling Area that are not purely vehicles for por tfo l io invest- ment have unlimited access to sterling f inance for their operations in the United Kingdom. U. K. banks are prohibited f rom providing sterling loans or overdrafts to persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories and the Overseas Sterling Area for the purpose of f inanc ing trade between non-Sched- uled Territories outside the Overseas Sterling Area, but sterling lending to residents of the Overseas Sterling Area to finance trade w i th such non-Scheduled Terri- tories is unres tr ic ted. Borrowing by U. K. residents f rom nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories to f inance expenditure in the United Kingdom is subject to restriction. U. K. resi- dents other than authorized banks norma l ly are not per- mitted to borrow fore ign currency f r om nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories for conversion into sterling for use in the Un i ted K ingdom, or to f inance current paymen ts to nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories, unless the term of the borrowing is at least five years; exporters, merchants, and certain commodity traders are, however, pe rm i t ted to borrow fore ign currency for shorter periods f rom authorized banks to finance their sales. Authorized banks must not lend foreign currency to U. K. residents other than authorized banks for any other purpose w i thout prior reference to the Bank of England. Under certain permissions delegated to authorized depositories, transactions in securities of all types may generally be carried out free ly between residents of the United Kingdom, except that transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on a recognized stock exchange in the United K ingdom. Residents are nor- mally perm i t ted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign cu r rency securities outside the Scheduled Terri- tories, and, a f ter 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange where appropr ia te (see above ), to reinvest the balance of the exchange proceeds (investment cur- r en cy) in o ther m a rk e t ab le fore ign cu r rency securities, UNITED KINGDOM or to sell the exchange to other residents for such invest- ments or for certain approved direct investments outside the Scheduled Territories. When fore ign currency se- curities expressed in currencies other than Overseas Sterling Area currencies are sold on a U. K. stock ex- change for sterling, an amount of investment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the investment currency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers mak ing a "book" may on application be exempt f rom the 25 per cent requirement in respect of transactions on the "book." Investment currency held for a continuous period of 6 months ceases to be inves tment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the f o rm of fore ign currency (o ther than Rhodesian cu r rency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of the 6-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the cur- rent market rate in the official foreign exchange market, except for certain authorities for the purchase of pri- vate property outside the Scheduled Territories where investment currency may be retained for up to 18 months w i thout the 25 per cent requirement being im- posed. Investment currency may only be retained as investment currency for a max imum of 12 months, af ter which period any amount remaining must be offered for sale to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market.18 Professional security managers on the ir own behalf and for clients are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency for the purpose of making po r t fo l io investments in marke tab le foreign currency securities. U. K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, arrange day-to-day borrowing of for- eign currency, whether f rom U. K. banks or f rom non- residents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other Scheduled Territories are not pre- vented by the U. K. regu la t ions f rom buy ing and selling sterling securities in the Un i ted K ingdom; they may also buy and sell, subject to certain conditions, Rhodesian securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom, but they must obtain the permission of the U. K. authorities to buy and sell other securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the United K ingdom in wh ich a nonresident of the Scheduled Territories is involved as either t rans fe ror or t rans fe ree, but most t ran s fe rs are covered by a general au tho r i ty. In most cases, U. K. companies may issue 18 Inves tment cu r rency may be invested t empo r a r i ly in shor t- term gove rnment bonds (w i th up to s ix mon ths to run be fo re f inal m a t u r i t y) or in s ix-mon th t reasu ry bills or o ther fo rms of recognized short-term money -ma rket paper ( i n c l u d i ng ce r t i f ica tes of depo s i t) w i thout i n c u r r i ng the need to comply w i th the 25 per cent r e q u i r e- ment on resale of the pape r. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM sterling securities (including bearer securities) under a general permission given by the U. K. authorities. Nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesian residents may buy sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom against payment in foreign currency or in sterling f rom an External Account. Securities so purchased may be exported f rom the United Kingdom. Foreign currency securities may be bought and sold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories on a stock exchange in the United Kingdom for settlement in foreign currency or, in certain circumstances, for settlement in sterling with- out the benefit of the investment currency premium. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United Kingdom other than on a stock exchange, whe ther or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonres iden ts other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom for External Account sterling and freely transfer the pro- ceeds abroad at official market rates. All transactions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of capital paymen ts on matured securities registered in the names of nonresi- dents other than Rhodesian residents may be dispatched freely to addressees outside the Scheduled Territories, and these wa r ran ts may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. Authorized banks may freely accept foreign cur- rencies from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories for deposit; such deposits may be re-lent to other non- residents or switched into sterling and made available to domestic borrowers. Individual ceilings are set on each bank's overall open position in foreign currencies and on the amount of spot assets which may be held against forward liabilities in foreign currencies. The Bank of England has authority to call for differential Special Deposits, but this authority has not so far been invoked. Gold Residents of the United Kingdom may freely buy, hold, or sell domestic and foreign gold coins. With this exception, residents of the United Kingdom other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, whether at home or abroad, unless they are specifically or generally permitted to do so; permission is granted restrictively and is generally limited to established genuine domestic requirements for industrial and professional purposes (including the manufac ture of gold medals, medallions, etc.). The Mint from time to time strikes gold sovereigns. Although legal tender, these do not circulate in the 498 United Kingdom. Gold coins which are legal tender have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the United King- dom or which, having been current there, has at any time af ter May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The import by any resident of the United Kingdom of gold bullion, gold coins, and gold medals, medallions, tablets or other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing in- scriptions is on Open General License, f r om all sources except Rhodesia, but the holding of, or dealing with, bullion is subject to restrictions, as stated above. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. Au tho r i ty has been given to authorized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bu l l ion and coin purchased by any non-Scheduled Territory resident in the London gold market against payment in External Account sterling or foreign cu r rency. A license is requ ired from the Depar tment of Trade and Indu s t ry for the export of gold jewe l ry, etc., con ta in ing d iamonds. The export of gold in m anu f a c tu r ed fo rm over 100 years old and valued at £2,000 and over also requires a license f rom the Depar tment of Trade and Indus try. Manu fac tu res of gold other than medals, medallions, tablets or other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing in- scriptions may be impor ted w i thout quan t i ta t ive restric- tion under Open General License f rom all sources except Rhodesia. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are free ly traded among (1) authorized dealers in gold, (2) any nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories, and (3) residents of the Overseas Sterling Area who are sellers of new production. The U. K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of 1A of 1 per cent is charged on all purchases; there is no commission on sales. The market operates on a spot cash basis. Authorized banks may not enter into forward transactions in gold without prior permission f rom the Bank of England. Banks may not finance purchases of gold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories by lending foreign exchange or by accepting gold as collateral for advances in foreign currencies or External Account sterling to nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories. Changes during 1972 January 1. A system of generalized tariff preferences for manufac tured and semimanufactured goods origi- nating in most developing countries came into effect. January 1. The fou r th and final installment of Ken- nedy Round tariff reductions came into force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 1. Imports of cheddar and cheddar-type cheese f rom Eastern Eu ropean countries ceased to be subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. January 1. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions on impo r ts of some a g r i c u l t u r al and o ther p roduc ts o r ig ina t ing in or consigned f r om the Eastern Area were l i f t ed. January 1. Impor ts of cotton textiles f rom the Com- monwea l th Preference Area (except the Republic of Ire land) became sub ject to cus toms du t ies ranging f rom 61/2 per cent to 17 per cent ad valorem. The existing general system of q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ions on these im- ports was m a in t a in ed. January 16. All ex is t ing licenses to import sugar were revoked. January 20. Qu an t i t a t ive restrictions on imports of certain da i ry produc ts o r ig ina t ing in or consigned f rom the Dollar Area were removed. January 22. Membership negotiations w i th the EEC were completed. Among the special arrangemen ts agreed upon were the following. The United Kingdom would comply over a five-year trans i t ional period from accession w i th the obligations of the EEC Council Di- rectives of May 11, 1960 and December 18, 1962 cov- ering capital movemen ts. Dur ing the first two years a f t er accession, the Un i ted K ingdom would remove restrictions on direct inves tmen ts made by U. K. resi- dents in EEC countries and, to the extent that restric- tions applied, on l iqu ida t ions of direct investments in those coun tr ies by persons resident in the United King- dom; the relaxations would be in troduced in two stages, the first on accession and the second by the end of the second year the rea f te r. Th i r ty mon ths at the latest a f ter accession, the United K ingdom would liberalize the following personal capital transac t ions to EEC member countries: t rans fe rs of capital belonging to persons resi- dent in the United Kingdom who are emigrating; g if ts, endowments, and dowries; succession duties; and real estate inves tmen ts other than those connected with freedom of movement for workers, which would be liberalized f rom the date of accession. By the end of the transitional period, the United K ingdom would liber- alize por tfo l io investment in securities in accordance with the obligations. January 25. The European Communities Bill was published. Part I laid down the constitutional frame- work to give effect to Community law in the United Kingdom. Royal Assent was given on October 17. February 11. Bangladesh was listed as a separate Scheduled Territory. March 8. A supplementary import quota of 5,000 tons for bananas f rom the Dollar Area was established. A fu r th er supplementary quota of 5,000 tons was estab- lished in April. March 16. The Bank of England was prepared to consider specific applications by U. K. exporters ten- UNITED KINGDOM der ing for overseas contracts expressed in fore ign cur- rencies for fo rwa rd exchange cover between the date of submission and the date of ad jud ica t ion in respect of the amount of a tender or the cost of fo re ign com- ponents included in a tender price. March 16. New a r rangemen ts for fixed-rate med ium- term and long-term export and shipbuilding finance were in troduced. The clearing banks would provide fi- nance up to an amount equivalent to 18 per cent of their current account deposits (prev ious ly 10 per cent of gross depos i ts), and advances in excess of the agreed amount would be refinanced by the ECGD and the De- partment of Trade and Indus try (previously the Bank of Eng land ). The rate of interest for export finance was lowered f rom 6l/2 per cent to 6 per cent, except for ships, the fixed rate for which remained at 7 per cent. March 21. It was announced that a value-added tax would be introduced in Apr il 1973 w i th a single rate, provisionally fixed at 10 per cent. March 22. The vo lun tary program of restraint on investment in developed Overseas Sterling Area coun- tries was terminated. Under this program, introduced on May 3, 1966, companies planning direct investments in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and the Re- public of Ireland had been asked to consult the Bank of England about the financing of projects costing more than <£25,000 (and, on consultation, to agree to post- ponement or to methods of finance, normally appro- priate overseas borrowing, that would protect the United Kingdom's foreign exchange reserves), and investment institutions had been asked to refra in f rom adding to their portfolio holdings of securities in the four countries. March 22. The Treasury ceased to insure the exchange risk for fore ign currency borrow ing by nationalized industries and local authorities. (Since July 1971, cover had been restricted to borrowing for peri- ods of ten years and over.) On March 6, 1973 this fac i l i ty was restored. March 22. Subject to a limit of <£! million a pro- ject a year, official exchange was made available for all new approved direct investments in member countries of the EEC, Denmark, and Norway. (Previously, offi- cial exchange for direct investment in all countries out- side the Sterling Area was allowed up to £250,000 or 50 per cent of total cost for "super-criterion projects," and more stringent rules applied to other projects.) The relaxation would not be applied retroactively; thus the early repayment of foreign currency borrowing already taken and applied to existing projects would not be per- mitted. It was officially estimated that 90 per cent of all new investment projects in the enlarged EEC and over 50 per cent by value were likely to be eligible for finance entirely at official rates of exchange. These and the measures listed in the following two entries were the first exchange control measures to d i f fe ren t ia te between 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM EEC countries (and applicants) on the one hand, and other non-Sterling Area countries on the other. March 22. U. K. companies controlled by residents of member countries of the EEC, Denmark, or Nor- way and not being purely vehicles for portfolio invest- ment henceforth normally were allowed to raise unlim- ited sterling finance for their direct investment opera- tions anywhere in the United Kingdom, provided that the controlling shareholders were not themselves con- trolled by, or acting as nominees for, residents of other countries outside the Sterling Area. (Previously, they had to provide all or part of their fixed asset finance from sources outside the Sterling Area.) U. K. com- panies controlled by residents of any other country outside the Sterling Area normally would be allowed similar facilities only in respect of new expenditure in the areas of the United Kingdom which qualified for special government assistance (the assisted areas). March 22. The foreign currency proceeds of the sale or liquidation of direct investments in member countries of the EEC, Denmark, and Norway, whenever made, were no longer normally regarded as investment currency. April 1. Open licensing for imports of butter was continued for 1972/73 from all sources except Rhodesia and licenses were to be issued freely for near-butters. Imports of cheddar and cheddar-type cheese also con- tinued to be permitted without quantitative restrictions; the voluntary restraint arrangement with the principal suppliers remained in being but continued suspended. April 1. Bacon import quotas for the year 1972/73 were reduced by 10,340 tons compared with the pre- vious year. April 14. It was announced that unlimited sterling borrowing in the United Kingdom would normally be allowed by U. K. companies in which any nonresidents had less than a controlling interest, except by companies which were purely vehicles for portfolio investment. Previously, such companies had been required to finance their fixed assets from nonresident sources at least in proportion to the nonresident equity interest. April 18. The British Solomon Islands, Brunei, and the United Arab Emirates, all previously included by definition in the list of Scheduled Territories, were inc luded by name. April 27. The vo lun tary scheme restricting sterling financing of silver stocks held by members of the Lon- don Bullion Market and the London Metal Exchange was suspended. The request to banks to observe restraint in their silver transactions was w i thdrawn at the same time. May 1. The United Kingdom commenced participation in the EEC "narrower margin" arrangements of April 24 designed to ensure that the max imum divergence f rom cross-parities between any two currencies of the 500 member states of the EEC did not exceed 21A per cent. The Bank of England, which previously quoted buying and selling rates only for sterling against the U. S. dollar, was prepared to deal with authorized banks in certain continental European currencies (those of EEC members and the Danish krone) at published official rates of exchange for spot telegraphic transfers up to the time each day that the counterpart central banks concerned ceased their dealing operations in their own markets; the official buying and selling rates for tele- graphic transfers in U. S. dollars on New York remained unchanged. On May 23, these intervention arrangements were extended to the Norwegian krone. The United Kingdom withdrew on June 23. May 22. Unpasteurized frozen grapefru it juice con- centrate was placed on the Open General Import License for import from the Dollar Area. May 26. Special provisions were introduced for residents of the United Kingdom intending to take up established residence and employment in member countries of the EEC, Denmark, and Norway. The Bank of England was prepared to consider applica- tions from such persons wishing to be regarded as resident in their new country of employment, to trans- fer upon departure sterling assets in excess of the normal emigration allowance of £5,000 to their new established country of residence, at the official rate of exchange. The Bank of England was also prepared to consider applications for special exchange provisions from residents of the United Kingdom taking up temporary employment in those countries, including provision for settling-in expenses and unforeseen cur- rent expenditure. May 31. U. K. residents who were, or were to. be, temporarily employed in the EEC, Denmark, or Nor- way, were permitted to purchase foreign currency at the current market rate in the official exchange market and remit the funds to the country concerned to meet the cost of accommodation, i.e., to purchase property for private use. Previously, investment currency normally had to be used. June 6. The authority to authorized banks to lend sterling to nonresident account holders for the purchase of a house or flat in the United Kingdom for the account holder's own occupation and for certain other personal payments in the United Kingdom was raised f rom £10,000 to £25,000. June 19. Specified items inc lud ing fabrics and cloth- ing were placed on the Open General Impo rt License for import from the Eastern Area. June 23. The Government announced tha t, as a temporary measure, sterling would be allowed to float. For the time being the market rate for sterling would not necessarily be confined w i th in announced limits either in respect of the U. S. dollar or in respect of EEC currencies. It was the Government's intention to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution return as soon as conditions would permit to the ma in- tenance of normal IMF margins around parity and participation in the special EEC currency arrangements. The Bank of England suspended all intervention rates. June 23. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on June 27 with the Bank of England no longer ma in ta in ing official dealing limits. The pound began to depreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the middle rate for which had been <£! = US$2.6057. June 23. As a fu r ther precaution against fresh spec- ulative outflows, since the market rates for many Ster- ling Area currencies were no longer necessarily linked to sterling, an extension of exchange control was announced. Exchange control was introduced between the United Kingdom (including the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) and the countries of the Sterling Area other than the Republic of Ireland (the Republic of Ireland took parallel action) and controls, and in certain cases restrictions, were imposed on resident capital outflows from the United Kingdom to other Overseas Sterling Area countries. Current payments to these countries would not be restricted. (Transitional arrangements were made to allow all payments due under contracts issued or entered into before June 23.) Accordingly, the Scheduled Territories were re- defined as the United Kingdom (including the Chan- nel Islands and the Isle of Man) and the Republic of Ireland (Gibraltar was readmitted to the Scheduled Territories on Janua ry 1, 1973); the External Account Area henceforth comprised all other countries except Rhodesia. (Previously, the Scheduled Territories were all Sterling Area territories and the External Account Area consisted of all non-Sterling Area countries except Rhodesia.) As a result, all persons, firms, or companies resident in non-scheduled Territories with the Overseas Ster- ling Area (i.e., countries that had now ceased to be Scheduled Territories) were to be regarded as nonresi- dents of the Scheduled Territories, so that all payments to, or on behalf of, or for the credit of, such persons required permission; all currencies of the countries con- cerned became foreign currencies, whereas previously foreign currencies were confined to non-Sterling Area currencies; and securities payable or optionally payable in the currencies of the countries concerned became foreign currency securities. Sterling securities hence- forth were defined as securities payable solely in the currencies of the Republic of Ireland or the United Kingdom (or, since January 1, 1973, in Gibraltar cur- rency ). June 23. Detailed regulations implementing the new exchange control principles were issued. Inward and outward direct investment involving the fo rmer Sched- uled Territories (i.e., the non-Scheduled Territories in the Overseas Sterling A rea) now required individual approval. Portfolio investment in securities expressed UNITED KINGDOM in the currencies of those countries had to be financed in the same way as investment in any other foreign currency security, i.e., normally with investment cur- rency or borrowed foreign currency. Purchases of land and property for private use by U. K. residents also required individual approval and had to be financed with investment currency. Insurers in the United King- dom could no longer issue to residents of the United Kingdom or the Republic of Ireland annuities and life and endowment policies expressed in the currencies of the former Scheduled Territories. Export proceeds in such currencies normally had to be collected within six mon ths of shipment and offered for sale to an authorized bank. Advance paymen ts for imports from the countries concerned required Bank of England app rova l. Authorized banks' positions in the currencies of these countries became subject to the l im i ta t ions pre- viously applicable only to non-Sterling Area currencies. Borrowing in their currencies became subject to approval and to the "five-year rule" restricting the borrowing of foreign currency by nonbank residents to a m in imum period of five years when intended for con- version into sterling for use in the United Kingdom. Residents ho ld ing accounts in the currencies of the countries concerned had to offer these for sale to an authorized bank, unless otherwise permitted by the Bank of England. The basic exchange allocations for travel were also now applicable to travel to these coun- tries. Residents of the United Kingdom required per- mission to set up, or add to, a trust or make a settle- ment in favor of, residents of these countries. New or increased sterling loans and overdrafts to bodies cor- porate and branches resident in the United Kingdom or the Republic of Ireland and controlled by persons resi- dent in the countries concerned required permission. The existing sterling accounts with U. K. banks of per- sons resident in those countries were to be redesignated External Accounts, and such accounts maintained with bu i ld ing societies, savings banks, etc., were to be redesignated "nonresident accounts." The restrictions on payments f rom the accounts in the United Kingdom of residents of Hong Kong and on securities held in the United Kingdom for such persons were to be abolished; their purpose had been to ensure that residents of other parts of the Sterling Area did not have access to Hong Kong's free exchange marke t. The new rules for residents of the Overseas Sterling Area differed in a number of respects from those apply- ing to residents of other countries of the External Ac- count Area. The following were the main differences: (i) While new direct investments in Overseas Sterling Area countries now required Bank of England approval, such approval normally would not be withheld and there would be no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange to be purchased at the current official market rate for any approved project, provided that the invest- 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM ment was not of a portfolio nature and the finance required was to be employed wholly within non-Sched- uled Territories that were part of the Overseas Sterling Area, ( i i) Existing sterling loan and overdraft facilities given to companies and branches in the United King- dom and the Republic of Ireland which were controlled by residents of Overseas Sterling Area countries could continue without formality, and applications for new or increased facilities would be dealt with by the Bank of England under the same rules applied to EEC-controlled companies, i.e., they would normally be allowed, (iii) U. K. banks could make sterling credit available to their branches and to customers in Overseas Sterling Area countries under existing lines of credit. They could also grant new facilities to residents of these countries as if they were still Scheduled Territories, provided, how- ever, that the facilities were linked to the movement of goods, ( iv) Trade between Overseas Sterling Area coun- tries and non-Sterling Area countries could continue to be financed in sterling, while sterling finance for trade between other External Account countries remained prohibited, (v) While the same rules would apply to Overseas Sterling Area securities as to other foreign currency securities, so that their purchase by U. K. resi- dents must normally be made with investment currency, there would be no requirement to exchange 25 per cent of the foreign currency proceeds of disposal for sterling at the official market rate of exchange, provided the securities were payable solely in the currency of an Overseas Sterling Area country or payable in such a currency and sterling; the whole of such proceeds could be reinvested or sold in the investment currency market, (v i) Emigrants to Overseas Sterling Area countries would in general be permitted to transfer immediately through the official market sterling capital assets up to £20,000 a family, while the ceiling for other External Account countries remained at £5,000. Special con- sideration would be given to those who had already made firm arrangements to emigrate, and to those tak- ing up employment in an Overseas Sterling Area coun- try, (v i i) The normal limit on cash gifts by U. K. resi- dents to Overseas Sterling Area countries would be £1,000 a donor a year, while that for other External Account countries remained at £300. June 23. The requirement that exchange control forms be completed for payments for invisibles in excess of £250 was amended to cover only payments in excess of £1,000. June 28. Authorized depositories were allowed to ar- range settlement in sterling in respect of transactions in Overseas Sterling Area securities in the United Kingdom on behalf of nonresidents at prices which excluded the investment currency premium. June 30. The Control of Payments (Hong Kong) (Revocation) Directions 1972 came into operation. These revoked the Treasury Direction (Hong Kong) 502 1950, which regulated the use of Hong Kong assets in the United Kingdom. Hong Kong No. 1 and No. 2 Accounts were redesignated External Accounts, and U. K. banks no longer were required to request the sub- mission of a permit from the Hong Kong exchange control authorities before allowing the debiting of such accounts, as was previously required for debits to Hong Kong No. 2 Accounts. July 17. Restrictions on coal exports were lifted. July 19. The Treasury issued a statement clarifying the position of the Sterling Area in the light of the extension of exchange control to the Overseas Sterling Area. The Sterling Area could be regarded as compris- ing the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and all other countries of the Overseas Sterling Area (i.e., all other countries and territories that prior to June 23 were either listed or administratively treated as Sched- uled Territories). It was also stated that for all Sterling Area countries to which exchange control now applied the rules were identical. July 19. The Overseas Investment and Export Guar- antees Act became operational. The ECGD announced that U. K. firms could obtain insurance cover against the noncommercial risks of expropriation, war damage, or restrictions on remittances, for new overseas direct investments of U. K. origin. July 25. To enable certain trust business to be com- pleted without delay, a number of general exchange control permissions were given relating to transactions involving foreign currency securities and beneficiaries in the Scheduled Territories and to be effected for vol- un tary consideration under settlements and trusts or in the course of administering estates. A general permis- sion was also given for the transfer of such securities by residents of the United Kingdom, by way of gift, to residents in the Scheduled Territories. All the permis- sions were conditional but the conditions did not include the "25 per cent requirement." August 18. The requirement for completion of exchange control fo rms for payments for imports in excess of £2,000 was amended to cover only payments in excess of £5,000. The same increase was made in the limit relating to exchange control copies of customs entries. Form E ceased to be required where the terms of a forward exchange contract were to be extended. August 31. The London Stock Exchange began to make available a daily dollar premium conversion factor that could serve to convert the sterling prices quoted for Overseas Sterling Area foreign currency securities, which include the investment currency premium, into the ster- ling equivalent net of that premium. September 5. Since securities payable or optionally payable in the currencies of non-Scheduled Territories that are part of the Overseas Sterling Area had on June 23 become foreign currency securities, restrictions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imposed on such securities under Section 40 of the Exchange Control Act, 1947 in accordance with Bank of England Notice EC 29 (re la t ing to the restriction of sterling assets upon emigration) were revoked. The securities concerned could be made freely available to the owners in their country of residence, but could not be sold for sterling in the United Kingdom for the benefit of the investment currency prem ium. September 11. Restrictions were imposed on the export of iron and steel scrap. September 19. Exchange control regulations govern- ing insurance were amended. In particular, an authority was given to banks to approve applications by insurers, other than members of the British Insurance Associa- tion, or by brokers, other than Lloyd's brokers, to make reinsurance paymen ts to residents of the Scheduled Ter- ritories in foreign currency without limit and to non- residents up to a limit of £500 in any one month in respect of each reinsurance contract. Authority was also given for members of the British Insurance Association and of Lloyd's to grant sterling loans not exceeding £25,000 to nonresidents for the purchase of a house or flat in the United Kingdom for the borrower's own occupation; to give and renew certain types of guaran- tees; and to make paymen ts in implementation thereof. September 26. Banks were no longer required to enter transfers of £5,000 or over between the External Accounts of residents of different countries on sched- ules of multilateral sterling transfers. October 1. Exports f rom Hong Kong to the United Kingdom of woven polyester/cotton fabrics and made- up goods became subject to agreed export restraints similar to those provided for under the existing cotton agreement between the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. October 13. A new "minimum lending rate," deter- mined by a fixed formula from the average discount rate for treasury bills established by the weekly tender, replaced the existing "bank rate" as the Bank of Eng- land's minimum rate for lending to the money market. October 24. The exchange control concessions intro- duced on March 22 and May 26 were withdrawn inso- far as they related to Norway and residents of Norway. October 31. The Bank of England addressed to banks and finance houses a memorandum concerning the appli- cation of d i f fe ren t ial Special Deposits on overseas deposits. All banks and finance houses affected by the proposals subsequently gave an assurance that they would abide by the arrangements set out in the memo- randum. The scheme provided for a uniform rate of call for Special Deposits to be applied to any increase from a specified starting date in each bank's eligible overseas liabilities, mainly its overseas sterling deposits. Calls could be made at the same time as, or separately from, a uniform rate of call applied to the total of each bank's eligible liabilities. The scheme also allowed the authorities to exempt from a general call each bank's UNITED KINGDOM overseas deposits outstanding or to make the call at a lower rate than on the remainder of their eligible liabil- ities. For the purpose of differential calls, overseas deposits would consist of overseas customers' sterling deposits with an original ma tu r i ty of two years or less, any net liability in sterling of U. K. banks to their overseas offices, and any net liability in other currencies. Where a d ifferen t ial call was made, sterling certificates of deposit (which are bearer documents subject to exchange control) would be classified as being held by U. K. residents and would therefore be subject to the rate imposed under a general call. Parallel arrange- ments for d ifferen t ial calls would apply to institutions maintaining public sector lending ratios. (By the end of 1972, no calls for d ifferen t ial deposits had been made.) November 6. The United Kingdom and Norway agreed to continue until the end of 1973 their mutual industrial free trade arrangements. November 9. Banks were reminded that funds origi- nating from an External Account and due to a resident of the Scheduled Territories were not eligible for credit to another External Account except where a general or specific permission had been given. November 9. Banks were advised that for administra- tive purposes the non-Scheduled Territories were divided as follows: ( 1) the existing EEC members plus Den- mark; (2) the Overseas Sterling Area, i.e., the countries which as at June 22, 1972 were treated as Scheduled Territories; (3) Rhodesia; and (4) all other countries. November 13. It was announced that import quotas on some Japanese cotton and pottery goods were being lifted altogether or increased. November 13. Small increases were made in the amounts which may, with the permission of the Bank of England, be transferred to Rhodesia for humani- tarian or hardship reasons. Limits on the release of Suspense Account monies for living expenses of Rho- desian visitors to the United Kingdom were also raised, and some fu r ther relaxation measures were announced, particularly with respect to cash gifts to relatives living in Rhodesia, the ma tur i ty proceeds of endowment assur- ance policies, and transfers in respect of education out- side the United Kingdom. Permitted charitable remit- tances, etc., would no longer be directly linked to the rate of sterling remittances made in 1965. November 16. In the context of entry into the EEC, some modifications of the Bank of England's rules on banking mergers and participations were announced. Among other things, EEC banks would be treated in the same way as British banks for the purpose of par- ticipations in British banks; each proposal, which would have to be acceptable to all parties concerned, would be considered on its individual merits, although the authorities' attitude elsewhere in the EEC to participa- tions by British banks might also be taken into account. 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM The liberal practice in relation to the establishment by third-country banks of branches or subsidiaries in Lon- don would continue and the attitude to participations by third-country banks would remain unchanged. November 20. The States of Jersey issued five com- memorative gold coins which were legal tender. November 23. Arrangements were announced for the maintenance of limitations on cotton textile imports into the countries acceding to the EEC in January 1973 (including the United Kingdom) at approximately the same level (with appropriate allowance for growth) as under bilateral arrangements currently existing between the importing and exporting countries concerned. November 24. Under the terms of the Sterling Guar- antee Agreements concluded with individual Overseas Sterling Area countries, the United Kingdom became liable to make up the difference between the old par va lue of £1 = US$2.40 and the middle rate of <£! = US$2.3506 at which sterling closed on November 23. The arrangement was that compensation would be nec- essary if the middle s ter l ing /U. S. dollar rate in London remained below its old lower limit of US$2.3760 for 30 consecutive days. The agreements applied to those Sterling Area members which in September 1968 under- took to keep a fixed m in imum proportion of their offi- cial reserves in sterling in return for a U. K. guarantee in terms of the U. S. dollar on any official sterling held in excess of 10 per cent of total reserves. Since the agreements had been concluded in a regime of fixed rates, consultations were started on the techniques for settlements under floating rates. (The terms of the guar- antee were disclosed on November 9.) November 29. General permissions for insurers in the United Kingdom to export foreign currency assurance policies were expanded in scope. General permission was also given for postal orders up to a value of £50 to be exported for specified purposes to countries in the Overseas Sterling Area: settlement of debts up to £50; payment for goods not exceeding £50 in value imported in to the Un i ted Kingdom; remittances to dependents; maintenance payments under court orders; and personal cash gifts of up to £50. December 14. General permission was given to allow personal representatives administering the estates of deceased residents of the Un i ted Kingdom to transfer certain securities w i thout exchange control formality to those beneficiaries with addresses in the Scheduled Territories. December 15. It was announced that conditions were not yet regarded as appropriate for a re turn to a fixed parity by the date of accession to the EEC, but that sterling would return to a fixed par i ty as soon as cir- cumstances permitted. December 22. The United Kingdom gave notice of termination of its trade agreement with South Africa. The agreement expired on Janua ry 31, 1973. 504 December 30. The United Kingdom gave notice of termination of its trade agreements with Australia, Can- ada, India, and New Zealand. These agreements, includ- ing the remaining provisions of the Ottawa Agreement of 1932, expired on January 31, 1973. December 31. The United Kingdom gave notice of termination of its trade agreement with Pakistan. The agreement expired on Janua ry 31, 1973. December 31. The United Kingdom ceased to be a member of EFTA. NOTE.—The fo l low ing changes took place on Janu- ary 1, 1973: January 1. The United Kingdom became a member of the EEC. The Anglo-Irish Free Trade Agreement remained in force. January 1. Gibraltar was reinstated as a Scheduled Territory under the Exchange Control Act, 1947. January 1. Additional goods could be imported from the Eastern Area under the Open General Import License. Most had been on Open Individual License. January 1. Licensing arrangements for cotton yarn and woven cotton textiles from restricted sources were modified. For goods exported on or after this date there would be no global quota, and cotton yarn and woven cotton textiles f rom all restricted sources would be imported under country quotas. (Imports from those Mediterranean countries which had agreements with the EEC would, no later than April 1, 1973, enter the United Kingdom free of quota restrictions.) January 1. An Open General License came into effect which eliminated quan t i ta t ive restrictions on exports to other EEC countries of certain nonferrous materials. Another Open General License dealt with exports to all destinations except Rhodesia of certain iron and steel scrap; the existing arrangements for export con- trols on iron and steel scrap were extended. January 1. The ECGD offered increased credit insur- ance cover (up to 40 per cent of the main contract) and widened financial facilities for exporters' subcon- tracts placed in member countries of the EEC. January 1. The remaining quantitative restrictions on imports of industrial goods of EEC origin were removed, as were those on certain agricultural products originating in member countries of the enlarged EEC. (Most remaining restrictions on agricultural products from these sources were removed on February 1, 1973.) Quantitative restrictions on imports of certain ju te goods f rom Austria, Finland, Iceland, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland also were removed. January 1. The United Kingdom gave notice of ter- mination with effect f rom February 1, 1973 of the U. K. Bacon Market Sharing Understanding. January 1. The Bank of England's new rules on mergers and participations in the banking field came into operation (see November 16, 1972, above). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Exchange Rate System * The par value of the United States Dollar is 0.818513 gram of fine gold, corresponding to US$38 a fine ounce or US$1.08571 = SDR 1. The converti- bility of the U. S. dollar into gold and other reserve assets has been suspended and exchange rates are not maintained within any stipulated margin f rom parity. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, North Korea, and Nor th Viet-Nam, and those imposed pur- suant to UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 232 and 253 on any transfer of funds to, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, any person in Rhodesia (includ- ing the authorities th e r eo f ), unless the funds are in payment of imports of strategic and critical materials of Rhodesian origin. The United States forma l ly notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Treasury Department deals with license applica- tions involving financial or commercial transactions directly or indirectly with Cuba, Nor th Korea, Rhodesia, and North Viet-Nam, or their nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, and the Rhodesian Sanc- tions Regulations. It also deals with license applications involving the blocked accounts in the United States of mainland China under the Foreign Assets Control Reg- ulations. The Foreign Direct Investment Program (FDIP) is administered by the Office of Foreign Direct Investments in the Department of Commerce. The Fed- eral Reserve Board administers the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program for banks and other financial institutions (VFCRP ). The Bureau of Customs of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are generally established and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agri- culture through the issuance of import licenses. The import quotas on sugar are allotted among eligible exporting countries in accordance with a statutory for- mula administered by the Department of Agriculture and are prorated among eligible importers under regu- lations administered by that Department. Allocations and licenses for imports of crude petroleum and * On February 12, 1973 the United States informed the Inter- national Monetary Fund that the President was requesting that the Congress authorize a proposal to the Fund that there be a 10 per cent reduction in the par value of the dollar from SDR 0.921053 to SDR 0.828948 (equivalent to US$42.222222 per fine ounce of go ld ). The anticipated change in the par va lue of the dollar was reflected in international markets at once. petroleum products are issued by the Department of the Interior. For items subject to export control, the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. Imports and Import Payments The importation of merchandise, as well as payment therefor, is prohibited under Treasury regulations, unless licensed, if such merchandise is of Cuban, North Korean, or North Vietnamese origin, or, unless the goods are strategic and critical materials, if the mer- chandise is of Rhodesian origin. Import quotas are in effect, pursuant to Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, for cotton, certain cotton waste, and certain semiprocessed cotton products, wheat and wheat products, most dairy products, and peanuts. Import quotas established by the Sugar Act are in effect for sugar and confectionery. With the exception of the import quotas for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, and butter oil, the quotas above, including those for sugar, are on a country-of-production basis. The United States is a party to the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Arrangement, which authorizes importing countries to request export- ing countries to limit or restrain exports of cotton tex- tiles under specified conditions, and, if the exporting country does not accede, to impose an import quota. The United States has concluded comprehensive bilat- eral agreements under the Long-Term Cotton Textile Agreement governing imports of cotton textiles, and agreements on man-made and woolen textiles have been reached with the main supplying countries. Global quotas are imposed on imports of crude petroleum and certain petroleum products. As at the end of 1972, imports of asphalt into Customs Districts I-IV (east of the Rocky Mountains) and of residual fuel oil for burning into District I (New England and the East Coast region) were virtually unrestricted.1 Imports of fresh, frozen, or chilled beef, veal, and mutton are governed by bilateral agreements as an alternative to mandatory quotas under the Meat Import Act of 1964; in June 1972, however, all meat quotas were sus- pended. The t rans fer of f u n ds to Rhodesia for most pur- poses other than payment for imports of strategic and critical materials (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) is permitted only under license. Other payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions which are permitted only under license; these exceptions are payments to or for the account of the 1 With effect from May 1, 1973 quan t i ta t ive controls on crude pe t ro leum and pe tro leum p roduc ts were te rm ina ted, import du t ies were suspended, and a system of import license fees was introduced. Impo r ts of ethane, propane, bu tanes, and asphalt we re f r ee of both license and fee. 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES authorities or nationals of Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions can be exported only under license issued by the Office of Mun i t ions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammunition to South Africa. Most exports to Rhodesia require licenses and generally no licenses are issued except for food and human i ta r ian items. All exports (except phonograph records, pub l ica t ions, and, to Cuba, limited g ift pa rce ls) to Cuba, No r th Korea, and North Viet-Nam, are subject to individual vali- dated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require ind iv idual validated licenses. For m a ny commodities, when exported to Western European countries, Australia, or Japan, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a f u ll year's shipments. The licensing requirements applicable to Poland and Romania are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries (except Yugos lav ia). Exports of certain commodities to all destinations have f rom time to time been subject to control for reasons of short supply. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are pro- hibited to and from Cuba, Nor th Korea, Nor th Viet- Nam, and Rhodesia. Individuals leaving or en ter ing the country with more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, travelers checks, money orders, and/ or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to the customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on cer- tain transactions with or involving Cuba, Nor th Korea, North Viet-Nam, and Rhodesia, and there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the country (as well as corresponding reporting require- ments for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). U. S. citizens or residents, when purchasing foreign stocks and debt obligations (including shares in off- shore mutual f u n d s) from foreigners, are subject to an Interest Equalization Tax (IET) equivalent to a bor- rowing charge of % of 1 per cent a year (the rate of tax being 11.25 per cent for certain acquisitions of stock and 0.79 per cent to 11.25 per cent, depending on maturity, for certain acquisitions of debt obligations, including bank loans, with a period remaining to maturity of one year or mo re ). Major exemptions 506 from the tax are direct investments, investments in less developed coun t r i e s ,2 purchases f rom other U. S. holders, debt obligations acquired in connection with exports, and the purchase of original or new issues when the President of the United States de term ines that the application of the tax will have such consequences for a fore ign coun try as to imperil or threaten to imperil the stability of the in te rna t ional monetary sys- tem, pu r su ant to which new or original Canad ian obli- gations are exempt, as are bank loans, whether denom ina ted in U. S. dollars or foreign currencies and regardless of maturity, that are made by foreign branches of U. S. banks to fo re ign bo r rowe rs .3 The Vo lun tary Foreign Credit Restraint Program (VFCRP) has resulted in the establishment of "guide- lines" for banks and nonbank f inanc ial institutions in respect of their fore ign assets. 4 A manda to ry Foreign Direct Investment Program (FDIP) has placed restraints on direct inve s tment by setting annu al limits on net capital ou tf low p lus reinvested earnings, and l im i t ing the amount of certain types of short-term financial assets held abroad by direct inves to rs .5 A direct inves tor is def ined as a person w i th in the United States who directly or indirectly owns or acquires 10 per cent or more of the voting power, right to receive income, or right to receive assets on liquidation of a foreign national. Three regional ceilings are enforced on the mak ing of direct investment during any year by direct investors which do not elect the m in imum 2 Among other countries the tax is applicable to Abu Dhabi, B ah am a s, B ah r a in, B e rmud a, I ran, Iraq, Kuw a i t -S audi Arabia Neu t ral Zone, Libyan Arab Republic, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. The law provides that the fo l low ing cannot be designated as less developed countries: Australia, Aus tr ia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Ge rmany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Liechten- stein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Ne ther lands, New Zea land, Norway, South Afr ica, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. The only European countries at present designated as less developed countries are Cyprus, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Malta, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. 3 In April 1973 the IET was extended through June 30, 1974 and amended as follows: (a) securities newly issued by foreigners to finance foreign direct investment in the Un i ted States were exempted, provided that the fo re ign investment was for a minimum period of ten years and that at least 50 per cent of the total cost was financed f rom abroad; (b) certain securities sold to foreigners which are subject to IET when sold to U. S. residents were exempted from U. S. estate taxes; and (c) the exemption for less developed countries was limited to corporations that have significant operations within such countries, thereby exc lud ing shipping companies registered in developing coun tr ies but owned by nonres iden ts and obtaining a sub- stantial portion of their income f rom operations outside such countries. 4 On May 16, 1973 it was announced that Federal Reserve System Regulations D, M, and Q were being amended as follows: (1) The reserve requirements on member banks' Euro-dollar borrowings and foreign branch loans to U. S. residents were with immediate effect reduced f rom 20 per cent to 8 per cent. (2) The reserve-free bases were being phased out over a period of approx ima te ly eight months. (3) The limitations on the rates of interest which member banks may pay on a single maturity deposit of $100,000 or more were sus- pended, regardless of ma tu r i ty (previously, the ceilings were sus- pended only for maturities of 30-89 days; interest payments on deposits with a m a tu r i ty of less than 30 days, other than official funds, remained p roh ib i ted ). On June 1, the Federal Reserve Board requested the agencies, branches, and nonmember bank subsidiaries of foreign banks to maintain voluntarily reserves of 8 per cent against Euro-dollar borrowings in excess of a base level. 5 Where the regulations require a company to repatriate more income than is allowed by host country laws or by business circum- stances, such as certain jo int ownership situations, specific relief may be granted by the Office of Foreign Direct Investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution world-wide allowable: G one for less developed coun- tries; 7 one for other countries judged to be dependent on a subs tan t ial con t inu ing inflow of capital that cannot be adequately met from non-U. S. sources ;s and one for all other coun tr ies .9 However, direct investors are virtually f ree to f inance new or additional direct invest- ments with long-term f u n ds and rolled-over short-term funds borrowed in any fore ign coun t ry except Canada. Canada is exempt f rom all balance of payments restraints, except for the application of the IET to some transactions. 10 Gold Residents may import, purchase, hold, and sell for numismatic purposes domestic and foreign gold coins minted before April 3, 1933. Gold coins minted af ter this date may be held if they have been determined to be of recognized special value to collectors. Licenses are required to import any gold coins minted in or af ter 1934, and generally are available only for gold coins of exceptional numismatic value. Import licenses are not normally issued for coins minted in 1960 or after. The import of counterfeit coins and restrikes is prohibited. Gold bu l l ion may not be held in the United States except by mone tary authorities and licensed industrial, professional, and artistic users. The purchase or holding of gold abroad by U. S. citizens and firms is also prohibited except under license for industrial, professional, or artistic use. Licensing authority is vested in the Secretary of the Treasury. Producers of gold may sell their output at free market prices either to licensed industrial users or abroad (except to mone- tary authorities). Gold may be freely imported by licensed users within the limitations of their authorized inventory holding. A license is required for the export of gold except gold recovered from natural deposits in the United States which may be exported without license. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restriction. Imports and exports of gold coins and gold bullion are free of customs duties and 6 During 1972, there were two types of minimum allowable. One type permitted the direct investor to make world-wide positive direct investment of not more than $2 million a year. The other permitted $2 million world-wide plus an additional $4 million which could be invested only in Schedule A countries. For 1973, a single minimum allowable of $6 million world-wide is permitted. 7 As defined for the purposes of the IET (see footnote 2). They are referred to as Schedule A countries. 8 Abu Dhabi, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, Canada, Hong Kong, I ran, Iraq, Iraq-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Ireland, Japan, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libyan Arab Republic, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Spain, and United Kingdom. They are referred to as Schedule B countries. 9 Referred to as Schedule C countries. These are mainly continental Western European countries and South Africa. 10 On February 12, 1973 it was announced that the IET and the FDIP would be terminated at the latest by December 31, 1974 and that the Federal Reserve Board would consider comparable steps for the VFCRP. This in ten t ion was reaffirmed on March 16, 1973 when the U. S. authorities emphasized that the phasing out of the controls on long-term capital outflows by the end of 1974 was intended to coincide with a strong improvement in the U. S. balance of payments position and that any steps taken dur ing the interim period toward the ir elimination would take due account of exchange market condi- tions and balance of payments trends. UNITED STATES other fiscal charges. Domestic sales of jewelry, includ- ing gold jewelry, are subject to excise duty at the rate of 15 per cent, while domestic sales of gold in any other form, including rare gold coins, are free of fiscal charges. The use of the international reserve assets of the United States has been limited to settlement of outstand- ing obligations and, in cooperation with the Interna- tional Monetary Fund, to other situations that might arise in which such use could contribute to international monetary stability and the interests of the United States. Changes during 1972 January 1. The fifth and final stage of the Kennedy Round tariff reductions came into effect. January 1. Increased quotas for oil imports into states east of the Rocky Mountains came into effect. One third of the increase was allocated to Canadian suppliers. January 1. Quantitative restrictions were imposed on imports of certain confectionery products. January 1. Legislation came into force which in effect terminated the ban on the importation of strategic and critical materials from Rhodesia. January 3. A three-year agreement with Japan was signed (retroactive to October 1, 1971) concerning exports to the United States of man-made fiber and wool textile products. Similar five-year agreements were signed with Korea, and three-year agreements with the Republic of China, Hong Kong, and Macao. Furthermore, a multilateral agreement covering trade in these products was signed with the Republic of China, Korea, and Hong Kong. January 10. The Treasury announced that U. S. gold producers, dealers, and refiners were not subject to the domestic price guidelines; the quoted U. S. market price of gold was permitted to reflect changes in gold prices on the London market. January 19. The President announced that the United States would not extend bilateral aid to countries that failed to pay adequate compensation for expropriated U. S. investments and that it would withhold support for fresh assistance to be supplied to such countries by international institutions which relied heavily on U. S. financing. These measures would be applied to new situations and not to current disputes. January 25. By amendment to the Rhodesian Sanc- tions Regulations, the Treasury formally revoked the embargo on imports of strategic and critical materials of Rhodesian origin and of ferrochrome produced from Rhodesian chromite. The general license issued also authorized transfers in payment for the commodities concerned. January 27. Licensing requirements were terminated for exports to most destinations of refined and unre- fined copper and copper-base scrap. 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES February 10. The Treasury announced that it had requested the IMF, prior to the proposed change in parity of the dollar, to reclaim from the Treasury $544 million in gold. February 10. Bilateral negotiations with Japan were concluded. Agreement was reached on various trade and capital liberalization matters. February 11. Bilateral negotiations with the EEC on trade issues were concluded. February 15. The Foreign Assets Control Regula- tions were amended to authorize U. S.-controlled firms located abroad to ship strategic merchandise to main- land China when the shipment has been authorized by certain host countries, and to remove the restric- tions on U. S.-controlled firms located abroad shipping technical data from any foreign country to mainland China. February 15. The Transaction Control Regulations were amended to authorize shipments of certain stra- tegic goods to mainland China, when shipment is made from and licensed by one of 14 specified foreign coun- tries (members of the Coordinating Committee for East- West Trade Policy). February 15. The IMF announced that it had decided, on the basis of a request from the Govern- ment of the United States, to terminate the Fund's investment in U. S. Government securities and to liqui- date the Fund's general deposit of gold held with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. February 15. The Export Regulations were amended. For export control purposes, mainland China was trans- ferred from Country Group Z to Country Group Y. As a result, the lesser controls applicable to the U. S. S. R. became applicable also to mainland China. March 3. The President issued an Executive Order establishing a Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements to oversee and carry out all textile trade agreements. March 9. The VFCRP guidelines were amended with immediate effect to prevent subsidiary banks in a hold- ing company from consolidating a newly acquired lending ceiling with ceilings of other banks in the same holding company. March 9. The Secretary of Agriculture announced an increase of about 7 per cent in meat imports as authorized under P.L. 88-482 and the bilateral agree- ments with supplying countries. March 10. Quotas for 1972 on imports of watches and watch movements from U. S. possessions were announced. March 16. A Presidential Order authorized the Over- seas Private Investment Corporation to extend its loan and guarantee programs to U. S. private investors in Romania and Yugoslavia. 508 March 30. The Treasury issued an explanatory statement concerning the impact of recent international currency realignments on the administration of the Antidumping Act. March 31. The Treasury issued regulations for the implementation of Titles I and II of the Financial Recordkeeping and Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act (P.L. 91-508, also referred to as the Foreign Bank Secrecy Ac t ). With effect from July 1, 1972 all persons maintaining foreign accounts were required to disclose that fact on their Federal income tax returns and to maintain ade- quate records of such accounts. In addition, persons transporting, mailing, or shipping from the United States to a foreign country, or receiving f rom outside the United States, domestic and /or foreign currency or bearer instruments in amounts in excess of US$5,000 had to report such transactions to the customs author- ities. Financial institutions were required to report to the Treasury any unusual currency transactions involv- ing amounts in excess of US$10,000, and to keep records for five years of all transfers into or out of the United States in excess of US$10,000. April 18. The Treasury released proposals to amend the Antidumping Regulations mainly with a view to speed up its investigation of charges. (Stricter anti- dumping regulations came into effect on January 8, 1973. On the same date, the Treasury imposed a countervailing duty on imports from a manufac turer enjoying subsidies in his home country.) May 5. It was announced that communications had been received from the steel producers of the EEC, the United Kingdom, and Japan expressing their intent to renew for three years the 1969 arrangements for voluntary restraint of steelmill products to the United States. The ceiling on the annual growth rate of such exports was reduced from 5 per cent to 2% per cent. (The producers of the United Kingdom had not par- ticipated in the earlier arrangement.) May 8. The par value was changed from 0.888671 gram of fine gold, equivalent to US$35 a fine ounce, to 0.818513 gram of fine gold, equivalent to US$38 a fine ounce. May 11. The President increased by 15 per cent the permissible amount of crude oil imports east of the Rocky Mountains during 1972. May 72. It was announced that the FDIP would be continued during 1972, with ceilings generally at the 1971 levels. The two-month extension of certain year- end deadlines would be made available again for the 1972 compliance year. The Office of Foreign Direct Investments would give particular attention to the problems of direct investors who shift from exporting to nonaffiliated foreign nationals to exporting to affili- ated foreign nationals, and of direct investors who utilized bank discount facilities for export sales to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign affiliates in 1970 and 1971. Provision would be made to assure consistent treatment of expropriation losses. May 15. The Ryukyu Islands were reclassified from Schedule A to Schedule B under the FDIP. May 16. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange opened a fu tures market for foreign currencies. May 26. The Department of the Interior issued new regulations allowing imports of crude and unfinished oils for use in petrochemical processes. They came into effect 30 days after publication. June 5. The President modified the controls on imports of cheese. The effect was that quotas were extended to certain types of high-priced specialty cheeses. June 16. The Office of Foreign Direct Investments issued revised instructions concerning applications for specific authorizations or exemptions from the general FDIP regulations. (1) The new guidelines allowed U. S. companies to enjoy better ratios of export credit to exports with their affiliated foreign companies. While the practice had been to grant relief based on the average of this ratio over the preceding four years, companies might now receive relief based on the three years (out of the last seven years) for which credit terms were the longest. Moreover, they were per- mitted to lengthen terms to affiliates whenever these were the customary arm's-length terms of trade. (2) Companies were allowed to float their own equity issues overseas and treat the proceeds as the equivalent of the proceeds of long-term foreign borrowing. The Office of Foreign Direct Investments, however, required evidence that these were stock sales that would not otherwise have occurred as well as assurances that the shares would be retained for investment by foreign nationals. (3) Any direct investor that had had affili- ated foreign national property expropriated by a for- eign government at any time during which the FDIP had been in effect could apply for specific authorization to make positive direct investment. June 26. The President directed the removal of all quantitative restrictions on meat imports for the remain- der of 1972. June 26 and June 30. A number of revisions to the FDIP regulations were announced, effective July 1. ( 1) Direct investors could substitute foreign borrow- ing for borrowing by the direct investor f rom its over- seas finance subsidiary, and treat the new borrowing as a continuance of the borrowing for which it was substituted. (2) Direct investors could assume obliga- tions incurred by their overseas finance subsidiary to repay overseas borrowing (or borrowing that would qua l ify as overseas borrowing) if it were continuously ou ts tand ing for at least 12 months. ( 3) Greater flexibility was provided for the holding and allocation of avail- able proceeds of long-term borrowings. (4) The use of U. S.-source financing to reduce export credit extended UNITED STATES by a direct investor to its affiliated foreign companies would no longer constitute a negative transfer of capi- tal under the regulations, provided the U. S.-source financing was exempt from restraint under the VFCRP. (On January 2, 1973, the following contemplated changes were announced: (a) credits extended by direct investors to their affiliated foreign nationals with respect to the export sale or lease of qualifying U. S. goods and services on normal commercial terms would be exempted under the FDIP regulations; (b) the alternative minimum positive direct investment allowables would be consolidated into a single world- wide minimum allowable of $6 million a year; and (c) as in the 1971 and 1972 program years, direct inves- tors would be allowed to count certain transactions effected in the first two months of 1974 for purposes of computing their 1973 program compliance in respect of the repatriation of foreign claims. (Since in accord- ance with (a) the extension of qualifying export credits would be exempt from charge under the FDIP after December 31, 1972, repayments of such credits to the direct investor after that date would not be counted as negative transfers of capital for 1973 or subsequent compliance years.) The exemption of qualifying export credits would eliminate any substantial distinction between the FDIP and the other U. S. capital controls in the treatment of extension of export financing.) June 30. The reciprocal trade agreement with Vene- zuela was partially terminated. The amended agree- ment continued in effect most-favored-nation treatment for the exports of each country into the other and provided for continuation of U. S. tariff concessions on petroleum imports. July 19. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York reactivated the swap network and drew on its swap agreement with the Deutsche Bundesbank. The Federal Reserve System thus resumed intervention in the for- eign exchange markets. It was also announced that Federal Reserve operations in defense of the Smith- sonian Agreement would be undertaken whenever advisable. (This was followed on August 10 by a draw- ing on the agreement with the National Bank of Bel- gium and sales of Belgian francs. Between July 19 and September 1, sales of foreign currencies totaled US$31.5 million.) July 25-28. Economic discussions were held with Japan, and understandings were reached on bilateral and multilateral trade issues. August 9. New requirements for the filing of FDIP reports were announced. As already announced on March 17, 1972, reporting of repayments of long-term foreign borrowing or transfers of capital charges for repayments of overseas borrowings was unaffec ted by changes in currency values subsequent to the borrowing. Such repayments and transfers were to be reported in terms of U. S. dollar equivalents prevailing at the time of the original borrowing. 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES August 25. A number of changes in the subsidy program for wheat exports were announced. The Department of Agriculture term ina ted the arrangement whereby U. S. exporters were guaranteed a sliding scale of subsidies that paid the d i f fe rence between the domes- tic and the lower world price. August 29. The President signed an extension of the Export Administration Act of 1969, effec t ive through June 30, 1974. August 31. The Export Control Regulations were revised to place Hong Kong and Macao in Country Group V. This action represented a relaxation of the controls. September 1. Understandings were reached with Japan on various trade matters. Japan would accelerate cer- tain imports from the United States. September 6. The FDIP regulations were amended to clarify the July 4 amendment concerning the export credit exemption. The central principle was that U. S.- source funds, derived f rom a domestic bank or other financial institution but exempt f rom restraint under the VFCRP, could not be used to generate a negative transfer of capital under paragraph 3 1 2 ( b ). The amendment made clear that the principle applied in all cases where funds came f rom a U. S. financial insti- tution under a VFCRP exemption, even if they were flowed through a foreign bank or other foreign in ter- mediary. September 7. The Federal Reserve Board offered for public comment a proposal to amend Regulations D and M so as to reduce reserve requirements on mem- ber banks' Euro-currency borrowings f rom 20 per cent to 10 per cent and to eliminate the reserve-free bases available to banks subject to these requirements. The Federal Reserve Board noted that Euro-dollar borrowing by U. S. banks had declined from US$14,600 million on July 30, 1969 to US$1,262 million on August 30, 1972. (See also footnote 4.) September 11. The U .S. District Court of San Francisco ruled that the "reporting of domestic finan- cial transactions" requirements under P.L. 91-508 were unconstitutional. (On October 25, the Treasury announced for public comment certain proposed amend- ments to the implementing regulations.) September 18. A Presidential Determination was issued allowing the Export-Import Bank of the United States to guarantee, insure, extend credit, and parti- cipate in the extension of credit in connection with the purchase or lease of any product or service by, for use in, or for sale or lease to the U. S. S. R. September 18. Importers of overseas oil and oil products into Districts MV were allowed to draw on their calendar year 1973 allocations by up to 10 per cent of the amounts of their regular 1972 alloca- 510 tions. The allocation for imports of petroleum from Canada was increased. September 22. Subsidies on wheat exports were reduced to a nil rate. (The tobacco export program was terminated on November 29, effective with the 1973 crop. Subsidies on rice exports were suspended on December 21. On Janua ry 10 and 11, 1973 direct export subsidies for lard, broilers, and wheat flour were te rm ina ted. This brought on a situation where direct subsidies on the export of fa rm products were being paid only on peanu ts, the domestic production of which also received subsidies. On June 27, 1973 an embargo was imposed on the export of soybeans and cottonseeds and various meal and oil products of soybeans and cottonseeds. The embargo was replaced on Ju ly 2 by a system of validated licenses and partial fu l f i l lment of contracts outstanding on June 13. On July 5, additional products were placed under validated export licensing requ iremen ts; they included fishmeal, peanuts, edible fa ts such as lard and ta l low, and almost all edible oils.) September 29. The Treasury Department announced additional proposed regulations governing the organi- zation and operation of Domestic International Sales Corporations (DISCs). Under the proposals, agricul- tural products exported under the P.L. 480 program and the Commodity Credit Corporation Barter and Export Payment Programs would be ineligible for DISC treatment. October 14. A three-year maritime agreement with the U. S. S. R. was signed. October 18. Agreements with the U. S. S. R. were signed concerning trade, credit, and lend-lease debt matters. October 20. The Treasury Department announced that under existing regulations U. S. brokers would be able to deal in gold fu tures on the Winnipeg Com- modity Exchange, only for citizens and concerns hold- ing licenses to purchase gold and only to the extent consistent with their licenses. Any gold purchased for fu tu re delivery would count against the maximum gold inventory each licensee could legally hold. November 7. Effective immediately, the Federal Reserve Board adopted certain clarifying amendments to the VFCRP guidelines. These were essentially admin- istrative in nature and were designed to be neutral with respect to capital outflows authorized under the guide- lines. The revisions did not affect the foreign lending and investment ceilings of banks and other financial institutions. One amendment extended to nonbank domestic subsidiaries of bank holding companies treat- ment already afforded to domestic subsidiaries of Edge Act corporations with regard to offsetting foreign assets by foreign borrowings. Other amendments incorporated into the guidelines several technical and clarifying interpretations made by the Federal Reserve Board ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution since the November 1971 revision of the guidelines. November 8. Agreements on commercial and eco- nomic issues were signed with Poland. November 22. Transportation Order T-2 was amended to remove prohibitions on calls by U. S. carriers (a ir and surface) at mainland China ports. Calls by U. S. aircraft still required export licenses, however, for this destination as well as the U. S. S. R. and other Eastern European countries (except Romania and Yugoslavia). December 1. U. S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, which had previously been requested to con- t inue to act in accordance with the spirit of the VFCRP guidelines, were asked for the first time to submit monthly reports on their foreign asset positions. December 1. The VFCRP guidelines were amended with immediate effect to exempt from the ceilings for- eign assets acquired in connection with settlement of claims under insurance and guarantees of the U. S. Overseas Private Investment Corporation. December 6. The Treasury issued amendments to the An t idump ing Regulations. They were published on December 9 and would take effect on January 8, 1973. December 6. The record-keeping and reporting requirements under P.L. 91-508 were eased slightly. December 8. The Office of Emergency Preparedness announced that it would suspend for the first four months of 1973, a requirement that authorized imports UNITED STATES of No. 2 heating oil be manufac tured solely from crude oil from the Western Hemisphere. Furthermore, dur ing that period authorized importers would not be allowed to exchange their heating-oil import allocations for crude oil. December 13. The Temporary Regulations under the Interest Equalization Tax Act were amended. The modi- fications related to direct investment in certain qualified lend ing and financing corporations. December 15. The Department of the Interior announced that no substantive changes would be made in the program which exempts asphalt imports into Districts I-IV f rom quan t i ta t ive limitations under the Mandatory Oil Import Program. December 18. It was announced that the 1973 petro- leum import allocations would be at least as large as those for 1972. A limitation on imports of finished oil products from the Virgin Islands was removed. December 21. It was announced that quotas on meat imports for 1973 were being suspended. However, as required by law, the Secretary of Agriculture would review the situation every three months. December 30. The quota on imports of nonfat dry milk was temporarily increased. (On April 25, 1973 the President signed a proclamation temporarily amending the tariff schedules to provide for a 50 per cent increase in import quotas for cheese to be entered during the period ending July 31, 1973.) 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Exchange System * No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange trans- actions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i. e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial f ranc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and most other current transactions, as well as all current payments by or in favor of domes- tic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. All other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the BCEAO, take place through the financial f ranc market at freely fluctuating rates. The principal current payments and receipts channeled through the financial franc market are those relating to travel expenses, capital earnings, workers' remit- tances, family remittances, and study abroad. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is CFAF 255.785 = US$1. With the exception of those relating to gold, Upper Volta's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Upper Volta itself, are considered fore ign countries, and in principle finan- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the exchange rate of CFAF 1 — F 0.02 was ma in ta ined, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became CFAF 230.207 = US$1. The rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was also maintained on March 19, 1973 when new exchange rate arrangements between the French franc and certain other currencies came into effect. 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 512 cial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Bureau in the Directorate of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the Ministry of Finance and Com- merce, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Upper Volta for placement in foreign countries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control, except for imports and exports of gold and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000, has been delegated to the BCEAO and, w i th in limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized inter- mediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information neces- sary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transac t ions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Commerce at the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Import attesta- tions for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area; settlements with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs or French francs. Certain settlements with Ghana are made through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or Financial Ac- counts in Francs. All settlements with Portugal, Rho- desia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Financial Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or shipped from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may in prin- ciple be made free ly, although exceptionally special regulations may be issued. Imports from EEC coun- tries, with minor exceptions, are liberalized and require only an import attestation. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing. Imports from non- EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are admitted in accordance with an annual import pro- gram, determined each year by the Directorate of Com- merce. Under this program, global quotas are estab- lished up to which import licenses are issued for speci- fied commodities. Imports f rom Ghana are subject to special regulations. All impo rt t ransac t ions re la t ing to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documen ta ry credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodi- ties have a l ready been impor ted. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. All paymen ts to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Authorized banks and the Postal Admin- istration have been empowered to make transfers to fore ign countries f ree ly, on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a t ran s fe r. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted f ree ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under t en) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after re turn to Upper Volta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO bank- UPPER VOLTA notes, but if their destination is not to a member country of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out, in addi- tion to any means of payment established in their name abroad, foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000 or subject to the submission of appro- priation (if it was either declared upon entry or acquired by draw ing on a Financial Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency or by exchange of foreign travelers checks, e tc . ), any larger amount. They may also take out any fore ign means of payment other than banknotes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Financial Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, again subject to submission of documentation. Finally, they may take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made free ly but for statistical purposes certain agri- cultural products require a license from the Directorate of Commerce. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports to all other coun- tries are permitted free ly but some also require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or another Opera- tions Account coun try must be surrendered. All export transactions relating to fore ign countries must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment (engagement de change) and submit a customs certification (attestation d'exporta- tion). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings must not be received in or f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resident travelers must within eight days surrender to an authorized bank any fore ign means of p aym ent in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they br ing in. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are f ree of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inwa rd direct inves tment and all ou tward inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign securities in Upper Volta; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities in Upper Volta, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territo- ries (except the French Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, and those other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of f u n ds for deposit with foreign pri- vate persons and fore ign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Upper Volta require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.2 Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Upper Vo l ta 3 m u st be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the dec lara t ion during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or par t ial l iqu ida t ion of either type of investment also is subject to prior dec lara t ion to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Upper Volta investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere par- ticipation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or o f f e r ing for sale of fo re ign 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compa- nies in Upper Volta. 3 Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. 514 securities in Upper Volta requ ires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a gua ran tee f rom the Upper Volta Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, o f fe r ing for sale, or sale in Upper Volta has previously been au thor ized. Borrowing by residents f rom nonres iden ts requires pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom th is authoriza- t ion: (1) loans con s t i tu t ing a direct inve s tmen t, which are subject to pr ior dec la ra t ion, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indu s t r ial firms to finance transac t ions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports in to or exports f rom Upper Volta, or by in te rna t ional t r ad ing houses to f inance i n t e r n a t i o n al m e r ch an t ing transac- tions; (3) loans con trac ted by authorized bank s; (4) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount ou t s tand ing of these loans, in c lud ing the new borrow ing, does not exceed CFAF 100 m i l l ion for any one borrower, and p rov ided that the annual in terest rate does not exceed the no rmal m a rk et ra te. The repayment of loans not cons t i tu t ing a d irect inves tment requires the special au tho r iza t ion of the M in is ter if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special au tho r iza t ion. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control au thor iza t ion by the BCEAO, a c t ing on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The lend ing of CFA f r a n cs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years, howeve r, is freely perm i t ted. Ord inance No. 70-074/PRES/PL-TP of December 31, 1970, the Investment Code, provides p re fe ren t ial treat- ment for fo re ign investment in Upper Volta. Two pref- e ren t ial categories (A and B) are established, in accord- ance w i th which p re fe ren t ial t rea tment w i th respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 25 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negoti- ated between the investor and the Gove rnmen t, and the enterprise accorded such benef i ts must be of exceptional impor tance to the development of the coun t ry. Law No. 25761 /AN set up an assistance f u nd for new industries. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun t ry requ ire prior authorization by the External Finance Bureau in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and ( 3) imports and exports by trav- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution elers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs dec lara t ion. Changes during 1972 Ear ly in the year, the restriction on the allocation of exchange for tourist t r av el to fo re ign countries was removed. June 13. Following a s im i lar measure taken in France on May 5, 1972, Order No. 403 sh i f ted a number of cu r rent t ran sac t ions f rom the f inanc ial f r anc market to the official exchange ma rke t. The pr inc ipal current pay- men ts and receipts that con t inued to be channeled through the f inanc ial f r a nc market were travel expenses, capital earnings, workers' remittances, a l imony, salaries, wages, and pensions. June 27. Order No. 419 provided that authorized banks and the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion could free ly make t ran s fe rs to fore ign coun t r ies on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 per t r an s f e r. (C i rcu lar No. 28 of the same date specified the purposes for which this fac i l i ty could not be used.) June 27. Order No. 421 reduced the exchange allo- cation for tourist t ravel to fore ign countries f rom the equ iva lent of CFAF 175,000 a person a trip, available for any number of trips a year, to CFAF 175,000 a person a year, irrespective of the number of trips made in a year. This allocation and that for business travel UPPER VOLTA could hence fo r th be taken up also in the fo rm of trav- elers checks denominated in French francs. The basic allocation for business travel was ma in ta ined unchanged at the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Residents leaving for fore ign countries could henceforth make use of credit cards issued in Upper Volta; this use was limited to half the amount of the tourist or business travel allocation. The Order also specified the amounts in domestic and fore ign means of payment that nonresi- dent travelers could take out, either f ree ly or after sub- mission of appropriate documentation; the amount of foreign bankno tes they could take out freely was increased f rom the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 to CFAF 175,000 and that of BCEAO banknotes was set at CFAF 25,000. July 11. Circular No. 31 provided that domestic and fore ign securities accruing in Upper Volta to a non- resident by inheritance or donation could be placed in a foreign securities dossier. (For securities received by inheritance this had already been permitted.) July 11. Circular No. 32 increased f rom CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 500,000 the value beyond which exports to foreign countries required domicilation. July 26. Order No. 537 restored the exchange alloca- tion for tourist travel to foreign countries to the equiva- lent of CFAF 175,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960 a par value for the Uruguayan Peso was established by Uruguay with the Fund; how- ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market, consisting of a commercial market and finan- cial market. Payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, freight and insurance on imports and exports, and certain public sector exchange operations are settled in the commercial market, where the exchange rates are fixed (although adjusted from time to t ime), while all other permitted exchange transac- tions take place in the financial market, in which the exchange rates fluctuate. On December 29, 1972 the buying and selling rates in the commercial market were Ur$725 and Ur$732 per US$1, respectively, and those in the financial market were Ur$875 and Ur$880 per US$1, respectively. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to the commercial banks for imports, and the proceeds from exports (valued at the officially assessed price or aforo where applicable) must be surrendered to the monetary authorities.1 Commercial banks operate on their own account in the financial market, but are not permitted to exceed the ir overbought positions of February 29, 1972 and must surrender any excess exchange holdings to the Central Bank. The application of exchange taxes (detracciones or retenciones) to the proceeds from certain traditional exports and the payment of subsidies through tax credit certificates (reintegros) on proceeds from certain non- traditional exports give rise to various effective buying rates that d iffer from the commercial market buying rate. A tax of %o of 1 per cent is payable on all funds received f rom abroad. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, banking houses, and the monetary authorities. The latter collect import surcharges and export taxes, hold the special deposits required for certain imports, and receive export and import regis- trations. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system; these coun- tries are Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, and 1 On March 1, 1967, a new Central Bank was established but some operations are still being carr ied out on its behalf by the Bank of the Republic. The te rm "monetary a u t h o r i t i e s" as used here r e f e rs to both b anks taken toge ther. 516 Venezuela. Settlements with other countries are made in U. S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration prior to the placing of orders abroad. The registrations are gener- ally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Certain imports are effec- tively prohibited. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge (recargo), a special deposit (consignation), and /or prescribed terms of payment. Goods are classi- fied into nine categories; goods in one category bear no surcharge; goods in the other categories are subject to surcharges of 10, 30, 40, 60, 75, 90, 150, or 225 per cent, payable at the time of registration. Imports from LAFTA countries receive a fu ll or partial exemp- tion from the surcharges. Many imports are subject to consignaciones in Uruguayan pesos of a certain per- centage of the c.i.f. va lue; the deposit must be lodged with the mone tary authorities at the time of registra- tion and is refundable upon application after six months. For the period J anu a ry 1-March 31, 1973. imports by each importer in each surcharge category up to 58 per cent of the value of his import declara- tions (denuncias de importation) exempt from con- signaciones dur ing the period July 1 —December 31, 1971 are exempt f rom consignaciones. For imports in excess of the margin exempt from consignaciones, the required deposit rate varies depending on the surcharge category applicable as of July 21, 1971. For imports free of surcharge, or imports w i th surcharges as of that date of up to 50 per cent, the consignation is 450 per cent (315 per cent for imports f rom LAFTA countries; for imports with surcharges of more than 50 per cent and up to 110 per cent, the rate is 900 per cent (630 per cent for imports from LAFTA coun tr ies); and for imports with surcharges above 110 per cent, the rate is 1,200 per cent (840 per cent for imports from LAFTA coun tr ies). The regime of consignaciones applicable to capital goods is suspended, pending the issuance of new regulations govern ing the ir importation. Imports by the public sector that have been approved by the Central Bank and imports financed with external loans at maturities of at least 10 years are among those exempt from consignaciones. Most imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, to an additional import duty of 18 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payable upon customs clear- ance. The tax is not applied to imports originating in GATT or LAFTA countries, nor to imports of specified agencies and public institutions; in addition, an exemp- tion of 100 per cent, 85 per cent, or 40 per cent of the applicable tax is provided to specified imports. All impor ts va lued at over US$1.82 are subject to consular charges of Mo of 1 per cent of the peso amount result- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing from the conversion of the f.o.b. value at a rate of Ur$55 per US$1; the amount of the charges is pay- able in foreign exchange, at a rate of U r$l — US$2.10 (at a rate of Ur$l = US$1 for private imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetra- ethyl lead, at a rate of Ur$l = US$0.50 for imports by ANCAP (the state oil and alcohol monopoly) of the same commodities, and at1 a rate of U r$l = US$1.05 for certain other imports of ANCAP) .2 Consignaciones and surcharges in most cases are cal- culated either on assumed c.i.f. prices (aforos) estab- lished for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calcula- tion is based on an officially assessed price (also referred to as aforo), which usually is expressed in U. S. dollars per kilogram. Since April 27, 1971 import registrations have been subject to the following system. Sales of foreign exchange for imports are prohibited unless minimum financing requirements are fulfilled. At the end 1972, foreign exchange was made available by the banking system only for imports payable 180 days or more after the date of shipment. For imports for which financing under these conditions could not be obtained, the Cen- tral Bank could authorize the sale of exchange on a case-by-case basis. The sale of exchange was made at the earliest 15 days prior to the maturity date, and provided that the importer had deposited the peso equivalent of the transaction within 30 days after the date of approval of the application for customs clear- ance. In such cases, the sale was made at the rate of exchange in effect on the date of the deposit; for importers not making the deposit within the 30-day period, however, the sale of exchange was made at the rate in effect on the date of payment. In 1971 special arrangements were applied to certain other import payments and an exchange rate guarantee was given subject to the lodging of a peso deposit. Certain arrears have arisen in the implementation of these arrangements. Payments for Invisibles Freight and insurance on imports and exports are settled in the commercial market. All other payments for invisibles are settled at the financial rate. There are basic exchange allowances for certain current invis- ibles. Thus, for tourism and other travel, the alloca- tions (including fares) are: for travel to Argentina, $a 1,750 a person a t r i p ;3 to Brazil, Cr$ 1,200 a person a t r i p ;4 to Chile and Paraguay, either $a 1,750 or Cr$ 1,200 a person a trip; to other South American 2 These charges are equivalent to 11.55 per cent, 5.50 per cent, 2.75 per cent, and 5.775 per cent, respectively. 3 On January 26, 1973 the allowance for travel to Argentina was reduced to $a 1,000. 4 On January 26, 1973 reduced to Cr$600. to Brazil was the allowance for travel URUGUAY countries, US$25 a person a day, subject to a maximum of US$500 a person a trip; and to all other countries, US$30 a day, subject to a maximum of US$900 a person a trip. Exchange for family remittances is restricted to close relatives with permanent residence abroad and is subject to a maximum of US$150 a month for each recipient and remittor, no recipient or remitter being permitted to receive or effect a remit- tance more than once a month. The sale of foreign exchange for students on scholarships abroad is limited to an amount per month no greater than the difference between US$500 and the amount of the monthly schol- arship. For certain other invisibles, exchange is granted for the full amounts due. Payments for other specified types of invisibles may in principle be made freely through the financial market, subject to the regulations issued by the Central Bank. However, at the end of 1972 implementing regulations governing sales of exchange for many of these had not yet been issued. For such transactions (including profit and dividend remittances, royalties, commissions, and amortization and interest on private sector loans), the financial mar- ket remained effectively closed. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of the principal exports are subject to taxes (detracciones or retenciones), which are withheld by the monetary authorities on the basis of the aforo value of the commodity concerned. The tax is stipulated in pesos per un it of export commodity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of meat the stipulated maximum is 25 per cent while for wool the permitted limits are 2 per cent and 35 per cent of the aforo value. The exchange proceeds of traditional exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in full to the monetary authorities not later than 30 days after shipment has been authorized; the proceeds from exports of nontraditional products must be sur- rendered within 60 days if the sale is on a cash basis or within 210 days if the sale is made on credit. For most exports, including wool and meat, minimum f.o.b. values (m in imum surrender prices or aforos) expressed in U. S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types. Subsidies (reintegros) of up to 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value are granted on certain nontraditional exports. Exports of certain types of beef and dairy cows, wool ewes, specified minerals (including iron, copper, zinc, aluminum, and n icke l), and protein concentrates used for animal feed are prohibited. As at the end of 1972 exports of certain animal fats, animal bristle, greasy wool, and skirted greasy wool, were also tem- porarily prohibited. Exports of wheat, sorghum, corn, and sunflower seeds are from time to time permitted up to certain quantities. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold to the banking system. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward capital transfers by either residents or non- residents may be made freely through the bank ing system, and the exchange may be sold in the financial market anonymously; if the seller of foreign exchange identifies himself, however, he is entitled to repurchase in the financial market on any fu tu re date the same amount of foreign exchange. Outward capital t rans fe rs are subject to prior authorization; those of resident- owned capital are restricted. All obligations in excess of US$1,000 that are contracted abroad by the private sector must be declared within 30 days of the date of the contract. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad, provided that the transactions are registered. Gold may be exported only if accompanied by evidence of prior importation. Any private purchases abroad for nonindustrial use, how- ever, must be financed from the buyer's own exchange holdings. Imports and exports of gold for industrial use are settled through the commercial market. Changes during 1972 January 1. Presidential Decree No. 563 in troduced a new customs tariff based on the Brussels tariff nomen- clature. January 1. Decree No. 883 established the list of products subject to surcharges of up to 25 per cent which would benefit f rom a 100 per cent, 85 per cent, or 40 per cent exemption from the 18 per cent addi- tional import duty during January 1-June 30, 1972. January 1. Decree No. 884/971 continued until March 31, 1972 the suspension of the importation of goods subject to a surcharge of 50 per cent or more established by Central Bank Circular No. 339 of December 9, 1971. January 4. Decree No. 887 provided that henceforth the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance would be required for sales of exchange related to specified invisible transactions, including the follow- ing: family remittances; profits and dividends; royalties; headquarters' expenses; technical assistance; insurance and reinsurance; film rentals; and amortization and interest payments on external loans. All applications pending at the end of 1971 were to be submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for processing. January 11. Central Bank Circular No. 347 extended the exchange rate of Ur$248 per US$1 plus a premium 518 of Ur$120 per US$1 to 50 per cent of the foreign exchange proceeds from exports of blousse wool and certain other wool products. January 27. Circulars Nos. 350 and 351 extended the exchange rate of Ur$248 per US$1 plus a premium of Ur$120 per US$1 to the proceeds from exports of ground sunflower seed and horsemeat. February 10. Circular No. 354 provided that pay- ment of the commission of Ur$120 per US$1, where required on imports, must be effected at the time of deposit of local currency. March 2. The exchange rate structure was simplified by the introduction of a dual exchange market and the elimination of differential "commissions" on exchange transactions. Transactions relating to imports and exports as well as certain public sector transactions were effected in a commercial market, while all other permitted transactions took place in a financial market. The buying and selling rates in the commercial market were initially set at Ur$495 and Ur$500 per US$1, respectively; these rates would be adjusted from time to time, within the framework of a flexible exchange rate policy. The rate in the financial market would be allowed to fluctuate free ly; the opening rate was about Ur$750 per US$1. March 2. Decree No. 177 amended the surcharges applicable to imports, as follows: (1) the increase in surcharges to 300 per cent on imports previously sub- ject to surcharges of 50 per cent or more (established by Decree 803/971 of December 6, 1971) was rescinded; ( 2) the 5 per cent surcharge on goods not transported in Uruguayan flag vessels was abolished; ( 3) the surcharge rates of 25 per cent, 50 per cent, 80 per cent, 110 per cent, 170 per cent, and 250 per cent were reduced to 10 per cent, 30 per cent, 60 per cent, 90 per cent, 150 per cent, and 225 per cent, respectively; and (4) imports subject to surcharges of 60 per cent or more, (which, by virtue of a Decree of April 14, 1963 were subject to a minimum additional surcharge) became subject to a minimum additional surcharge of 10 per cent ( for imports of motor vehicle kits the minimum additional surcharge remained 15 per cen t). The same Decree extended the ban on imports of capital goods from March 31, 1972 to June 30, 1972, and established that the suspension through March 31, 1972 of imports with surcharges of 50 per cent or more (established by Decree No. 884/971) would now apply to imports with surcharges of 30 per cent or more. Imports for the installation of industrial plants authorized by the Ministry of Finance and con- sidered in the national interest were added to the exemptions from the ban on capital goods imports. March 2. Decree No. 178/972 provided that all exchange proceeds from exports of traditional and nontraditional products must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the banking system. Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from traditional exports had to be surrendered within 30 days af ter registration of the sailing permit. Those f rom nontraditional exports had to be surrendered within 60 days after receipt for sight transactions, and 210 days after shipment for transactions on credit terms. March 2. Circular No. 358 regulated transactions in the commercial market. In order to purchase foreign exchange at the rate of exchange prevailing on the day of deposit of the peso equivalent, importers had to deposit the pesos when applying for customs clearance. March 2. Circular No. 359 regu la ted transactions in the financial market. All nontrade transactions were channeled through this market, in which the rate of exchange would be determined by supply and demand. The amount of exchange sales permitted and the con- ditions of sale for specified types of transactions would be announced in due course by the Central Bank. Holders of foreign exchange could sell it freely in the financial market through the banking system without disclosing their identity; however, identified sellers would have the right to repurchase an equivalent amount of fore ign exchange on any f u t u re date. March 2. Circular No. 361 permitted sales of exchange for specified transactions in the financial mar- ket. New allowances for travel and for family and student remittances were fixed. For travel, the allow- ances (including fares) were as follows: for Argen- tina, 1,750 Argentine pesos a trip; for Brazil, 1,200 cruzeiros a trip; for Chile and Paraguay, 1,750 Argen- tine pesos or 1,200 Brazilian cruzeiros a trip; for other South American countries, US$25 a day, up to US$500 a person a trip; and for all other countries, US$30 a day, up to US$900 a person a trip. For family remit- tances, the limit was US$150 a month for each recip- ient and remittor, and no recipient or remittor was permitted to receive or effect a remittance more than once a month. For students on scholarships abroad, allocations were limited to a monthly amount not exceeding the difference between US$500 and the amount of the scholarship. Rules were also announced for sales of exchange relating to rentals, retirement payments, pensions, banks' own expenditures abroad, insurance and reinsur- ance, consular fees, and other transactions (Circular Nos. 361 ( a ), ( b ), and ( c ) ). March 2. Decree No. 180 suspended the issuance of tax credit certificates for nontraditional exports. March 2. Decree No. 181 revoked Decrees Nos. 805 and 887 which required the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the sale of foreign exchange for travel and for other specified current invisibles. The Decree also rescinded the 20 per cent surcharge on the value of tickets for foreign travel (introduced by Decree 830 of December 10, 1971). March 2. Decree No. 182 imposed an additional tax URUGUAY (retention adicional) on proceeds f rom exports of greasy wool, washed wool, combed wool, and blousse wool. March 2. Decree No. 183 modified the taxes appli- cable to exports of beef. March 3. Decrees Nos. 188 and 189 suspended exports of linseed oil and hides and skins for a period of 20 days. March 10. Decree No. 200 suspended exports of greasy wool, skirted greasy wool, and washed wool, and required a declaration of existing stocks. March 15. Decree No. 196 revoked Decree No. 800 of December 6, 1971 which established temporary addi- tional surcharges for all imports. March 17. Circular No. 368 extended the applica- tion of the system of consignaciones (Circular No. 344 of December 29, 1971) un t il June 30, 1972 with the following amendments: ( 1) level of imports exempt f rom consignaciones du r ing the six-month period through June 30, 1972 could not exceed 116 per cent of the same imports made during the second half of 1971; (2) imports exempted in the national interest f rom customs duties, surcharges, and other import taxes, and imports from LAFTA countries, imports of ju te fabrics, and imports of approved capital goods were exempt from consignaciones up to 50 per cent of the amount of the same goods that could be imported without consignaciones dur ing the second half of 1971; ( 3) the exemption for yerba mate was revoked. April 3. Decree No. 237 extended the ban on the importation of goods with a surcharge of 30 per cent or more to April 30, 1972. April 4. Decree No. 218 exempted the following f rom customs duties and other import taxes until Sep- tember 30, 1972; raw sugar, raw coffee beans, hessian, road-building machinery, pharmaceuticals, and raw materials for pharmaceutical industries. Yerba mate (semiprecessed) was exempted from 50 per cent of the import taxes. (The decree was applicable only insofar as the goods mentioned were subject to a sur- charge of 10 per cent or less.) April 10. The buying and selling rates in the com- mercial market were changed from Ur$495 and Ur$500 per US$1, to Ur$519 and Ur$524 per US$1, respectively. April 27. Decree No. 302 exempted imports of speci- fied raw materials during 1972 by ANCAP (the state oil and alcohol monopo ly) f rom the 18 per cent additional import tax and consignaciones. Included were crude petroleum and by-products and lubricating oils and greases. For the assessment of consular charges, ANCAP imports of these products would be converted to pesos at the exchange rate of Ur$55 per US$1. The Decree also fixed a rate of U r$l = US$0.50 for the calculation of the consular charges to be paid on imports of crude petroleum and by-products, lead tetra- 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY ethyl, and alcohol and a rate of Ur$l = US$1.05 for the other products specified. April 28. Circular No. 375 authorized the banks to sell foreign exchange in the financial market for pay- ments of insurance premiums, but only for policies contracted with specified companies. May 9. The buying and selling rates in the com- mercial market were changed to Ur$539 and Ur$544 per US$ 1, respectively. May 11. Decree No. 344 reintroduced the system of tax credit certificates (reintegros), with retroactive effect from March 2, 1972. The subsidies were reduced, however, from 6, 10, 15, 20, 22, 25, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, and 35 per cent to 0, 0, 1, 5, 7, 9, 11, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 17 per cent, respectively. The new scale was applicable through June 30, 1972. (For exports in the second half of 1972 exporters had the option of choosing either the scale of subsidies established by this decree or the new scale to be established for the period after July 1, 1972.) In addition to the above scale, additional subsidies were established on the increase in each exporter's exports during 1972 over those in 1971. For increases of 100 per cent or more, the additional subsidy was fixed at 30 per cent; for increases of 50-100 per cent, at 25 per cent; for increases of 25-50 per cent, at 10 per cent; and for increases of 15-25 per cent, at 5 per cent. (These additional subsidies were not imple- mented.) May 12. Circular No. 361 (d) permitted sales of exchange in the financial market for operations relating to export transactions. Sales of exchange for commis- sions related to export sales abroad were limited to 2 per cent of the f.o.b. value for traditional exports, and to 5 per cent of the f.o.b. value for nontraditional exports. May 25. Circular 380 permitted exporters to use any excess of the actual value of wool exports over the aforo value to pay abroad commissions related to those exports of up to 2 per cent of the f.o.b. value and 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. May 25. Circular No. 381 provided that imports of books required the prior authorization of the Central Bank. Within 20 days of authorization, the importer was required to deposit the local currency equivalent with the Central Bank. The Central Bank undertook to provide the foreign exchange not less than 150 days from the date of authorization (except for books imported on cons ignmen t). The importer bore the exchange risk. June 22. Decree No. 440/972 extended un t il the end of 1972 the application of Decrees Nos. 306 and 307 of June 25, 1970, and of Decree No. 291 of May 21, 1971. Under these decrees, imports of machinery and equipment for use in the footwear industry, the manu- facture of woolen fabrics, and the extraction and finish- ing of marble and granite products were exempt from 520 import duties, surcharges, consular fees, consignaciones, and other import taxes, provided that the imports were financed with external credit of at least three years' ma tu r i ty; and that the impo r t ing firm under took to export within a period of three years manufac tured products at least equal in value to the c.i.f. value of the duty-free imports. June 29. Decree No. 452 established the list of prod- ucts subject to surcharges of up to 10 per cent which would in the second half of 1972 obtain a 100 per cent, 85 per cent, or 40 per cent exemption from the 18 per cent additional import duty. June 29. Decree No. 453 extended the ban on the importation of capital goods to July 31, 1972. June 30. The buy ing and selling rates in the com- mercial market were changed to Ur$566 and Ur$572 per US$1, respectively. July 5. Circular No. 385 clarified the rules estab- lished by Decree No. 178 of March 3, 1972 for the surrender of proceeds f rom non t rad i t ional exports. The proceeds had to be surrendered no later than 60 days af ter receipt for exports on sight basis, or within 210 days f rom the date of shipment for exports on credit terms. The rate of exchange prevailing on the date the exporter received the proceeds would be applied to amounts surrendered w i th in these time limits; the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of expiry of the surrender period would be applied to proceeds sur- rendered af ter its expiry, without prejudice to the pre- vailing sanctions for late surrender. July 7. Decree No. 484/972 modified the system of tax credit certificates. The add i t ional subsidies on the increment in exports in 1972 over 1971 were abolished, wh i le the scale of subsidies on the va lue of exports was temporar i ly continued as set out in Decree No. 344. It was announced that manu fac tu red products containing more than 50 per cent raw ma ter ia ls produced nation- a l ly would be en t i t led to add i t ional subsidies. July 7. Decree No. 485 suspended until the end of the year the surcharge of 30 per cent on imports of ju te fabrics, for a quan t i ty of 2,500 tons originating in non-LAFTA countries. The Decree also exempted po lyf ines for the manu fac tu re of synthetic ju te fabrics f rom customs duties, surcharges, and other import taxes, provided the goods were shipped before the end of the year. July 20. Decree No. 504 added capital goods to the list of goods fu l ly exempt f rom the additional 18 per cent import tax. July 24. Circular No. 388 was issued governing new swap arrangemen ts and the renewal of existing ones. For swaps with a ma tu r i ty of 18 months and for at least US$50,000, a rate of Ur$370 per US$1 was set, with interest of 2 per cent charged on the pesos obtained, and for swaps with a m a tu r i ty of 180 days ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (extendable for further 90-day periods) and for at least US$200,000, a rate of Ur$450 per US$1, with interest ranging from 1 per cent to 3 per cent charged on the pesos. July 24. Circular No. 389 permitted the Bank of the Republic to effect sales of exchange to the public sector at the financial market rate for transactions not eligible for the commercial market. Circular No. 390 specified the public sector transactions which would be eligible for the commercial market. These included subscrip- tions to international organizations; amortization and interest on the external public debt; interest payments in foreign exchange on suppliers' credits or loans from banks; and transactions specially authorized by the Central Bank. July 27. Decree No. 523 (as amended by Decree No. 704) established that with effect from July 1, 1973 customs duties on goods subject to ad valorem duties but for which no established c.i.f. prices (aforos) had been set, would be calculated on the basis of the normal c.i.f. price as determined by the Customs. August 1. The validity of the ban on imports of capital goods expired. No new regulations concerning capital goods imports were promulgated, however, so that these remained suspended. August 3. Decree No. 548 consolidated the system of tax credit certificates. Subsequent implementing reso- lutions established a new scale of subsidies on nontradi- tional exports (ranging from 8 per cent to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue ). Henceforth the subsidies would be established for three-year periods; for certain com- modities the subsidy rate would be reduced progres- sively. August 8. Circular No. 397 extended the system of consignaciones until September 30, 1972, with the fol- lowing amendments: (1) the level of imports exempt from consignaciones in the nine-month period ending September 30, 1972 could not exceed 174 per cent of imports of the same goods during the second half of 1971; (2) imports exempted f rom customs duties, sur- charges, and other import taxes in the national interest, imports from LAFTA countries, import of ju te fabrics, and imports of approved capital goods were exempt f rom consignaciones up to 75 per cent of the amount of the same goods that could be imported without con- signaciones during the second half of 1971; (3) any exemptions for imports of yerba mate would henceforth be regulated by the Executive and implemented by the Central Bank; and (4) the regime of Circular 344 for consignaciones on capital goods was temporarily suspended. August 15. The buying and selling rates in the com- mercial market were changed to Ur$592 and Ur$598 per US$1, respectively. August 17. Decree No. 584 established regulations for imports of yerba mate during the second half of 1972. URUGUAY August 17. Decree No. 586 suspended for a period of two years the import duties, surcharges, and other import taxes on machinery for the footwear industry. August 18. Circular No. 361 (f) authorized banking establishments to sell foreign exchange in the financial market for transactions in the category "sales author- ized expressly by a resolution of the Central Bank," provided that prior approval from the Central Bank was obtained for each transaction. August 21. Circulars Nos. 361 (h) and 399 author- ized banks to sell exchange in the financial market for royalties related to patents and trademarks and for technical assistance, provided that the remittances related to services performed for export industries. August 21. Circular No. 400 authorized banks to sell exchange in the commercial market for transactions in the category "special authorizations by the Central Bank," provided that prior approval from the Central Bank was obtained for each transaction. August 23. Circular No. 361 (g) authorized banks to sell foreign exchange in the financial market for pay- ment of artists' rights for phonograph records. August 23. Circular No. 394 announced a scheme for compensating interest to be paid by the Central Bank to banks for the delayed availability of foreign exchange for import payments regulated by Circular No. 248 of April 27, 1971. It was also announced that banking institutions must collect the costs of importa- tion from importers in local currency, and that no sales of exchange to cover such costs (including inter- est, commissions, etc.) would be permitted. September 7. Decree No. 613 extended the exemp- tions from import taxation for machinery and spare parts for the tobacco industry until January 25, 1973. September 8. The buying and selling rates in the commercial market were changed to Ur$621 and Ur$627 per US$1, respectively. September 21. Decree No. 632 established a tax of 1 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports of cotton fiber. September 21. Decree No. 637 suspended until September 20, 1973 all import taxes on machinery and equipment for the fru it and vegetable processing industry. September 25. The buying and selling rates in the commercial market were changed to Ur$641 and Ur$647 per US$1, respectively. October 11. Decree No. 670 extended until March 31, 1973 the exemptions from import taxation for certain goods subject to a surcharge of 10 per cent or less. October 25. Circular No. 407 extended the system of consignaciones until the end of the year, with the following amendments: (1) the level of imports exempt f rom consignaciones in the 12-month period ending December 31, 1972 could not exceed 232 per cent of the same imports made during the second half of 1971; and (2) imports exempted from customs duties, surcharges, and other import taxes in the national 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY interest, imports from LAFTA countries, imports of ju te fabrics, and imports of approved capital goods were exempt from consignaciones up to 100 per cent of the amount of the same goods that could be imported without consignaciones in the second half of 1971. November 1. The buy ing and selling rates in the com- mercial market were changed to Ur$673 and Ur$680 per US$ 1, respectively. November 1. Decree No. 707 prohibited the export of greasy wool and skirted greasy wool. November 10. Central Bank Circular No. 409 and Communication No. 72 /54 announced a new scheme for the consolidation of commercial arrears on imports governed by Circulars Nos. 252, 254, 260, 295, 332, 265, 289, and 318. Certain import payments due to mature in the period through December 31, 1973 were also covered by the announcement. Upon receipt from the banks and firms involved in the original importa- tion of the goods of a guarantee that the payment was still pending, the Central Bank undertook to issue negotiable bonds in settlement of the outstanding arrears. The bonds would be denominated in the for- eign currency of the original transaction and would be issued in two series. The first would be to cover obliga- tions arising from import operations under Circulars Nos. 252, 254, 260, 265, and 289 and the second to settle other obligations covered by Circular No. 409. The bonds would bear interest at 7.5 per cent a year, payable f rom November 1, 1972 for bonds in the first series and from April 1, 1973 for bonds in the second series. Remittances through the financial market of any interest payments due for periods prior to November 1, 1972 and April 1, 1973, respectively, would be regulated by the Central Bank. The bonds would be issued in accordance with a schedule of amortization payable on a rising scale in 16 quarterly installments f rom December 31, 1973 to September 30, 1977. Circular No. 409 also required importers to deposit w i th in a specified time the local currency equivalent of the obligations concerned, if these deposits had not already been made, and established the rates of exchange at which such deposits would be accepted. November 10. Circular No. 410 revoked Circular No. 388 and established new rules for swaps. The main change related to interest payments. November 13. Circular No. 411 provided that banks would, upon application, be permitted to purchase and sell foreign exchange for travel purposes outside normal work ing hours and on weekends. Nonbanking firms could be permitted, upon application, to engage in sales and purchases of foreign exchange for these purposes. November 23. Decree No. 752 extended until March 31, 1973 the suspension of the 30 per cent sur- charge on imports of ju te fabrics from non-LAFTA countries. November 29. The buying and selling rates in the commercial market were changed to Ur$698 and Ur$705 per US$1, respectively. December 19. The buying and selling rates in the commercial market were changed to Ur$725 and Ur$732 per US$1, respectively. December 21. Decree No. 817 extended for another year the exemption from the 18 per cent additional duty on imports of plant, machinery, and equipment for the meat industry. December 29. Decree No. 834 exempted ANCAP from payment of import duties, surcharges, and other import taxes on specified raw materials imported in 1973. The Decree also extended to 1973 imports the provisions of Decree No. 302 concerning consular charges. 522 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System * The par va lue is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Venezuelan Bolivar. No transac t ions take place at the par va lue. Exchange t ransac t ions take place at the fol- lowing rates.1 The Cen tral Bank of Venezuela purchases proceeds of the pe tro leum and iron ore expor t ing com- panies at the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1. Any proceeds from exports of cacao and coffee that are offered for sale to the Cen tral Bank must be purchased by it at the rate of Bs 4.385 per US$1. The Central Banks sells exchange to the Gove rnment and its agencies and to the commercial banks (for sales to the public only) at Bs 4.385 per US$1.2 The commercial banks purchase fo re ign exchange f rom the pub l ic at rates close to Bs 4.38 per US$1. Commercial banks must sell exchange to the pub l ic at Bs 4.40 per US$ 1 for all transactions; fore ign banks may only sell fo re ign exchange that has not been obtained from the Central Bank. Some foreign exchange is also negotiated on the two stock exchanges, where buy ing and selling rates usua l ly are slightly below B s4 .40 per US$1. Exchange houses are permitted to deal on ly in bankno tes, coins, and travelers checks. The Central Bank offers swap facilities under which it buys U. S. dollars at Bs 4.37 and resells at Bs 4.40 af ter 90 or 180 days. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when requ ired, are generally issued by the M in i s t ry of Development or the M in is try of Ag r icu l tu re and Livestock, depend ing on the commod- ity. Under the terms of an agreement between the Gove rnment and the Cen tral Bank, the latter has the respons ib i l i ty of en su r ing that a subsidy is applied to imports of wheat for human consumption and to cer- t a in expor ts of coffee and cacao. Prescription of Currency Payments between Venezuela and Argen t ina, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Cen tral Bank of Venezuela and the cen tral banks of the countries concerned. Proceeds f rom exports of pe tro leum and petroleum derivatives must not be received through these accounts. Otherwise, no prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Venezuela with effect f rom February 19 changed the buying rate of Bs 4.30 per U. S. dollar to Bs 4.20 and that of Bs 4.385 to Bs 4.285. The Central Bank's sales of foreign ex- change sales to the commercial banks hencefor th took place at Bs 4.285, and those of the banks to their customers at Bs 4.30 per US$1. 1 The exchange rates given (except those for the Central Bank's swap transactions) are those applicable to sight draf ts on New York. 2 The Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange to the public but does sell minor amounts to its staff and certain government officials, at the Bs 4.40 rate, for travel expenses and personal remit- tances. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; these include fu l ly assem- bled automobiles, certain textiles, coffee, c i trus f ru i t, bananas, pineapples, melons, salt, opium, cigarette pape r, na tu ral pearls, and matches. In add i t ion, many other commodities requ ire import licenses; quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ions applicable irrespective of origin are main- tained on these items for protective purposes. Licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia and South A f r ica. Import licenses for some products are issued on the cond i t ion that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quantity imported (contingentamiento). Imports of wheat for human consumption receive a subsidy of 25.55 per cent of the f .o .b. value, calculated at Bs 4.40 per US$1; they requ ire an import license, and the Central Bank's Import Subsidy Office establishes eligibility for the subsidy. All other commodities are free from import licensing. Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Import paymen ts may be made free ly. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles may be made freely; private sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made f rom commercial banks or exchange houses. Resident and nonresident travelers must on departure pay a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; exemptions exist for children under seven, fore ign tourists, Vene- zuelan and fore ign diplomats, and personnel of inter- na t ional organizations. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain furs and hides, scrap metals, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the exportation of many other commodi- ties, except petroleum. Most export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee and cacao are granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. Exports of products containing subsidized imported wheat are subject to special arrangements to ensure that the sub- sidy received is repaid. The export of gold and precious stones requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum and iron ore exporting com- panies must surrender to the Central Bank export pro- ceeds, to the extent of their local currency requirements (including taxes), at a rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1. Otherwise, there are no surrender requirements for export proceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may (but need not) sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.385 per US$1; they may receive an export subsidy calculated to pre- 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA vent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Vene- zuelan ports from falling below specified minimum amounts regardless of external prices for these prod- ucts. Eligibility for this subsidy is maintained also if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. The mini- mum prices guaranteed by the Government range from Bs 175.00 to Bs 185.44 a quintal for coffee, and are Bs 121 or Bs 150 a quintal for cacao. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited, as are exports of petroleum and military equipment to mainland China and North Korea. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely disposa- ble. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coins other than gold coins. The importation of Venezuelan gold coins is reserved for the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers are permitted freely. Brokerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. There is no registration procedure for incoming capital. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or companies that are resi- dent or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law of December 30, 1970 authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. This law also provides special regulations for foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur- poses. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated between licensed importers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses from the Ministry of Finance and in certain cases also from the Ministry of Development, while exports are licensed by the Ministry of Finance only. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Ministry of Development as an industrial user, but in practice imports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coins and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs duty; all other gold imports are subject to duty at varying rates. All imports of nonmonetary gold are subject to consu- lar duties ranging from 2 per cent to 3% per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1972 January 1. Venezuela gave notice of termination of the reciprocal trade agreement with the United States. The agreement partially expired on June 30. January 3. By virtue of Joint Resolution No. 7 of the Ministries of Development and Finance, import licenses became required for imports from all sources of those commodities in List I of the U. S. trade agree- ment that previously were exempt f rom licensing. July 1. The import licensing requirements imposed on January 3 were removed. In addition, certain com- modities subject to import license prior to January 3 were exempted from licensing. 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The exchange rate structure is based on an official rate and a special rate, both of which may be adjusted from time to time; on Decem- ber 31, 1972 they stood at VN$465 and VN$320, respectively, per US$1. Different effective exchange rates arise from the application of certain subsidies, equalization taxes (taxes de perequation), and commis- sions. Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in forward buying or selling of foreign exchange in the domestic or foreign exchange markets only in relation to payments for imports and only in certain specified currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Viet-Nam (Directorate-General of Exchange). Most remittances must have the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange; the authority to approve some payments for private invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Imports financed by U. S. aid require licenses and are subject to special contracts or procurement procedures. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy (Directorate of Commercial A id) and are countersigned by the National Bank (Directorate of Foreign A id ). Licenses are gen- erally not required for imports financed with Viet- Nam's own exchange. Prescription of Currency With the exception of import payments under the French credit insurance program, all payments must be made in U. S. dollars. Proceeds from exports to France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom must be received in the currency of the country concerned. Other receipts may be accepted either in a currency quoted by the National Bank (deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, or pounds sterling) or in any other convertible currency, provided that prior to repatriation such other cur- rencies are converted into a currency quoted by the National Bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Nonresident Accounts in Free Piastres may be freely credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of convertible exchange and may be freely debited for most paymen ts to residents. A category of nonresident accounts, Capital Accounts, covers piastres owned by nonresident foreigners that may not be transferred abroad. Balances in Capital Accounts may be used for investment. Their use is subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Investments financed from Capital Accounts generally are not covered by the Investment Law of 1963 (see section on Capital, be low), and proceeds from the liquidation of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts unless the Ministry of National Economy has declared them eligible for the privileges of the law. Balances in Capital Accounts are negoti- able between nonresident foreigners. Imports and Import Payments The bulk of imports comes under one of three head- ings: ( 1) imports financed with funds from the U .S. Agency for International Development (A ID ); (2) imports financed from Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country-financed imports," i.e., imports financed with French, German, and Japanese loans, or French export credit. In principle, products imported under the AID programs are not included among imports that are financed otherwise. However, when AID financing proves insufficient for obtaining imports of essential products, such imports may be financed from Viet-Nam's official exchange reserves. Many imports are prohibited. Except for those commodities also financed by the U. S. AID programs and prohibited commodities, all imports financed with Viet-Nam's own exchange are effected through the "Import Credit" procedure, under which they are exempt from license. All other imports require licenses. Certain imports are subject to advance deposits and/or equalization taxes. All imports of textile piece goods are subject to an equalization tax of VN$200 per US$1. Some imports are permitted without foreign exchange (sans devises); these include imports by end-users with branches abroad, gifts and samples, spare parts for international airlines, and other small imports, when the Directorate-General of Exchange is satisfied that the foreign exchange privately held by the importer has not been obtained illegally. Import licenses generally are valid for all noncom- munist countries; the main exception is that goods financed by U .S. aid must originate in "PD31" coun- tries (the Republic of China, India, the Republic of Korea, Morocco, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, and Tunisia) or the United States. All imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange and valued at US$500 or over require a let- ter of credit. In addition to the advance deposit require- ments mentioned above, commercial banks may require margin deposits on the opening of import letters of credit according to the standing of the importer and 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM the market situation for the commodity concerned. Importers are required to pay the import value minus VN$100 per US$1 at the time of the allocation of the import credit when importing under the "Import Credit" procedure; the balance must then be paid upon utiliza- tion of the letter of credit. Some essential commodities are exempt from margin deposit requirements; these include flour, milk, sugar, newsprint, petroleum prod- ucts, fertilizers, agricultural implements, and raw materials and industrial equipment imported by end- users. Some imports under suppliers' credits are subject to a different type of deposit (consignation). Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require approval by the Directorate-General of Exchange. Students approved by a special commission are granted US$80 a month for study in the Republic of China or Hong Kong and US$150 a month for study elsewhere; they are also granted allocations for tuition and medical fees and for extraordinary expenses. Foreign specialists employed in Viet-Nam may transfer up to 50 per cent of their salary every month, but not more than US$600 a month. In principle, foreign firms are generally permitted to transfer up to 70 per cent of their net annual profit after tax, after examination of their accounts and after deduction of any losses in previous years. Profit trans- fers by foreign enterprises established or expanded between February 14, 1963 and June 2, 1972 under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law are governed by the provisions of that law unless they meet the require- ments of the "Foreign Exchange Working Capital System" (see section on Capital, be low). Although dividends declared in Viet-Nam and accruing to non- residents and foreign residents may in principle be transferred abroad, under the terms of the 1963 Invest- ment Law transfers of profits and dividends are limited to 20 per cent annually of the declared capital. Net annual profits after tax from projects covered by the new Investment Law, Law No. 4/72, may be trans- ferred without limit. Each resident authorized to travel abroad is entitled to purchase the following amounts of foreign exchange at the official rate: travelers to the Khmer Republic and Laos US$30 a day, with a maximum of US$300 a person a trip, and travelers to other countries US$40 a day, with a maximum of US$2,400 a person a trip. The allocations mentioned may be supplemented by the equivalent of US$40 in foreign banknotes. Travelers are permitted to take with them up to VN$5,000 in Vietnamese banknotes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign travelers may be re-exported when a declaration is made to the customs and evidence is given that any utilized exchange has been sold to an authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require a license; they must 526 be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, however, which is responsible for the repatriation of the foreign exchange. All exports to communist coun- tries, exports to any destination of manufactured or semimanufactured products originally imported into Viet-Nam, gold, rice, rice products, and certain other items are prohibited; the prohibition does not apply to imported goods that have been processed in Viet-Nam, provided that the va lue added corresponds to, or exceeds, a specified proportion of the export price. Exporters are allowed to retain in EFAC (Exporta- tions, Frais Accessories) accounts 10 per cent of their total export proceeds for the settlement of incidental expenses related to the export transaction. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate. Foreign military personnel and official U. S. civilian personnel serving in Viet-Nam are paid in scrip ("mili- tary payment certificates" or MPCs) which can be exchanged for piastres at the official rate only through special official channels (military bank ing facilities). They are not permitted to possess foreign banknotes or travelers checks in Viet-Nam, but there are military banking facilities under which eligible foreign persons may open accounts in piastres, MPCs, or U.S. dollars at two U. S. banks in Saigon. Travelers entering Viet-Nam may bring in any amount of foreign exchange, but it must be declared to the customs on entry. A traveler may bring in Viet- namese banknotes up to a total of VN$5,000. Foreign military and civilian personnel (government officials) must surrender on arrival any foreign banknotes they bring into Viet-Nam. Capital Under general regulations, capital may be imported without formalities, but foreign investors must register their capital with the Vietnamese authorities and agree on the terms of the investment in order to be able to repatriate their capital and to t rans fer profits. Under the Investment Law of 1963, special benefits could be accorded to new foreign investments in the sectors of the economy that are given high priority. The mini- mum investment in agriculture was established at VN$0.5 million, and in industry at VN$1 million. Imports of equipment and spare parts needed by foreign undertakings covered by the law were exempt from customs duties. Foreign technicians employed by these enterprises were exempt from income tax for 2 years. Foreign investments were free of taxes on profit, securities, and real estate for specified periods of time. The new investments were not subject to any national- ization measures for the first 15 years from the date of the written authorization granted to the investor; they were accorded the same treatment as that applicable to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution domesic investments. The law provided for the transfer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent of the invested capital, and for the repatriation of the original investment after 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent if the capital was newly imported (a f ter 20 years for investment of foreign-owned capital previously held in V ie t-Nam). A new Investment Law promulgated on June 2, 1972 has superseded the Investment Law of 1963. The pro- visions of the 1963 law, however, are still applicable to the enterprises which were governed by them. Under the new law, which mainly adds new fiscal benefits to the provisions of the 1963 law, fiscal incentives are granted to new investments whether financed in Viet- namese currency or in foreign exchange brought from abroad, provided that (a) the investments are made in a "priority sector" and (b) that the initial capital is over VN$10 million in the primary sector and over VN$20 million in the secondary and tertiary sectors. Besides fiscal exemptions the foreign enterprises enjoy- ing the benefits of the law are authorized (a) to trans- fer abroad total net annual profits and (b) to repatriate after five years of operation the capital invested, in annual installments of 20 per cent. Investments not covered by either Investment Law nor by the regime described in the following paragraph are subject to the regulations and case-to-case decisions of the Directorate-General of Exchange, which nor- Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1972) VIET-NAM mally authorizes the transfer of up to 70 per cent of net annual profits after taxes but does not permit dis- investment; such investments are not eligible for the above-mentioned tax exemptions. Under a "Foreign Exchange Working Capital Sys- tem," foreign capital imported in the fo rm of direct investment or as medium-term and long-term credit in cash or in kind may be registered with the National Bank and treated as follows. Capital must be brought from abroad and sold through authorized banks, where it is credited to a "Foreign Exchange Working Account." Profits, dividends, and interest on such capital may be transferred annually up to a maximum of 20 per cent of the registered amount and repatriation may be made up to an annual maximum of 25 per cent of the regis- tered capital. Imports and exports of capital normally are made at the official rate. Gold Within Viet-Nam, the holding of gold and all trans- actions in gold are subject to licensing, but the con- trols are not rigidly enforced and unlicensed holdings of gold by individuals are tolerated. Only the National Bank is empowered to import and export gold. All domestic transactions in gold are subject to a luxury tax of 10 per cent on the sale value or the manufacturing cost. The export of gold by physical or juridical per- (piastres per U. S. dollar) Buying 460.35 (Official Rate of VN$465 minus 1% Commission) All foreign exchange receipts other than export proceeds. 544.50 (Export Rate plus Subsidy of VN$50 less 1% Commission)2 Proceeds from traditional exports. 569.25 (Export Rate of VN$500 plus Subsidies less 1% Commission)2 Proceeds from exports of iron bars, glass tubes, and "new exports." 1 Many imports are in addition subject to equilization taxes ranging from VN$75 to VN$200 per US$1. 2 The export rate results f rom a special subsidy which is added to the official rate to give a rate of VN$500 per US$1. 323.20 398.95 Selling (Special Rate of VN$320 plus 1% Com- mission)1 Imports under the Commercial Import Program financed by U. S. AID, when originating in the United States. Cotton and wheat under U. S. P. L. 480. (Special Rate of VN$320 plus Equaliza- tion Tax of VN$75 plus 1% Commis- sion ) * Offshore procurement financed by U. S. AID (goods originating in "PD31" countries). 469.65 (Official Rate of VN$465 plus 1% Com- mission)1 Imports under U. S. P. L. 480 other than cotton and wheat. Imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. All other outward pay- ments. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM sons other than the National Bank is prohibited. The import of gold by physical or juridical persons other than the National Bank is also prohibited, with the fol- lowing exceptions: (1) Vietnamese settled in Laos may, when returning to Viet-Nam, bring in up to 13 taels 3 of gold in the form of jewelry; (2) residents may import gold without allocation of foreign exchange, pro- vided that they have an import license and pay a cus- toms duty of 130 per cent and an equalization tax of VN$100 per US$1; (3) nonresidents may, without allocation of foreign exchange, bring into Viet-Nam any quantity of gold, provided that its entry is declared and that it is deposited in safe custody with an author- ized bank; the utilization of such gold is subject to prior authorization by the Directorate-General of Exchange, and if it is sold in Viet-Nam the sales proceeds must be credited to a Capital Account. Changes during 1972 February 12. The first parallel market rate was changed from VN$275 to VN$280 per US$1 and the second parallel market rate f rom VN$400 to VN$405 per US$1. The third parallel market rate remained unchanged at VN$410 per US$1. March 2. Communique No. 23 /BKT established an advance deposit of VN$70 per US$1 on specified aid commodities when imported under the Commercial Import Program (CIP). March 3. Notices Nos. 90 and 91 were issued for the implementation of Joint Decision No. 498 of Novem- ber 15, 1971 concerning the "Foreign Exchange Work- ing Capital System." March 4. The first parallel market rate was changed to VN$285 per US$1, and the second parallel market rate to VN$410 per US$1. March 31. Decree No. 037-SL/TC and Notice No. 93 modified Decree No. 148-SL/TC of November 15, 1971 and Notice No. 0107957D of November 15, 1971. Sales of foreign exchange by foreign governments were shifted from the official rate (effective buying rate of VN$117.20 per US$1) to the third parallel market rate. April 28. The second and third parallel market rates were changed to VN$420 per US$1. May 22. Importers under tak ing imports through the "Import Credit" procedure were allowed to pay only the import value minus VN$100 per US$1 at the time of allocation of the import credit and the balance upon utilization of the letter of credit. May 22. Export proceeds originating from the sup- ply by Vietnamese contractors of goods to the U. S. Armed Forces became eligible for a subsidy which de- preciated the exchange rate from VN$420 to VN$500 per US$1. 8 One tael equals about 37.57 grams or 1.18 troy ounces. 528 May 22. Interministerial Decision No. 311 estab- lished a subsidy for the proceeds of all exports except rubber, equivalent to the difference between a preferen- tial rate of VN$500 per US$1 and the third parallel market rate. May 23. The advance import deposit introduced on March 2 was reduced to VN$30 per US$1 and the period of retention was shortened f rom six to three months after application for an import license. June 2. A new Investment Law, Law No. 4 /72, was promulgated. June 9. Decree No. 583 extended the subsidy introduced on May 22 to the proceeds from exports of rubber. June 18. The first parallel market rate was changed to VN$290 per US$1 and the second and third parallel market rates to VN$425 per US$1. July 8. Decree-Law No. 003/TT/SLU promulgated an exchange reform which became effective with the publication of Notice No. 13 /17 /73D on July 10, 1972. Both the official parity of VN$80 - US$1 (together with the consolidation subsidy and premium of VN$38 per US$1 applied to that rate) and the limited parallel exchange market were abolished. A new official exchange rate was established at VN$425 = US$1 as well as a special exchange rate of VN$290 = US$1. All outward and inward transfers as well as pay- ments for all imports not financed by U. S. aid were to be effected at the new official rate. The special rate was applicable to imports financed by U.S. aid. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports enjoyed a subsidy equal to the difference between VN$500 per US$1 and the official rate. Transfers for students abroad were to be effected at the official rate but special scholarships were granted to some students. An equalization tax of VN$75 per US$1 was added to the first parallel market rate of VN$290 for CIP imports originating in specified countries outside the United States ("PD 31" countries), yielding an effective exchange rate of VN$365 per US$1. The 1 per cent exchange tax applied to proceeds from rubber exports sold at the third parallel market rate was abolished. July 8. Decree No. 107-SL/TC established an Ex- change Council consisting of the Ministers of Finance and of Economy and of the Governor of the National Bank. It was responsible for the determination of the official and special exchange rates and the procedures and operation of a newly created exchange market. July 8. Decree No. 108-SL/TC abolished the Parallel Exchange Compensation Fund created in October 1970 and established in the National Bank an Exchange Reg- ulation Fund which was to be responsible for any inter- vention in the exchange market. July 28. The official exchange rate was changed f rom VN$425 to VN$430 per US$1 and the special rate from VN$290 to VN$295 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 28. Decree-Law No. 6/TT/SL abolished the customs tariff of June 18, 1970 and replaced it by a new tariff which had already been applied since November 15, 1971. August 21. Exit visa fees for Vietnamese citizens were abolished. August 22. The official exchange rate was changed from VN$430 to VN$435 per US$1 and the special rate from VN$295 to VN$300 per US$1. September 11. Interministerial Decision No. 4857 BKT/BTC established two additional subsidies for exports. A "bank interest subsidy" of VN$50 per US$1 surrendered was granted on all exports effected af ter September 11, 1972. A "special subsidy" of VN$25 per US$1 surrendered was granted to new exports as desig- nated by a commission chaired by the Minister of Economy. Exports of rubber and of discarded goods were not eligible for these additional subsidies. September 22. Decree No. 929 extended the "bank interest subsidy" of VN$50 per US$1 to rubber exports. September 22. Decree No. 508 reintroduced an equalization tax for imported cotton yarn. October 4. While the exchange rate for cotton and wheat financed under U. S. P. L. 480 was maintained at VN$300 per US$1 (the special ra te ), that for other goods financed under that law was changed to VN$435 per US$1 ( the official ra te ). October 20. Interministerial Decree No. 752 modified Interministerial Decree No. 495 of November 15, 1971 by allowing exporters to retain 10 per cent of their total export proceeds in EFAC accounts, as against 3 per cent previously. October 29. The official exchange rate was changed from VN$435 to VN$445 per US$1; the special rate remained unchanged at VN$300 per US$1. VIET-NAM November 3. Order No. 563 established equalization taxes of VN$75 and VN$150 per US$1 on a few specified commodities financed with U. S. aid or im- ported with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. November 11. The export prohibition for manu- factured and semimanufactured goods previously imported into Viet-Nam was lifted for products proc- essed in Viet-Nam whose value added corresponded to, or exceeded, a specified proportion of the total export price. November 21. Order No. 601 added certain com- modities to the list of imports subject to equalization tax at VN$75 or VN$150 per US$1. (On December 27 the system was extended to some commodities financed with U. S. aid.) December 7. Notice No. 100 of the Directorate- General of Exchange amended the prescription of cur- rency regulations. In addition to U. S. dollars, author- ized banks henceforth were permitted to repatriate other convertible currencies. The National Bank stood ready to purchase U. S. dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling, all of which it would quote officially. Proceeds from exports to France, Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom had to be collected and surrendered in the currency of the country concerned. Banks were not allowed to convert any of the currencies mentioned into other currencies, but they could temporarily convert unquoted converti- ble currencies into quoted currencies. EFAC accounts could be denominated only in currencies quoted by the National Bank. December 9. The official exchange rate was changed from VN$445 to VN$455 per US$1 and the special rate from VN$300 to VN$310 per US$1. December 30. The official exchange rate was changed from VN$455 to VN$465 per US$1 and the special rate from VN$310 to VN$320 per US$1. 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA Exchange Rate System * No par value for the Western Samoa Tala has been established with the Fund. A fixed relationship is main- tained between the tala and the New Zealand dollar; the middle rate is WS$0.8076 = $NZ1, and the Bank of Western Samoa's buying and selling rates on December 30, 1972 were WS$0.8019 and WS$0.8132 per $NZ1, respectively. The Bank of Western Samoa's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were US$1.4937 and US$1.4662, respectively, per WS$1 on December 30, 1972. Administration of Control Western Samoa is a member of the Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance operating as the exchange control authority; the Minister may delegate his approval authority to the Financial Secretary, who in turn may delegate part of his powers to authorized banks. All payments to non- residents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry, however, has dele- gated to the Bank of Western Samoa, the only author- ized bank, authority to approve certain payments up to any amount and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Sterling Area territories take place in Sterling Area currencies, but there are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited from all sources for reasons of security or health. Other commodities may be imported from any source. Each licensed commercial importer receives an annual allo- cation of foreign exchange, to be taken up on a quarterly basis, which may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited except automobiles. The allocations are made by the Ministry of Finance and communicated to the Bank of Western Samoa; the latter automatically provides the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submis- sion of documentary evidence. Persons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for imports of higher value. The import of automobiles, whether for business or personal use, is subject to specific approval on a case-by-case basis by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas con- tractual obligations and insurance, are approved auto- matically by the Bank of Western Samoa up to any amount or within limits determined by the Ministry of Finance. Paymen ts in excess of these l im i ts as well as paymen ts for all other invisibles require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Remittances in respect of study abroad are freely authorized. The Ministry of Finance approves up to any amount the transfer of genuine income derived locally from pen- sions, rents, interests, and dividends by persons per- manently resident overseas. Residents traveling to American Samoa, whether for business or private purposes, are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to US$50 a person a quarter; an additional allowance of US$15 a day is provided to cover hotel expenses. The basic travel allowance for other coun- tries is equivalent to WS$10 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$ 1,000. The Ministry of Finance grants supplementary allocations when evidence of genuine need is provided. Resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes, as part of their foreign currency allowance, up to WS$20 a person a trip. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports requ ire the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agr icu l ture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Copra exports are controlled by the Copra Board and banana exports by the Produce Marketing Division. Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa within a reasonable time after shipment. Where exceptional circumstances exist, the Ministry of Finance may waive this requirement for certain export items. * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U.S. dollar was being devalued, the Western Samoa tala remained pegged to the New Zealand dollar, at the previously existing ratio. The par value of the latter currency was maintained in terms of gold. As a result, the tala appreciated in terms of U. S. dollars. The buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar became US$1.6617 and US$1.6396 per WS$1. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. Resident travelers must on return sell to the Bank all foreign currency brought 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA in. Resident and nonres ident travelers may br ing in any amount in foreign and domestic banknotes. approval by the Minister of Finance; such approval is normally granted. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the M in is try of Finance and capital received by residents must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. The transfer of legacies from estates of deceased local residents due to beneficiaries per- manently residing overseas is approved up to a limit of WS$ 10,000 a year. The Bank of Western Samoa approves transfers of g if ts to relatives and dependents, either for special fam i ly occasions or by way of mainte- nance, up to WS$200 a year for each fam i ly group. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act No. 27/1965, as amended in 1969, makes provision for the granting of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold in any form. Changes during 1972 June 23. Western Samoa ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 23. Operations in sterling were suspended. June 28. Operations in sterling were resumed. The fixed relationship between the tala and the New Zealand dollar (the par value of which was maintained in terms of gold) remained unchanged at WS$0.8076 = $NZ 1. As a result, the tala appreciated in terms of sterling. July 1. Export duties on agricultural exports were abolished. The primage duty on certain food imports also was abolished. 531 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System * The currency of the Yemen A rab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is issued by the Central Bank of Yemen. No par value has been established with the Fund. All transactions take place in a free market at a fluctuating exchange rate. Since May 1972, however, a Central Bank guideline has been in effect advising commercial banks to adhere to a rate of YRls 5.00 = US$1 in their foreign exchange transactions, with a maximum deviation of 1 per cent on either side of this rate. On December 31, 1972 the rate for the U. S. dol- lar was about YRls 5 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered on behalf of the Minister of Economy by the Central Bank of Yemen, which has the au tho r i ty to grant exchange licenses and licenses for imports and exports. The only commercial banks and authorized dealers are the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) and four branches of fore ign commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements under bilateral payments arrangements 1 are made in the currencies and through the accounts provided for by these arrangements. Otherwise, settle- ments are u sua l ly made in pounds sterling or U. S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are reserved for the Governmen t. All other impor ts requ i re import licenses. These are in principle issued in accordance with a list of authorized imports wh ich was established by Decree No. 1 of Janua ry 1969 and is reviewed periodically, but licenses are issued freely for all commodities for which government agen- cies do not have the exclusive right of importation. In addition to a license, the importation of certain com- modities requires the permission of the competent min- istry or, for certain textiles, of the Sanaa Textile Fac- tory. Importers who have obtained an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the local banks or the free market. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad do not require an import license. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the Yemen authorities decided to allow the rate of the rial to be determined by market forces. By February 25, the rial had appreciated in the free market to about YRls 4.50 per U. S. dollar. The Central Bank then announced its intention to stabilize the rate at this level, provided that only a minimum of market intervention was required to do so. 1 The Yemen Arab Republic maintains a bilateral payments arrange- ment with Egypt. 532 defense tax of 5 per cent ad valorem and a statistical tax of 2 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts in respect of invisibles require an exchange license issued by the Central Bank. Remit- tances of savings by expatriates are permitted up to 50 per cent of annual salary. Resident nationals may remit the equivalent of <£ stg. 30 or more a child a mon th for educa t ional purposes. Foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad is freely gran ted. For tourist travel, the Central Bank authorizes foreign exchange according to the merits of the application. For business travel, authorization is freely gran ted. In principle, travelers require the prior au thor iza t ion of the Central Bank to take out Yemen currency in excess of YRls 200 or any foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are proh ib i ted. All exports require export licenses. Exporters are in principle required to surrender the foreign exchange proceeds within three months from shipment. In practice, the surrender requirement for exports of cotton, coffee, salt, and hides and skins is 50 per cent, payable w i th in three months f rom sh ipmen t; the rema in ing 50 per cent may be kept by the exporter as a foreign currency deposit with a commercial bank and may be used freely for authorized transactions. Proceeds from qat exports are subject to 100 per cent surrender in Yemeni dinars within 15 days from shipment, a 5 per cent initial deposit having to be made at the YBRD upon receipt of the license. Other exports (comprising mainly fruits, fish, and tobacco) are not subject to surrender requirements in cash terms, but the proceeds must be used fully for importing food, and an initial rial deposit of 5 per cent of the export value is required. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered but citizens of the Yemen A rab Repub l ic may ma in ta in foreign currency deposit accounts with commercial banks. In pr inc ip le, the import of foreign exchange (wh e th er in the fo rm of gold, silver, currency, or d r a f t s) and of banknotes of the Yemen A rab Republic requires the prior au tho r iza t ion of the Central Bank, but fo re ign na t iona ls and nonresidents are exempt f rom these provisions. Capital A ll cap i tal t r an s f e rs requ i re p r ior approval and capi- tal proceeds must be su r rende red. Both domestic and fore ign inves tment are regulated by Law No. 13 of 1970. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are free to t rans fer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits after taxes or of their capital. Gold A 20-rial gold coin has been issued, which is not legal tender and does not c ircu la te in the Yemen A rab Republic. Dealings in gold are governed by Regula- tion No. 5 of 1967. The Regulation stipulates tha t, apa rt from dealings for numismatic or ornamental purposes, residents may not deal in gold except with the authori- zation of the Minister of Economy. Residents coming into possession of gold (other than ornaments or numismatic coins) are required to offer it for sale to a licensed gold dealer. Licensed dealers are in turn required to sell any gold so acquired to the Central Bank (for the account of the Treasury) within one week from the date of purchase. These gold regulations are not applied in practice and measures have been taken for their abolition. YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC Changes during 1972 March 18. A Banking Committee comprising the managers of commercial banks and with the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank as chairman was estab- lished. It was to review banking developments and exchange rate matters periodically. May 6. The Central Bank advised commercial banks to adhere to a free market rate of YRls 5 = US$1 in their exchange transactions, with a maximum deviation of 1 per cent on either side, and to report to the Central Bank any difficulties they might encounter in observing these limits. (Since the end of 1971, the free market rate had depreciated from about YRls 4.70 to about YRls 5.00 per U. S. dollar, following an announcement on December 15, 1971 that the Central Bank was pre- pared to purchase U. S. dollars from commercial banks at YRls 5 = US$1.) 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Exchange Rate System * The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is issued by the Bank of Yemen and is defined as equivalent to 2.13281 grams of fine gold. No par value has been established for the Yemeni dinar. The central rate is YD 1 = US$2.60571, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen has availed itself of wider margins. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1972 was about YD 1 = US$2.60. On December 31, 1972, the National Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were YD 0.375 and YD 0.396 and those for sterling were YD 0.895 and YD 0.915. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the General Department for Exchange Control through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has delegated certain powers to the Director of Exchange Control, who is a member of the Committee. The Ministry of Economy and Industry issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized dealers (licensed commercial banks approved by the Director of Ex- change Control); at present the only commercial bank and authorized dealer is the National Bank of Yemen. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by an authorized dealer, and for payments by the oil refinery, all payments for imports (including those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Two public corporations and a semi- public corporation are engaged in foreign trade (see Imports and Import Payments, be low). The oil refinery is treated as a resident entity but in its operations gen- erally is not affected by the existing exchange and trade controls. Prescription of Currency The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947, but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as part of the Overseas Sterling Area. Exchange trans- actions must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized dealers in accordance with prescription of currency regulations that are in certain respects similar to those applicable in the United Kingdom. All pay- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen on February 16, decided to maintain the gold content of its currency unchanged. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar be- came approximately US$2.89 per YD 1. 534 ments to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in prescribed currencies x and surrendered to authorized dealers. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held by certain persons not resident in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. The principal type of nonresident account is the External Account in Yemeni Dinars. External Ac- counts may be credited with proceeds from convertible foreign currency transferred f rom abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with balances f rom other External Accounts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank d ra f ts; the accounts cannot be credited with payments in the form of foreign bank- notes (unless they have been declared to the customs on en t ry ), or with locally raised or locally earned funds. External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, all imports other than those of the oil refinery require individual licenses. Most overland merchanting trade with the Yemen Arab Republic is also exempt from the licensing requirements. There are special regulations governing merchanting trade with neighboring countries. Imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. An import program is drawn up annua l ly, but its quotas are operated flexibly. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary d ra f ts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control; all other forms of payment for imports require such approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. A Board of Trade, which is an integral part of the Economic Organization, is in charge of the trading activities of the nationalized companies. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over im- ports of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cooking oil, tea, and cigarettes. The National Import Company Ltd. im- ports certain consumer goods not mentioned in Law No. 37 of 1969. The National Company for Home Trade is the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all government requirements, and most re- quirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution between these zones and the rest of the People's Demo- cratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. The basic exchange allowance for tourism, which residents may take up without applying for exchange control approval, is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a trip in travelers checks, drafts, and foreign notes and coins (50 per cent of this amount for children under t e n ) .2 Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises and the oil refinery are allowed to remit abroad up to 50 per cent and three eights, respectively, of their total earnings (net of taxes). All insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic banknotes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in travelers checks, foreign banknotes, or other foreign means of payment. Furthermore, nonresidents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports, including petroleum products, are exempt from licenses. Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen Arab Republic and other neighboring countries specified by the Foreign Exchange Committee, export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. The proceeds of exports or re-exports to the Yemen Arab Republic and other neighboring coun- tries may be surrendered in the national currency of the importing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- residents must be collected in foreign currency (or re- ceived from an External Account) when due and sur- rendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes but not more than YD 5 in domestic currency. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon departure to remit their liquid funds to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under 2 The equivalent of YD 75 for Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen Arab Republic, and the Gulf States. Travelers to the Yemen Arab Republic may alternatively take out up to YRls 1,000 in Yemen rials. PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN the Law for the Organization of Industry and the Promotion of Industrial Investment (Law No. 23 of May 14, 1971) may be granted exemptions f rom import duty and various other tax facilities. All remittances abroad of interest and profits require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. Profit remittances abroad by foreign firms under Law No. 23 also are subject to the Exchange Control Law (Law No. 16) and in any one year should not normally exceed 50 per cent of the accrued net profit. Beginning five years after production has started, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of actual or book value or surrender or liquidation value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 per cent a year; if an expatriate national or foreign investor encounters difficulties, however, his capital may be retransferred six months after entry. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad af ter the firm concerned has been estab- lished may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed gold- smiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coins and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold only in the form of ornaments or numismatic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered gold- smiths require licenses issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy and Industry (General Department for Foreign Trade), af ter the approval of the Director of Exchange Control has been obtained. Travelers may bring in or take out reasonable amounts of gold, in the form of ornaments only (not exceeding YD 250 in value for incoming travelers and not exceeding YD 100 for departing travelers). Imports and exports of gold by travelers are subject only to customs control, but incom- ing travelers must sell to an authorized dealer any gold coins or bullion they carry. Changes during 1972 January 12. The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen established a central rate of YD 1 = US$2.60571 and availed itself of wider margins. (The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar had been approximately US$2.60 per dinar since December 21, 1971.) June 23. The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. Subsequently, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen maintained its central rate unchanged at YD 1 = US$2.60571, and the dinar ceased to be at par with sterling, which was floating. August 25. Law No. 36 reorganized the banking sys- tem and established a central bank, the Bank of Yemen, which replaced the Yemeni Currency Authority. The existing currency laws were repealed to the extent that they contradicted the provisions of the new law. 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.0481478 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav Dinar, corresponding to Din 18.4571 = SDR 1 or Din 17.00 = US$1. There is no exchange market.1 The National Bank of Yugoslavia quotes rates for leading convertible currencies on the basis of their rates against the U. S. dollar in international centers. On December 30, 1972 the National Bank's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were Din 16.75 and Din 16.85. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these matters, the Federal Executive Council prescribes the general pro- visions in respect of foreign trade and exchange trans- actions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regulations, makes decisions governing commercial transactions, and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade with payments agreement countries. The Federal Secre- tariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions gov- erning exchange transactions. This Secretariat and the National Bank of Yugoslavia administer the exchange controls. The National Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries; it also licenses compensation transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank or an authorized bank. The latter are of three types. Fully authorized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$2 million and an annual exchange turnover of at least US$80 million, may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugo- slavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit opera- tions (including the granting of guarantees). Limited authorized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$400,000, may conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through the intermediary of a fully authorized credit bank. Authorized exchange offices may only deal in foreign banknotes and travelers checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks and to cer- tain specifically authorized banks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trad- ing undertakings) registered for this purpose. Registra- * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Yugoslavia on February 15 established a central rate equivalent to Din 17.00 = US$1. With effect f rom February 23, the par va lue was changed to 0.0433330 gram of fine gold per dinar, corresponding to Din 17.00 = US$1. 1 A foreign exchange market started operating on May 8, 1973. 536 tion is effected automatically, provided that certain con- ditions, including the provision of minimum working capital for trade enterprises, are fulfilled. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their orders through economic organiza- tions which export and /or import on their own behalf. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugo- slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, set- tlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring settle- ments through bilateral accounts as follows: (1) in U. S. dollars with Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and the U. S. S. R.; and (2) in their respective currencies with India and Iraq.2 Certain settlements with Bangladesh, Colombia, Mexico, and Pakistan take place through special accounts. A degree of multilateralization of pay- ments is provided under the bilateral payments agree- ments with Afghanistan, Iraq, and Ghana. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules. Foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies in Yugoslavia. For- eign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open with authorized banks accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Foreign juridical and physical persons may freely open nonresident accounts in convertible d inars with authorized banks. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident juridical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.3 Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any con- vertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the account-holding bank being pre- pared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral 2 With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1973 settlements with India and Hun- gary took place in convertible currencies, following the termination on December 31, 1972 of the bilateral paymen ts agreements. :! Accounts may be denominated in any of the following currencies: Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. Other convertible currencies must be converted into one or more of the forego ing currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currencies may be opened only for foreign juridical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia and subject to prior approval by the National Bank. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for retransfer to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Nonresident accounts in convertible dinars may be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in con- vertible currency has been authorized and they may be debited freely for permitted payments in Yugoslavia and for transfer abroad in the convertible currency of the account holder's country of domicile. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations or subject to the approval of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Balances are in principle nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncom- mercial payments by the account holder or by members of his close family, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign juridical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties or from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pensions and disability allowances of persons who have emigrated from Yugoslavia, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected in accord- ance with the existing regulations. Resident nationals may maintain foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con- vertible currencies w i th any authorized bank, provided that they originate from receipts specified in the rele- vant regulations. These accounts are kept in the cur- rency deposited, are interest bearing, and interest is paid partly in the foreign currency deposited and partly in dinars. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained for an indefinite period of time and may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or his immediate family; balances are not transferable to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, below). Yugoslav emigrants residing abroad and former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia may also open for- eign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be maintained by resident nationals. In the case of currencies of Eastern European coun tr ies4 and Mongolia the accounts are denominated in account dollars; for other bilateral countries the accounts are kept in the currency deposited. In general, balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for retransfers to the bilateral country to which the account is related. 4 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Romania, and U. S. S. R. YUGOSLAVIA Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco- nomic organizations registered as participating in for- eign trade. In addition to economic organizations specializing in foreign trade, most major industrial pro- ducers are registered. The import of certain basic food- stuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, edible oil, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities, import licenses are not required. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in four categories 5 accord- ing to the manner in which exchange is made avail- able: LB —liberalized goods; GDK —goods imported under global exchange quotas; RK and DK—goods subject to individual quotas (RK if individual quotas are fixed by quan t i ty and DK if they are fixed in d in a r s ); and D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. About 1,850 items (out of a total of over 4,500) are classified under LB; protective equipment for work- ers and all other goods not specifically included in the GDK, RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quantitative restriction. LB goods are mainly raw materials, foodstuffs, and spare parts; they also include some consumer goods. In 1971 as well as in 1972 goods currently imported under the LB regime accounted for about 29 per cent of total imports.6 Exchange for payments for LB imports from the con- vertible currency area is made available freely in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting coun- try. Payments for imports of liberalized goods from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. The GDK list comprises most consumer goods, cer- tain raw materials, and most capital equipment. In 1971 imports of commodities presently on this list amounted to about 46 per cent of total imports; in 1972 they also were about 46 per cent of total imports. Such imports can be made under several d ifferent procedures. Those for nonconsumer goods are as follows: Each importer of raw materials and other reproduction materials receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any such goods listed as GDK. For certain imports by the metalworking, shipbuilding, electrical, and textile industries the authority to use the allocated foreign exchange quota is dependent on the exports that the 6 With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1973 a fifth category was add ed: DL—goods liberalized under special license. These goods are certain items, such as tape recorders and watches, that previously were GDK, RK, or DK items. 6 With effect from January 1, 1973, however, goods whose 1971 import value totaled some US$500 million were transferred from the restricted import categories to the LB category. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA importers have made (import-export l ink ing ) .7'8 Major exporters, i.e., exporters whose exports settled in con- vertible currency account for more than 51 per cent of their total sales proceeds, are permitted to pay freely for imports of raw materials and other reproduc- tion materials for their own needs. Payment for imports of capital goods on the GDK list may be f inanced f rom specific exchange allocations; a considerable portion may be freely financed from retention quota funds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), funds originating in depreciation allowances, and credits obtained abroad, including suppliers' credits. The spe- cific exchange allocations are limited mainly to large investment projects, inc lud ing public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assembly. Eco- nomic organizations may acquire foreign exchange not exceeding 10 per cent of their annual depreciation allowance, although certain services qua l ify for per- centages varying between 30 per cent (ocean and river shipping) and 100 per cent (air transpor ta t ion). One half of the exchange thus allocated is in convertible and one half in bilateral currency. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list DK ), mainly selected agricultural and mineral prod- ucts (such as wheat, sugar, rice, coffee, and salt) but also cigars, cigarettes, and machine tools, are subject to maximum quotas established for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are established either in physical quantities (RK) or in dinars (DK ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by negotiations among the economic organizations.9 Imports of present RK and DK items amounted to about 21 per cent of imports both in 1971 and 1972. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, ammunition, opium, motor vehicles, tractors, certain textile fibers and yarns, television sets, railroad rolling stock, and aircraft. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities.10 Such licenses do not imply the right to purchase foreign exchange; the economic organizations must supply the exchange from their global exchange quotas or retention quotas.11 Imports of D items accounted for 4.3 per cent of total imports in 1971 and about 4.7 per cent in 1972. 7 This system is also applied to certain DK imports. 8 Early in 1973 the existing system for the textile industries was terminated. 9 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed upon among economic organizations within the Federal Economic Chamber. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribution. Imports of coffee, wheat, sugar, rice, and salt for final consumption are administered by the State Food Administration, which is authorized to select the most competitive importer from among registered importers. 10 With effect f rom January 1, 1973 import licenses were also required for goods under the new DL regime. (See footnote 5.) 11 Under a new procedure that came into effect on January 1, 1973, import licenses automatically entitled the holder to purchase the for- eign exchange. 538 For certain goods there is an additional requirement, irrespective of those set out above, for a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secre- tariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1972 these goods were 62 LB items, 41 GDK items, and 4 RK items. For all 107 items, the Secretariat may prescribe direct importation f rom the country of origin; these items include a wide range of tropical foods tuffs and f ru i t s, raw materials, fats, oils, and textiles, as well as tin and raw cotton. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds free ly to import goods intended for their own use or for the use of close relatives, regardless of the impo rt regime for the goods. Also, Yugoslavs re turn ing f rom work abroad may import goods intended for their personal needs or the needs of their own household, provided that such goods were paid for f rom the sav ings from the ir foreign earnings; such savings need not be kept on foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals working abroad may only import motorcars, trucks, motor- cycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, through a registered enterprise and provided that pay- ment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt f rom this prescribed manner of payment and method of impor ta t ion, however, under the following circumstances: when they return for permanent resi- dence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indemnity received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad continuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. Yugoslav citizens re turn ing from a tourist trip abroad may import any amount of goods intended for the needs of their household. However, if the va lue of the goods exceeds Din 1,000, these goods must be handed over, at the customs office at the point of entry, to a domestic forwarder for delivery to the owner's address; such delivery cannot be made unless the cus- toms duties are paid. Compensation transactions are only authorized in exceptional circumstances, both in 1971 and 1972 they accounted for less than 1 per cent of total imports. Importers are required to no t i fy authorized banks of all payments abroad of more than the equivalent of US$5,00012> 13 one mon th before the payments fall 12 However, for imports of certain raw materials only payments of more than US$100,000 are governed by this regu la t ion and no dinar advance deposit is required. (See footnote 13 next page.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution due. At this time 13' 14 they are also required to deposit with an authorized bank an amount in d inars equal in value to the import order. The deposits are not interest bearing and they are used to purchase the foreign exchange for the impo rt paymen t. Deposits are not required for paymen ts made by debiting foreign exchange accounts of importers. Many agricultural commodities and foods tuffs are subject to variable import levies. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 3 per cent equalization tax are payable on all commodities not exempt from customs du ty; in addition, an import surcharge of 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value at the border (2 per cent for certain essentials, such as wheat flour and raw cotton) has to be paid for all dutiable commodities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, including transportation, are fu l ly liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made freely available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are transferable under certain conditions. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia main- tains bilateral paymen ts arrangemen ts, then such pay- ments may be made only if the agreement in question provides for this to be done. Authorized banks may sell fore ign currency up to the equivalent of Din 600 for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses. The National Bank of Yugoslavia may sell any amount of foreign exchange for the foregoing and for unspecified purposes justified in light of the circumstances. There is no basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. Travel agencies, however, may obtain special exchange allocations to enable them to sell organized tours abroad against payment in dinars. The National Bank may also authorize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and individual travel abroad. The exchange is provided in the form of travelers checks and cash. Payments for other invisibles may be made from the remitter's own foreign exchange funds (e.g., from retention quotas, or, when made by various social and socio-political organizations, from specific annual allocations). Not more than Din 500, in denominations of Din 50 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials (including copper) that are in 13 The deposit requirements were abolished with e f fect f rom Jan- u a ry 1, 1973. 14 The implementing rules are such that deposits for payments in nonconvertible currencies for imports f rom the bilateral area may be made less than one mon th before payments fa ll due. YUGOSLAVIA short supply on the domestic market and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Such approval may be given for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported within a certain period (global approva l). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an undertaking to import from such countries. In accord- ance with bilateral arrangements, Yugoslavia restrains exports of certain commodities to France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Sweden, and the United States. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 60 days from the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this rule. The sur- render of these proceeds is not required. The fu ll export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the relevant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles or be sold to an authorized bank. Retention quotas may be used to pay for imports of certain con- sumer goods if such imports are made by economic organizations that are in the catering and tourist indus- tries or are engaged in setting up trade fairs, and by film enterprises; such imports are also permitted as consignment stocks. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the remainder may be retained indefinitely but can only be used to import liberalized raw materials and cannot earn interest. The retention quotas may also be placed on interest-bearing time deposit accounts with authorized banks. The per- mitted retention rate is 20 per cent for all export earn- ings f rom goods and services (45 per cent for the foreign exchange earnings of hotels and 100 per cent for the exchange receipts of Yugoslav enterprises operating abroad). In some instances (services rendered to for- eign tourists, sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank, e tc .), sales against payment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota purposes. Producing enterprises selling consumer goods in Yugoslavia for foreign currency may retain 15 per cent of the foreign exchange thus earned. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 60 days from the date on which the claim is payable (90 days after completion of projects for Yugoslav organizations' exchange earnings from construction activities) but need not be surrendered in full. Receipts from services are eligible for retention quotas. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA with the activities of the economic organization con- cerned, including payments for purchases of equip- ment and other material for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferable to economic organizations other than those with which the recipients are coop- erating in technical and business matters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, while employed abroad, depos- ited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "savings book," may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign cur- rency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the fu ll amount of a person's savings from per diem allowances, salaries, and other earnings abroad, from fellowships, from royalties, and from inheritances. They may also be credited with 50 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange accruing from pensions, disabled persons' allowances, alimony, and grants received from abroad, and with 100 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange accruing from indemnities and insurance, up to an amount equivalent to Din 136,000 per transaction; for amounts in excess of this figure, 30 per cent of the excess may be placed to the credit of a foreign exchange account. l f) These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his fam- ily; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Retail sales of manufactured goods by authorized trade organizations to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia paying in foreign exchange are made at a discount of 10 per cent, representing the exemption from turn- over taxes. This discount is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in for- eign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Not more than Din 500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 50 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely contracted by fu l ly authorized banks and economic organizations, with the exception that no consumer goods may be imported on deferred payment terms and that no for- eign financial credits may be taken up with a grace period of less than two years. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded with the National Bank. Loans must ordinarily be repaid with foreign exchange that is either obtained by the economic organization as export retention quotas and foreign exchange amortization (depreciation) allocations or acquired from banks 15 With effect from January 1, 1973 the f u ll amount accruing from indemnities and insurance could be credited to the fore ign exchange account. 540 according to the regulations governing the foreign trade regime. Credits in the former category are subject to prior dinar deposit requirements; the deposits are noninterest bearing and are held with the National Bank until full repayment of the foreign credits. In the case of finan- cial credits and time deposits in foreign exchange received by business banks, the five basic rates of deposit introduced in April 1972 ranged from 1 per cent for maturities over ten years to 40 per cent for maturities of less than two years. However, as a tem- porary measure beginning in mid-December 1972, a dinar deposit requirement of 75 per cent was required for all financial credits regardless of maturity. In the case of credits for importation of capital goods, the deposit rates at the end of 1972 were ( 1) 20 per cent for credits with a maturity up to two years; ( 2) 10 per cent for credits between three and five years; and ( 3) 1 per cent for credits with a maturity over five years. However, if the capital goods were imported for investments in underdeveloped regions of Yugoslavia, the latter deposit rates were 10 per cent for credits with a maturity up to three years and 1 per cent for credits with a maturity in excess of three years. For 'foreign credits of any kind guaranteed by Yugoslav commercial banks, a dinar deposit of 5 per cent was required which yields no interest and is held to maturity. Certain for- eign credits were specifically exempted from the fore- going deposit requirements; these include credits from specified international financial organizations and credits contracted for or on behalf of the Federal Government or the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Foreign credits repayable with foreign exchange acquired according to the regulations governing the foreign trade regime are trade credits for raw materials and intermediate goods, usually up to 360 days matu- rity; counterpart payments in dinars must be made according to Na t ional Bank regulations in force at the time. At the end of 1972, the requirement was a 66 per cent down payment on the date of contract or date when goods clear customs, with the remaining 34 per cent payable 30 days before final maturity of the credit. Exceptions were (a) that in the case of imports of raw materials subject to import quotas (RK) and imports of capital goods and equipment to be incor- porated into projects and ships under export contracts, a deposit of 100 per cent must be made 30 days prior to repayment of the credit; and (b) that certain basic raw materials (such as crude oil, wool, and cotton) were exempt from d inar counterpart requirements. All other t rans fe rs of a capital na ture by residents or nonresidents require ind iv idual licenses. Foreigners may invest in certain Yugoslav economic organizations but only through jo int ventures; such foreign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organization's capital. Profit transfers abroad may be financed from the retention quota, and in addition profit transfers are perm i t ted up to one third of the joint ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution venture's foreign currency earnings from exports of goods and services. 16 The investment income of Yugoslav economic orga- nizations earned abroad must be repatriated within 90 days; however, when repatriated the profits are gov- erned by the regulations for retention quotas. Resi- dents are obliged to repatriate and, with the exception of inheritances, to surrender all foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Under the Law on the Establishment of Enterprises Abroad, Yugoslav economic organizations and the authorized banks may export their capital for investment in foreign enter- prises and may also establish their own enterprises abroad. Other capital transactions abroad by residents are usually not approved. A decision of the Federal Executive Council of October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citi- zens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years from the date of distri- bution of the estate. Gold The National Bank has issued certain commemorative gold coins, which are not legal tender. Yugoslav and foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration and, for exports, subject to proof that they have been pur- chased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private per- sons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may be sold to the National Bank of Yugoslavia or to any authorized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, import, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been reg- istered as trading in gold may import gold jewelry under the GDK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coins. Sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank against payment in dinars (calculated by applying the Din 17 per U. S. dollar rate to a price of US$38 an ounce) are regarded as exports and entitle the seller to a retention quota of 20 per cent in convertible foreign exchange. Other domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price which equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic eco- nomic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each individually. Changes during 1972 January 1. Regulations were issued permitting non- resident foreigners to establish dinar accounts in Yugo- 16 On Apr il 27, 1973 a new Law on Foreign Investments, ad ju s ted to the recent constitutional amendmen ts, was passed. Acco rd ing to th is law, the legal provisions in force when con t rac ts on fo re ign inves t- ments were concluded will be applied, if the foreign investors so desire, du r ing the entire life of the contracts. YUGOSLAVIA slavia which were freely transferable to other non- residents, could be used for purchases of goods and services in Yugoslavia, or could be freely converted into any convertible currency. These accounts could be credited with convertible currencies transferred f rom abroad and with transfers from other similar non- resident accounts in Yugoslavia. January 1. The proportion which could be retained from foreign exchange received by enterprises from sales of consumer goods within Yugoslavia was reduced from 50 per cent to 15 per cent. January 1. The annual travel allowance of US$32 was abolished and the amount of dinars that travelers could take out of the country or bring in was increased f rom Din 100 to Din 500 a person a trip. January 14. An additional exchange allocation for 1972, totaling US$2.3 million, was fixed for GDK imports of spare parts intended for maintenance and repair of commercial vehicles in public road and urban transport and of vehicles owned by enterprises for road construction and maintenance. January 28. About 100 products were added to the list of imports for which prior approval must be obtained from the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. February 26. A new system of retention quotas came into effect, retroactive to January 1, 1972. The basic retention quota was increased from 7 per cent to 20 per cent; ratios of 45 per cent and 100 per cent, respectively, were applicable to hotels and to Yugoslav enterprises operating abroad. March 3. A special exchange allocation for 1972, totaling US$18.2 million, was established for GDK imports of peanuts, soya, and oils extracted from soya, olives, and sunflower seeds. March 3. The import surcharge was reduced to 2 per cent for imports of certain basic products, includ- ing butter, flour, hides, and cotton. March 30. Import duties were reduced for certain motor vehicles, and their parts and components. March 30. Tariff quotas were announced for duty- free imports of lead, coke, synthetic rubber, hides and skins, copper, nickel, aluminum, zinc, tin, and some other commodities. March 31. The foreign exchange quotas for imports of raw materials and spare parts and for operational expenses of enterprises selling commercial services abroad or involved in international passenger trans- portation were reduced by 20 per cent. March 31. The exchange allocations for imports of nonliberalized raw materials and intermediate goods by enterprises for which the amount of allocations was established in a specific proportion to foreign exchange earned from exports under "linking arrangements" were reduced by 15 per cent. 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA March 31. The 1972 global foreign exchange quota allocated to working organizations was reduced by 15 per cent. April 5. A trade and payments agreement was signed w i th Bangladesh. It came in to effect immediately. April 14. The import surcharge was reduced to 2 per cent for imports of serums and vaccines. April 28. New regulations to control the contracting of foreign loans by Yugoslav banks and enterprises were issued; the mechanism based on administratively decreed ratios of outstanding debt to "foreign exchange funds" was eliminated. The new regulations provided for noninterest bearing d inar deposits with the National Bank by banks and enterprises contracting foreign loans which would be held to the time of loan repay- ment. The rates of deposit varied according to the pur- pose of the loan and the ma tur i ty, the highest rate of 40 per cent being for financial loans of less than two years' maturity and the lowest of 1 per cent being for loans with a maturity of over five years for the import of capital goods. May 12. A Decision of the National Bank of Yugo- slavia established new terms for dinar deposits against imports of raw materials and intermediate goods on credit terms. May 26. The right to a retention quota f rom foreign exchange earned by sales of goods in Yugoslavia for foreign currency was established for economic organiza- tions specializing in such sales. May 26. The retention quota for the export of gold or the sale of gold to the National Bank was increased from 7 per cent to 20 per cent. May 26. The retention quota for foreign exchange earned from exports of domestic books and periodicals, newspapers, musical scores, records, and films was established at 100 per cent. The right to utilize a 50 per cent retention quota for payment of the cost of organized tours abroad was extended to tourist enter- prises and travel agencies. June 9. Imports of mutton, honey, cigarettes, floor tiles, spark plugs, and some other items were added to the list for which special import permits ("accord- ances") were required. June 9. A special global foreign exchange quota for 1972, totaling US$1 million, was established for imports of spare parts and materials for the maintenance and repair of agricultural machinery. June 15. Under the provisions of a new law, Yugo- slave state and cooperative enterprises and other com- mercial organizations were authorized to establish branches abroad; banks authorized to handle foreign trade transactions also could establish branch offices abroad. June 18. Reductions in import duties, retroactive to June 12, were announced for over 1,000 items. 542 June 23. Yugoslav craftsmen and artists were allowed to import materials necessary to their professions. June 23. A special global foreign exchange quota, totaling US$4 million, was established for imports of agricultural machinery in 1972. July 1. Skins and hides were t rans fe r red to the LB import list. July 7. A global foreign exchange quota, totaling US$66 million, was established for imports of consumer goods in 1972. July 28. An additional global foreign exchange quota for 1972, totaling US$15 m i l l ion, was established for certain organizations having registered contracts of foreign capital inves tment in a domestic joint ven tu re company. August 4. A special global foreign exchange quota, to ta l ing US$2. 2 m i l l ion, was established for imports in 1972 for the production of agricultural machinery. August 14. A law was promulgated which provided that in the event of a change in applicable legal pro- visions, contracts with foreign investors would be treated e i ther accord ing to the old or new legislation, at the option of the fore ign investor. August 25. A special global foreign exchange quota, totaling US$1 million, was established for imports in 1972 of spare parts for passenger cars. September 27. A measure, effective October 1, estab- lished that until such time as the foreign exchange market would begin operations, the National Bank would set buying and selling rates for foreign cur- rencies; these rates could not deviate more than 2.25 per cent f rom the parity rate of Din 1 = 48.1478029 milligrams of fine gold. October 1. A new foreign exchange law, mainly codifying and consolidating existing regulations, was approved. New fea tu res included a reduction in the maximum period for the repatriation to Yugoslavia of foreign exchange earnings ( f rom 90 days to 60 days) and the establishment of a retention quota for the Republics against workers' remittances. The law also provided for the establishment of a foreign exchange market. (This market started operating on May 8, 1973.) October 1. Regulations governing foreign exchange expenditures for business travel and advertising abroad were liberalized. October 1. Conditions were prescribed for the acqui- sition and utilization of dinar claims by nonresidents. November 8. Penalties were imposed on banks which as principals or guarantors of foreign credits did not meet their obligations to foreign lenders within a spec- ified period f rom the due date. November 24. The prior dinar deposit rates for for- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution eign financial credits and nonresident deposits denom- inated in foreign currencies were increased to a un iform 75 per cent; the m in imum grace period for such credits was increased from 12 months to 24 months from the date of use. December 13. A large number of items, whose 1971 import value was about US$500 m i l l ion, were trans- ferred from the restricted import lists (mostly GDK) to the liberalized import list (LB ), with effect f rom January 1, 1973. December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with India expired. Settlements henceforth took place in convertible currencies. December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Hungary expired. Settlements henceforth took place in convertible currencies. YUGOSLAVIA 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE Exchange Rate System * The par value is 1.77734 grams of fine gold per Zaire, corresponding to Z 0.5 = SDR 1. The central rate is Z 1 = US$2 and Zaire avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U. S. dollar. The Bank of Zai're ( the central bank) quotes an official rate of ex- change for the Belgian f r anc based on the rate for the zaire quoted on the official exchange market in Brussels. The buying and selling rates for other quoted currencies, except the U. S. dollar, the French franc, and the CFA franc, also are based on official market rates in Brussels. For the U. S. dollar, the Bank of Zaire quotes a fixed rate of Z 1 — US$2, buying and selling. Quotations for the French franc and CFA franc are based on daily quotations for the zaire in the official exchange market in Paris. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize payments and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of Zaire, and to per- mit the importation, exportation, and transit of goods. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zaire.1 Special authorization for the acceptance of other currency may only be given in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Payments to nonresidents must be made in the listed currencies. The Bank of Zaire has concluded special payments arrangements with the central banks of Rwanda and Uganda, but at the end of 1972 these had not yet gone into effect. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zaires. Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may only be debited with the approval of the Bank of Zaire. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and international organizations established in Zaire, may be debited freely but may be credited only w i th the proceeds of sales of foreign currency and w i th payments made by the Gov- ernment. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited for any permitted payment in foreign currency; * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, the rate for the U. S. dollar was main- tained unchanged at Z 1 = US$2. 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 544 they may be debited freely for transfers to accounts abroad or to Resident and Nonresident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts, and for sales of foreign currency against domestic currency. Nonresident nationals require special authorization from the central bank to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Convertible Accounts in Zaires may be credited in accordance w i th Circular No. 131 2 and debited freely for conversion into foreign currency or for any pay- ments in domestic currency. Such accounts may be held by residents and nonresidents but must not be credited w i th paymen ts for exports of goods or services. Imports and Import Payments The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, ammun i t ion, narcotics, and juke boxes. Import licenses are only required for a few goods on a list A (jewelry, precious stones, precious metals, gold coins, rubber tires, and sugar). The central bank has issued a general im- port and payments license which for all other goods guarantees the availability of foreign exchange when payments fall due, provided that the importer files an import declaration w i th his bank following the actual placing of the order and provided that the invoice price has been verified and found acceptable by the foreign correspondents of the Societe Generate de Surveillance. Applications for import licenses, whether requiring foreign exchange or not, are made initially to authorized banks in Kinshasa. Applications are forwarded to the central bank after certification. Af ter approval of the application by the central bank, which is given in the form of a visa, the import license application is returned to the authorized bank for validation. Import licenses are validated by the authorized banks w i thout u n d ue delay and remain valid for customs clearance du r ing a period of six months starting from the first day of the mon th following that in which valida- t ion by the commercial bank takes place. Foreign exchange is made available for all licensed imports, the validated license cons t i tu t ing at the same time an exchange license; for paymen ts purposes, the license rema ins valid as long as the relevant payments have not been completed. The counterpart of the value of goods imported under the Belgian food aid program and the U. S. import support program and the ag r icu l tu ral aid program must be deposited w i th in 120 to 180 days after their shipment. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad va lorem. In add i t ion, most imports, irrespec- - Conversion of foreign cu r rency at the official rate, transfer from another Convertible Account in Zaires, or au thor ized paymen ts by residents to nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tive of origin, are subject to a temporary import sur- charge of 5 per cent ad valorem on the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formulated by the central bank. Certain payments are subject to authorization by the central bank, which is given or refused on a nondiscriminatory basis; the approval authority for other current paymen ts has been delegated to the authorized banks. The Bank will not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents or, except for imports payable on arrival, and provided that the supplier has arranged it, for insurance on imports. Futhermore, ex- change for f re ight and insurance on imports and exports between Zaire and Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, and Scandinavia is not granted unless shipment takes place by vessels participating in the CEWAL confer- ence, or vessels specifically approved. All other pay- ments for services performed by nonresidents are in principle authorized. Transfers abroad of salaries of foreign nations, however, are restricted to 50 per cent of earnings af ter taxes. Transfers in respect of certain administrative expenses abroad by enterprises, interest on private loans, and certain portions of insurance premiums are, as a rule, authorized. Net profits of firms w i th foreign capital participation are transferab le up to an amount propor t iona te to that participation. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Zaire in local currency. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts depending on the dura- tion of the journey, up to the equivalent of Z 400 a trip; applications exceeding this amount are subject to individual approval by the central bank. The export of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign means of payment declared upon entry, minus the equivalent, at the official rate, of Z 20 for each day spent in Zai're. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general license require individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to approve such declarations, in which exporters under- take to collect the exchange proceeds. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export declarations are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. Most exports of minerals are subject to special regulations to take into account the time required for processing abroad. For mineral products, a provisional payment of about 70 per cent of the shipment's estimated value has to be received and surrendered within 8 days after shipment. For diamond exports, two thirds of the value estab- lished at a preliminary examination in Zaire must be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Export ZAIRE proceeds from coffee must be surrendered within 45 days after shipment. Receipts from other agricultural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of validation. The exportation of coffee is a monopoly of the National Coffee Office. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, tea, ivory, and certain other commodities. All exports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem, and all commodities except cement are subject to export duties. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. The import of domestic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry, less the equivalent of Z 20 a calendar day spent in Zaire. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code (Ordinance- Law No. 69-032 of June 26, 1969) is guaranteed, as is the transfer of prof i ts and dividends on such capital. With minor exceptions, other transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted. Gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by executive ordinance. When the local cur- rency part is paid by the debtor, amortization on foreign loans can be transferred in accordance with the terms of contracts that the central bank has endorsed to guaran- tee the availability of exchange for such transfers. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any fo rm, except jewe l ry cons t i tu t ing the per- sonal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the central bank. Producers are required to sell 10 per cent of their production at the official price of US$35 an ounce to the central bank. The UBIZA Company has a monopoly over the refining of domestically pro- duced gold and over the export of the refined product. Changes during 1972 January 13. The central bank in its Circular No. 139 announced that it would henceforth ascertain that appli- cations for foreign exchange by physical or juridical persons for import payments, transfers of salaries, etc., were backed by sufficient liquidity held by the applicant and not derived f rom domestic borrowing, external financing, or funds belonging to nonresidents. 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE January 13. Circular No. 139 provided that, with effect f rom March 1, the maximum permissible price for imported goods was 3 per cent below the lowest price applied to similar goods during 1971. Goods with higher invoiced prices would not be given the required visa by the foreign correspondents of the Societe Generate de Surveillance. Subsequently, certain exemptions were announced and certain adjustments were made on the basis of documentation supplied by importers and foreign suppliers. January 13. Circular No. 139 prescribed shipment by vessels participating in the CEWAL conference for all goods shipped to Zaire f rom Belgian, German, Netherlands, or Scandinavian ports, or shipped from Zaire to such ports. Authorized banks were prohibited from granting foreign exchange for freight and insur- ance in respect of imports and exports not meeting this requirement. Specific waivers could be granted by the Bank of Zaire to vessels not linked to the CEWAL conference, provided they offered favorable freight rates. January 13. The central bank in its Circular No. 139 established —in addition to the existing minimum export prices for coffee —minimum export prices for rauwolfia, papaine, ivory, and tea. January 13. Circular No. 139 provided that, with the exception of Convertible Accounts in Zaires, non- resident-held accounts denominated in zaires could no longer be debited without the prior approval of the central bank. It was specified that diplomatic missions and international organizations would henceforth be regarded as residents for purposes of the opening and utilization of accounts denominated in zaires. February 16. Imports valued at less than Z 200 ceased to be exempt from licensing and from price surveillance. February 16. Fiscal duties on a range of luxury imports were increased. A temporary import surcharge (taxe conjoncturelle temporaire) of 5 per cent ad valorem was levied on the c.i.f. value of most other commodities. May. Zaire ceased to be a member of the Common Organization of African, Malagasy and Mauritian States (OCAM). July 27. A National Coffee Office (Office National du Cafe) was established and was given a monopoly over all coffee exports. August 8. Circular No. 140 restricted the export and import of Zaire banknotes, both of which had been free, to Z 30 a person; fur thermore, the import of Zaire banknotes was permitted only to travelers who could produce evidence of a previous stay in Zaire. The import by travelers of foreign means of payment remained unrestricted, but amounts imported had to be declared and registered upon entry. Nonresident travelers were required upon en try to show that they had sufficient means to spend Z 20 a day. They could re-export their declared foreign means of payment after deduction of at least Z 20 for each day spent in Zaire, subject to evidence that local currency had been obtained by conversion at the official rate at an authorized bank; such deduction was not required if evidence could be provided that a corresponding m in imum had been taken up locally by debit to a Convertible Account in Zaires (or, with the prior approval of the central bank, to the debit of a Non- resident Account in Zaires). The exchange of foreign means of payment for zaires other than at an authorized bank henceforth was prohibited, as was shipment through the mails of any means of payment expressed in zaires. August 11. It was announced that imports from Belgium or any other country where zaires were traded at a discount would be restricted to 15 per cent of total imports and that the privileges accorded to residents of these countries under the Investment Code would be suspended. Both measures were revoked in September. August 29. A payments agreement was signed by the Bank of Zaire and the Bank of Uganda. October 18. Circular No. 141 prohibited the import and export of domestic banknotes by travelers (except, as a temporary exemption, the import by travelers who had left the country between August 8 and October 9 ). The requirement that nonresident travelers spend at least Z 20 a day was restricted essentially to tourists and business travelers, as a result of an exemption granted to many other categories of travelers. October 19. A payments agreement was signed by the Bank of Zaire and the National Bank of Rwanda. October 31. Circular No. 142 made imports of all domestic and foreign gold coins subject to prior authorization by the central bank. Gold coins were placed on import list A. October. The UBIZA Company was given a monop- oly over the refining of domestically produced gold and over the export of the refined product. 546 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Exchange Rate System * The par value is 1.14592 grams of fine gold per Zambian Kwacha, corresponding to K 0.775509 = SDR 1 or K 0.714286 - US$1 or K 1 = US$1.40. The Bank of Zambia ( the central b ank) maintains fixed buy- ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar, the interven- tion currency; on December 31, 1972 these rates were K 0.71384 and K 0.71607 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the au tho r i ty for approving nor- mal current payments is in tu rn delegated to the com- mercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The control of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Trade and Industry, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Zambia has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U. K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U. K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of coun- tries other than Rhodesia may be made in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments from residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U. S. dollars or ster- ling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. All permitted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zambian currency to an External Account-Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the United Kingdom, in U. S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars, and proceeds from exports to Rhodesia must be received in U. S. or Canadian dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of countries other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Zambia, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign cur- rency except Rhodesian currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments * Following the announcement on February 12, 1973 that the U. S. dollar was being devalued, Zambia maintained unchanged the gold parity of its currency. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became US$1 = K 0.642856 or K 1 = US$1.55556. Zambia continued to avail itself of wider margins. for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency f rom authorized banks. Blocked accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency and with any unrem i t tab le por- tion of rents and profits which have accrued to non- residents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of bal- ances on blocked accounts in Zambian securities, pro- vided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account bal- ances is freely transferable to the account holder's coun try of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, which is also blocked. Imports and Import Payments Most imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited, as is the import from all countries of certain specified com- modities for health, safety, or moral reasons; the import of certain other commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions have been complied with or special permission is given by the Ministry of Trade. There is an open general license for imports from any source other than Rhodesia. The open general license covers personal and household effects, samples, and diplomatic shipments. Imports of items listed in the open general license do not require individual import licenses, nor do any other goods, provided that the person import- ing them does not import more than K 25 worth of such goods in any one month. All other imports require individual import licenses. Import licensing aims at containing imports within a specific monthly import target. This limit does not apply to government imports, purchases from main- land China related to the financing of the local expen- ditures for the TanZam Railway, or essential machinery and equipment for the copper industry (when financed by external borrowing). Restricted import items are divided into three categories. The First Group consists of essential items, for which licenses normally are guaranteed. The Second Group also consists of essen- tial commodities, but licensing normally depends on the level of stocks available. The Third Group consists of all other commodities, mainly consumer goods; most items in this group are licensed restrictively.x Many commodities are imported by state enterprises (INDECO, MINDECO, and FINDECO). Import licensing aims in part at containing imports from Rho- desia and lessening reliance on the Rhodesian transport 1 The import licensing system was reorganized with effect February 1, 1973. f rom 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA routes. With a view to promoting a l terna t ive transport routes bypassing Rhodesia, certain goods are required to be imported via Dar es Salaam. This entails restric- tion of imports of these goods f rom South Africa, as goods of South Afr ican origin cannot be discharged in Dar es Salaam. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresi- dent account in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations normally is authorized automati- cally for all permitted imports, subject to the presenta- tion of the relevant documen ts showing that the goods have either been received in or consigned to Zamb ia; special a r rangemen ts are in force, however, for pay- ments in respect of f re ight charges on goods carried by Rhodesia Railways, and prior exchange control approval is required to open commercial letters of credit for amounts in excess of K 5,000 covering imports that do not require an ind iv idual import license. Unless prior permission is otherwise obtained, all imports must be paid for within six months of the date of importation. 2 All dutiable imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 5 per cent ad va lo rem .3 Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks w i thout prior reference to the exchange control authorities. Spe- cial reduced allocations apply to payments for invisibles to Rhodesia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for travel is K 20 a day for an adult, w i th a max imum of K 600 for each period of two ca lendar years, and K 10 a day for each child under 12 years of age, w i th a max imum of K 300 for two calendar years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, and business travel. Appli- cations for amounts exceeding the l im i ts may in cer- tain circumstances be gran ted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that exceptional treat- ment is justified 4 Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, management, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents are subject to individual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which gen- erally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable and that these services can- 2 With effect from January 11, 1973 all payments and t r an s f e rs to Rhodesia, South Africa, Mozambique, and Angola required the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia. With effect f rom J anu a ry 12, this requirement was ex tended to paymen ts and t ran s fe rs in excess of K 20,000 to all other countries. From April 24, 1973 prior exchange control approval was only required in respect of paymen ts and transfers in excess of K 20,000 to Rhodesia and South A f r ica, and the restrictions applied to all other countries on J anu a ry 12 were removed. 3 The surcharge was increased to 10 per cent ad valorem w i th effect from J anu a ry 27, 1973. 4 See also footnote 2. 5 Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its b r an ch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. 548 not be provided domestically. 5 Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated outside Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 30 per cent of the nonresident share of the equity capital or one half of net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies, is smaller/1 Foreign companies operating whichever in Zambia may remit declared profits and dividends once a year after the end of the accounting year. These limitations are not applicable to mining companies to which the Mines Acquisition (Special Provisions) Act No. 28 of 1970 is applied, i.e., those in which the Government has taken a 51 per cent interest. The remittance of depreciation allowances is not permitted. Remittances of rents to nonresidents are restricted to 50 per cent of net annual rental income. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract basis and recruited after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit to their country of domicile a third of their annual earnings. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc. To facilitate payments of small amounts, individuals are freely per- mitted to remit abroad up to K 10 a mon th for pur- poses normally approved by the exchange control authorities (including family ma in tenance). Travelers may not take out more than K 10 in Zam- bian currency and the equ iva lent of K 20 in fore ign cu r rency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports va lued at over K 50 require a license; minerals, however, are exported under general agree- ments with the mining companies. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain commodities are sub- ject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any fo rm, certain minerals, pe tro leum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in fore ign currency app rop r ia te to the coun t ry of des t ina t ion must be offered for sale to an au thor ized bank w i t h in six mon ths of the date of ship- men t; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom inv is ib les in any cu r rency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Except for trav- elers f rom the Republic of Zaire, there is no l im i ta t ion 6 An aud i tor's certificate must be submitted to the effect that the amount sought to be transferred represents bona fide realized profits derived f rom the year's operations af ter fu ll provision has been made for local taxa t ion. The prof it and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of wh ich application is being made must also be subm i t ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers. The import of Zamb ian currency is limited to K 10 for each traveler. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted but all borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Outward transfers of capi- tal are controlled, but nonresidents are normally per- mitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a deb t /equ i ty ratio of 1 to 2. 7 In general, residents are not permitted to t ran s fer capital abroad and, w i th cer ta in exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an au thor ized bank any foreign exchange wh i ch accrues to them. As a special measure, however, res iden ts may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, pro- vided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales pro- ceeds are repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 yea rs of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on d ep a r tu r e, and subsequent annual t rans fe rs of K 5,000. (2) Ma r r ied persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on depa r tu re, together w i th K 250 for each ch i ld, up to a m a x im um of K 5,000 for a f am i ly unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each ch i ld, up to a m ax imum of K 4,000 for a f a m i ly u n it a re pe rm i t ted. (3) Unma r r ied persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on departure, and sub- sequent annu al transfers of K 1,500. Persons who have been res iden ts for longer than five years are normally granted em igra t ion trea tment when they finally leave Zamb ia; in add i t ion to the ir emigration allowance, they may rem it gra tu i t ies, compensation payments, and ter- m inal benefits up to a max imum of K 8,000 on depar- ture, and up to K 5,000 as annual transfers. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acquire gold coins in Zam- bia for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th this exception, resi- dents other than the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and authorized i n d u s t r i al users are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and expor ts of gold in any fo rm o ther th an jewe lry requ i re exchange con trol approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the M in is ter of Trade and I n d u s t r y; such licenses are not norma l ly gran ted except for imports and exports by or on behalf 7 See also footnote 2. ZAMBIA of the mone ta ry au thor i t ies and indus tr ial users. Gold- bea r ing slime is exported by copper companies as a by-product for re f in ing and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may only be prov ided w i th the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1972 January 1. Foreign banks operating in Zambia were required to be incorporated locally. January 10. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly f rom outside Zambia was restricted to a deb t /equ i ty ratio of 1 to 2. Previously, applications for approval of such borrowing had to be referred to the exchange control authorities, but no specific ratio had been set. January 24. Imports of 18 commodities or groups of commodities were prohibited. These included all cop- per manufactures of types produced or manufac tured in Zambia. January 28. A temporary customs surcharge of 5 per cent ad valorem was imposed on all du t iab le imports. January 29. Import duties on a wide range of items, mainly domestic appliances and luxury consumer goods, were raised. May 25. The Ministry of Trade temporarily sus- pended the issuance of individual import licenses, and recalled all individual licenses issued prior to April 22, except where letters of credit had been estab- lished. Previously, individual import licenses had been granted freely for all commodities other than (a) those listed in Schedule 2 of the open general license and (b) goods shipped f rom or via Rhodesia. June 5. The issuance of import licenses was resumed, but only for items considered essential for the economy and within a monthly target of K 20 million (net of certain items not affected by the target, ma in ly govern- ment imports, and when financed by external resources, imports by copper compan ies ). June 6. The Bank of Zambia announced that foreign companies operating in Zambia were henceforth per- mitted to remit declared profits and dividends only once a financial year, a f ter the end of the accounting year. June 8. Commercial banks could no longer regard balances held abroad as liquid assets in calculating their l iqu id i ty ratio. June 23. Zambia ceased to be a Scheduled Territory of the Sterling Area. June 23. The Bank of Zambia ceased to quote fixed buying and selling rates for the pound sterling, the effective parity relationship for which had been approxi- mately <£ stg. 1 = K 1.861. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at K 1 = US$1.40. August 25. The existing open general license for imports was revoked and replaced by one with nar- 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA rower coverage. Previously, the open general license contained two commodity lists, one with items that could be imported freely without an individual license and one with items that were subject to restrictive individual licensing; all items not included in the first list could be imported freely by anyone up to K 50 a month for each importer. Henceforth, three of the items on the first list required individual licenses (lubri- cating grease, aviation fuels, and certain other oils and fue l s ), while the others remained free of license; the second list was canceled and items previously on this list remained subject to restrictive individual licensing. The amount up to which any item could be imported freely was reduced to K 25 a month and this facility was restricted to immigrants and persons repatriating to Zambia. September 12. The restriction on remittances of profits and dividends whose introduction had been announced on December 4, 1971 was put into effect for one year. Permission to remit profits and dividends by subsidiaries or branches of companies whose head offices were situated outside Zambia was granted only when they did not exceed 30 per cent of the non- resident share of the equity capital and provided the 30 per cent did not exceed one half of the net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies. September 12. Remittances of rents to nonresidents were for one year restricted to a max imum of 50 per cent of the net annual rental income as certified by a professional appraiser. October 13. In view of the recent changes in U. K. exchange control, and pending the issuance of formal amendments to Zambia's Exchange Control Instructions, 1967 and the exchange control circulars issued under it, authorized dealers were informed that henceforth no differentiation would be made between former or pres- ent Scheduled Area countries (Sterling Area countries) and the rest of the world. All transactions which pre- viously could be approved by authorized dealers without reference to the Bank of Zambia by virtue of the coun- try involved being w i th in the Sterling Area now had to be referred to the exchange control authorities. Sched- uled Area Accounts were redesignated as External Accounts. The prescription of currency was amended accordingly. The position of transactions with Rhodesia and the rules governing Rhodesian Accounts were unchanged. 550 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Principal Features of Member (as at December 31, 1972 r~i i i i i i i i i i i r ~ ii i h i i i £? d o. 3 «> «*-( O 2 tf ° * - 1 = I I 15 11111! 1111 1 i S1 I! 1 1« i 1 * 1 11 <2? -2P 2? 3 s - gg c3 T> o o 2 3 d o3 S § x: -c ,c o o o x* < < < < < CQ pq « « « « « « f f l O U U U U U U < J u uQ 1. Article VIII status - - x x x - - - x x - - - - - x - - - -~ - x - - 2. Article X IV status x x - - - - - x - - x x x x x - x x x xx x - xx 3. P ar value or central rate exists x - x x x - - x x x x x x x - x - - x x x - x x- 4. P ar value or central rate applied _ _ _ _Xx - 5. Effective rate other than par value or central rate applicable to all or most transactions ( a) fixed rate - -x xx — xx — — — — — x— — - x- ' v v Y Y - X - - -X- - - - - - - - x _ x x - - - x - - .x ( b) f l u c t u a t i ng rate _ _ _ - _ _xX - - - - - -- x - - - - -- _ _ __ _ _x_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _x_ _ _ _ _ _ - -_ _ _ _ __ ( c) pegged rate 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or a ll invisibles x xx — — — x— x — — x — — x — x x x - x x x -x 7. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) x _x — — — — — — — — x — — — — x — x -x - x -- 8. More than o ne rate f or imports x - x -- — — — — — — — — — — x — x -x _x-- 9. More than o ne rate f or exports x — x — — — — — — — — x- — — — — — x -x - x -- 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions2 — XX — X - XX — — - X X X -— — - X X X - X X- 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions2*3 1 2. Prescription of currency - X X X X - X X - - X X X X X - X X X XX X - XX x x x - x - x x x x x x x x x -x x x x x | x | - | x |x 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with members xx — — x — x— — — — x — — — - — — — — x — - x - 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with nonmembers xx — — x — x — — x — x — -- — - x x -x x x x- 1 5. Import surcharges _ _x _ _ _ _ __ x_x_ _ _ _ _ __ _x_ |x-- 1 6. Advance import deposits x_x_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _x_ __ _x x x| ~ | ~ ~ | ~ |~ 17. Surrender of export proceeds required I x x x x - - x x - x x x x x x -x x x xx x x | x |x 1 8. Part of larger monetary area4 -- — x — x xx — — x- — — x — x x~ ~ ~ ~ ~ |x| |xx 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation5 - - x x x - - x x x x x - x x -x x x -x x x -x For key and footnotes, see page 556. 552 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— O J x l x i i x i x x " I I ! I I I I I x x i x D e n m r a k 6 I l x x x I x i x x I x x I I I I x x i x D o m i n i n a c R e b u p i l c x l x x i x x x l I i x x x I i x i x i x E c r o d a u x i x i x x x x x x x x x x i i x i x x i E p y g t x i x x x i i x x x I I I I I I I x x i x E l r o d a v a S l I I x I I I x x x x I I I x l l x l i x i E a u q t a r o i l G n u i a e I I x I I I I x x x I I I I I I I x x x i E t a p o h i i I x x I I I I x x i i l l I l x i i l I x F i j i x I x l l x x x x | I I I l I I I x x x i d n a n F i l x x x I I I I x x | I I I x I I I x x i x F n a r e c x x x i l l l x x i I I I x l l x l i x i G n o b a I x x i l l l x x x I I I l i x i i x x i T h e G a m a b i x i i i l l l I I i I I I l I I I x x i x G r e m y n a , F e d . R e p . o f I x x i x x x x x x I I I l l l x i x x i G a n a h x i x x i x x x x x i l l l I I I x x x i G e c e e r x l x l x i i x x x I I I l I I I x x i x G a u t e m a a l x I x i x x x x x x l l x l l l x l i x i G n u i a e x x x i x i i i x x I I I l l x i i x i x G a n a y u i I I i x i i i x i i l l l I I I x x i x H a i t i x i i i l l l t i l I I I l I I I x x i x H u d n o a r s l x i i l l l l i l I I I i I I I x x i x H g n o K g n o 6 x x x i x x i x x x I I I l I I I x x x i d n a e c I l I x x i x x x x x x I I I l 1 1 * i x x i I a d n i x i x x x i i x i i x i x i x i i l i x i I n o d n s e i a x i x x x x x x x x I I I l I I I x x x i n a r I x I x i x x x x x x I I I i I I I x x x i q a r I x x x i l l I x x i I I I x I x i i x i x e r I l d n a 6 I t i x x x x x x x I I I l I I I x x x i r s I e a l x i x i l l l x x i I I I x 1 1 * i x i x t I a l y 7 x x x I I I I x x i I I I x l l x l i x i I y r o v C a o t s x x x i l l l i x x I I I I I x l i x l x a J m a c a i l i l I I I l i x i I I I I I I I x x i x n a p a J x x x i x i x x x x I I I l I I I x x x i r o J n a d x x x I I I l x x x I I I l I I I x x x i K e a y n I? r o* <P3C L > o " _ o 3 oo T 8o?< 8O O l l < ^ ' s e i r t n u o C 1 s m e t s y S e v i t c i r t s e R ) d e t a t s e s i w r e h t o s s e l n u ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Principal Features of Member (as at December 31, 1972 .a §• I | 3 I * g. 1 * < ,, 1 1 1" 1 liilllillllililill11|Iil 1. Article VIII status - - x - - - - - - - x - - - - x - - x x - x -- 2. Article X IV status x x - x x x x x x x - x x x x - x x - - x - xx 3. P ar value or central rate exists - — x - x x xx — x x -x — x x x x x x x x -x 4. P ar value or central rate applied 5. Effective rate other than par value or central rate applicable to all or most transactions ( a) fixed rate - - x - - x xx — - x - - - - x x -x ~"x x x~ ~ x - - - x - - - -x- -x_x_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _X- x - - - x - - - - x - - x - x -- x - - - -- ( b) f l u c t u a t i ng rate - ( c) pegged rate -x — — — — — - — - - - _ - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 6. Special iate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or a ll invisibles x- - x - - - - x - -x _ x x - - - x - - - x- 7. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) x- - x - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x -- 8. More than o ne rate f or imports 9. More than o ne rate f or exports x-— x _ _ — - -- — - -- — -- — — — - - - - -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions2 X X- — - - —X X X- — X OX — X X- — X - -X 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions2'3 X X - - - X - X X X X X X X X - X X X - X - XX 1 2. Prescription of currency x x - - - x - x x x x x x x x - x x x - - - xx 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with members _ _ _ _x — - — — — -x — _— X x- — — — — x x 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with nonmembers 1 5. Import surcharges x — - xx — - — -- — x — — — x x x— — - - -- - x - - x - - x - x x - - - - x - x - - - x -x 16. Advance import deposits xx — x — - — _ — - -_ — - — — — — — - - - ^ j-^ 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 1 8. Part of larger monetary area4 x x -x — x — x - - x - - x - x x x x x xx — xx — x x - xx - x x x x x x x - - - - - x - xx 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation5 _ _ _ __ xx — x — x x x x xx x — x x x x x- For key and footnotes, see page 556. 554 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S x ' I i I l x I x x i i l l i i l l x x i x N r o w y a * < < I x i i l l I 0 1 i I I x i i i x i I x i m O n a " ' i g , ~ ~ * ~ ~ x I x x x x x x x x l l I I I I x x x i P k a i t s n a ) ^ ! ~ —^— —^— . I I M i l l I I I I i l l I i l l x x i x P a n a m a x 1o i ! x x x I I i x x i i x I x i i i x x i P y a u g a r a i I x i x x i x x x i l l x l I x I x i x P r e P u r r e i O I x i x i l l i x x x x i x i x I I i x x i h P i l i n p p i s e x I x i i x x x x x i l l I i l l x x x i P r o t a g u l : I x I I I I I I i i i I I I I I I x i I I I Q a t a r - x I x i i x x x x x x x x x I I I I I x I R o m a n a i x I x x i i i x x x I I I I i l l x x x i w R a d n a I I I i l l i t i i i l l i i l l x x i x d u a S i A a b a r i x x x i i i x x x i i l i x l i x l l x i S e n a g e l I * x x i i x i x x x i l l i l x l i x x i S i a r r e L n o e e x x x i x x x x x i i l l i i l l x x i x e r o p a g n S i x I x i i x x x x x i l l i i l l x x x i o S m a i l a I * x x i i i i x x i i l l i i l l x x x i u o S t h A f r i a c I I x i i x x x x i i l l i i l l x x x i n a p S i I x x l i x x x , x x x x x ~ " x ~ J ~ " ~ ~ V ~ S r i L a k n a l i x x x x x x x x x i x i I l x i x x i n a d u S x i x i l l i x x i i l l i i l l x x i x u S r i a n m x x x i i i l x x l i l l i I I I x x x i S w z a l i d n a x i i l i x i x x i i l l i i l l x x i x S w e d e n x i x i x x x x x x x I x x x i i i x x i n a r y S i A b a r R e p . x x x i i i l x x x i l l i i l l x x x i T n a a n a z i x l x l i l l i x l i l l l I I I x x x i T a h l i d n a x x x i l i l x x i i l l x l l x i l x i T o g o x x x i i i i x x i i l l i i x i i x x i T r i d a d n i a d n T o g a b o x | X l | X x x x x i l l l I I I x x x i T n u i s i a x i x x x x x x x x x l x i I I I x x x i T u r k y e x x x i i i l x x x i l l i i l l x x x i U a d n a g I x i I I I I I I o I I I I l i x i i j l l U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e x x x i i i I x x i i l l x i x i i x i x U n t i e d K i o d g n m 6 l i i i l l i i i l i l l l I I I x x i x U n t i e d S t a t s e x x x i l l l x x _ I i l i x _ i l _ _ _ ^ l l x i U p p r e V o t l a u i n ^ • — — — — — — — — Principal Features of Member Countries' Restrictive Systems1 (as at December 31, 1972 unless otherwise stated) I I I I I I I |i| i f! * e I | I -0 I I ! ! I J .A±_£^ .£ lAA _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status JL JL JL. _L JL JL JL JL JL Key and Footnotes 3. Par value or central rate exists ^ Z Z Z Z Z Z ZZ 4. P ar value or central rate applied _ _ _ _ _Xx xx does not exist' and ° indicates that position is undetermined. X indicates that Practice exists; ~ indicates that Practice 5' vafue'ofcentrai1r^ea^bSie to all or most transactions (a) fixed rate (b) fluctuating rate ( " - - - x - - - -- _ I _ _ I _ J L _ l J L _ L _ L _ I_ ~ ' Practices indicated as existinS do not necessarily apply to all transactions. •* Payments to member countries. Restrictions in the form of quantitative limits or undue delay other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. 