 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 1991 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1991 International Monetary Fund Price: US$39.50 (US$20.00 to full-time university faculty members and students) Address orders to: International Monetary Fund Publication Services Unit Washington, D.C. 20431 U.S.A. The Library of Congress has cataloged this serial publication as follows: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979 — Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.751 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-179-X ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 10, 1991 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1991, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director ill ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Preface Introduction , Page vii 1 Afghanistan Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Aruba Australia Austria Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote d'lvoire Cyprus Czech and Slovak Federal Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea , Page 3 Ethiopia 6 Fiji 11 Finland 13 France 15 Gabon 19 Gambia, The 21 Germany 25 Ghana 28 Greece 32 Grenada 34 Guatemala 41 Guinea 45 Guinea-Bissau 48 Guyana 50 Haiti 54 Honduras 55 Hong Kong , 58 Hungary 60 Iceland 67 India 71 Indonesia 76 Iran, Islamic Republic of 80 Iraq 85 Ireland 87 Israel 89 Italy 93 Jamaica 97 Japan 101 Jordan 110 Kampuchea, Democratic* 117 Kenya 119 Kiribati 122 Korea 125 Kuwait 129 Lao People's Democratic Republic 133 Lebanon 136 Lesotho 139 Liberia 140 Libyan Arab Jamahiriya 142 Madagascar 145 Page 163 166 169 172 178 182 184 187 191 194 197 199 202 204 208 210 214 216 222 225 237 242 246 249 253 257 260 265 269 272 276 277 281 284 286 288 290 292 295 150 156 160 *The IMF has not received from the authorities of Democratic Kampuchea the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1990. V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VI CONTENTS Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Page 299 302 306 308 311 315 318 321 326 331 334 338 341 345 348 350 353 355 359 364 367 369 378 380 383 385 391 401 408 413 415 419 422 424 426 428 430 432 436 438 Singapore Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Uganda United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Western Samoa Yemen, Republic of Yugoslavia Zaire Zambia Zimbabwe Appendix. EEC: Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated During 1990 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries List of Abbreviations Page 442 444 446 449 454 459 465 469 473 475 478 480 485 488 492 496 497 501 508 513 517 519 522 532 535 537 541 544 546 549 554 559 563 569 579 586 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published annually by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of official visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The project is coordinated in the Exchange Systems Surveillance Division of the Exchange and Trade Relations Department. It draws on the specialized contributions of staff of that Department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff mem- bers of the IMF's five Area Departments, together with staff of other Departments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The Report provides a detailed description of the exchange and trade systems of individual member countries, including a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong), for which the United Kingdom has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement. The exchange and trade sys- tem of Switzerland, which has applied for member- ship in the IMF, is also described. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 1990, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place in early 1991. A standardized approach has been followed, un- der which the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chron- ologically the more significant changes during 1990. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involv- ing exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and ju- risdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as im- port licensing, advance deposit requirements, im- port surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section Changes During 1990 includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on in- ternational transactions but are not necessarily re- flected in the body of the country descriptions, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments in regional cooperation. The description given in the section Exchange Ar- rangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have fur- nished to the IMF under Article IV, Section 2(a). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 28 or 31, 1990, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the cur- rency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries. Where a country has con- cluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to pre- scription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agree- ments are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Nonresident Accounts, and, in some in- stances, External Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, maintained in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as residents of that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import-licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements im- posed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general li- cense" indicates arrangements whereby certain im- ports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing require- ments, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be given either freely, or restrictively, according to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transac- tions in invisibles are described briefly, together with any limitations on the exportation of foreign and domestic bank notes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invis- ibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export-licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surren- dered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or ex- change dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries, there is a requirement that such ex- change or part thereof be sold in a free market. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 INTRODUCTION Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any regulations governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the im- portation of foreign and domestic bank notes are described. In the section on Capital, the special arrangements or limitations attached to international capital move- ments are described. Where regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usu- ally dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the princi- pal regulations that govern the holding, negotiation, importation, and exportation of gold coins and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) maintains an official rate that is applied to (1) a few transactions of the Central Government (mainly debt-service payments); (2) certain foreign currency income earned in Afghanistan (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below); and (3) some transactions in accounting units specified under bilateral pay- ments agreements. The official exchange rate is de- fined in terms of the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1990, the official exchange rate was Af 50.00 = US$1 buying and Af 51.20 = US$1 selling, respectively. Aside from the official rate, there also exists a market-determined rate that prevails in the money bazaar, and a commercial rate set by the Govern- ment (introduced in July 1988). On December 31, 1990, the commercial rate was Af 707.5 = US$1 buying and Af 708.5 = US$1 selling, respectively. Between May and December 1989 there was sig- nificant liberalization of the previously complex sys- tem of multiple currency practices and exchange restrictions. Different mixed rates that had applied to proceeds in convertible currencies for nine princi- pal exports were abolished, and proceeds from ex- ports in convertible currencies were shifted to the commercial rate. The commercial rate was not closely linked to the free rate. Since December 1, 1989, the spread between the commercial and the free rates has been kept to about 2 percent. Since December 1, 1989, most public sector transactions, with the exception of debt servicing, were moved to the commercial rate. The official exchange rate now applies to no more than 10 percent of convertible currency transactions. Exchange rates for trade un- der bilateral payments agreements are determined under each agreement (see section on Prescription of Currency, below). Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. It charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official and the commercial banking sectors. official restrictions are applied to transactions in the free market. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghan- istan has bilateral payments agreements1 must be made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all coun- tries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not -subject to license, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. The importation of a few items (e.g., certain drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are prohibited on grounds of public policy or for se- curity reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restric- tions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. An annual import program is drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce, covering imports of both the public and private sec- tors. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made in the light of changing circumstances. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is indicative. Importation of petroleum products is a state monopoly. The present customs tariff structure, promul- gated in June 1974, was little changed until May 1989. At that time, tariff rates on most con- sumer items were adjusted upward from their for- mer range of about 20-35 percent to 30-50 percent. Payments for imports through the banking sys- tem to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an undertaking Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. No 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, and the U.S.S.R. The agreements with the People's Re- public of China and Hungary have been inactive for several years. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 AFGHANISTAN by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the govern- ment budget, all importers are required to lodge minimum import deposits with banks at the time of opening letters of credit; in January 1990 the deposit ratios, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, were adjusted downward from 25 percent to 20 percent for essential products and upward from a range of 20-50 percent to a range of 30-60 percent for other products. Payments for Invisibles The maximum amount that can be taken out of the country for tourist travel abroad is the equiv- alent of US$1,000 a trip except for travel to India, for which the limit is the equivalent of US$700. On application, foreign exchange is allocated for busi- ness travel and for medical treatment abroad, and the amounts are determined by the Da Afghanistan Bank; normally the limits are US$15,000 and US$2,000, respectively. Foreign exchange for other private purposes may be acquired in the bazaar market. The central bank levies a charge of Af 0.50 per US$1 for permits that approve the export of convertible currency by authorized travelers. Trav- elers may take out not more than Af 2,000 in domes- tic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to li- cense, but export transactions must be registered. The exportation of a few products (e.g., opium and museum pieces) is prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Pay- ments, above). Export proceeds from bilateral ac- counts may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar accounts with Da Afghanistan Bank. These re- tained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the clearing rate applicable to that particular bilateral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trading in con- vertible currencies, export proceeds may be re- tained abroad for 3, 6, or 12 months, depending on the country of destination. During the relevant period, the exporter may use these funds to import any good other than those included in the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, at the end of the relevant holding period limit, the foreign exchange holdings abroad must be repatriated, and held in a foreign currency account with a bank in Afghan- istan, or sold at the commercial rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Sixty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afghanis at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghanistan are required to spend a minimum of the equivalent of US$26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any unspent amount on departure, subject to the above minimum conversion requirement. Trav- elers may bring in no more than Af 2,000 in domes- tic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by an Investment Committee. The Foreign and Domestic Private In- vestment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4,1974), which is currently under revision, provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on divi- dends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, pro- vided that the products are permitted to be ex- ported; and (6) mandatory purchases by govern- ment agencies and departments of their require- ments from enterprises established under the law where prices of such products are not more than 15 percent higher than prices of foreign supplies. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghanistan can take place only through joint ven- tures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49 percent. It also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall re- quire no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN 5 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell do- mestically gold in any form. Imports and re-exports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Ex- ports of gold bullion and silver, as well as of jewelry, require permission of Da Afghanistan Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments January 15. The minimum import deposit ratio was reduced from 25 percent to 20 percent in re- spect of essential products and was increased from a range of 25-50 percent to 30-60 percent in respect of other products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and other specified cur- rencies1 are established by the Bank of Algeria partly on the basis of a relationship between the dinar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative importance of payments, including capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. The Bank of Algeria frequently adjusts this rate to reflect its domestic economic objectives. A margin of DA 0.015 has been estab- lished between the buying and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 10.476 = US$1 and DA 10.497 = US$1, respectively. Foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Bank of Algeria; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign corre- spondents at the end of each day but, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for doc- umentary credits outside Algeria. There are no ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control The Bank of Algeria has general jurisdiction over exchange control. It formulates exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their applica- tion by the authorized banks. Authority over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to five commercial banks and the Postal Administra- tion. Foreign trade is carried out within the framework of an indicative foreign exchange alloca- tion system formulated by the Ministry of Economy and the Bank of Algeria, and administered by the commercial banks. Investment of foreign capital must be approved by the Council for Money and Credit, and investments in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria must be approved by the National Invest- ment Committee to benefit from the Investment Code. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no pay- ments agreements are in force are made in convert- ible currencies.2 Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fournitures) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the mer- chandise, except that transactions with Morocco can be effected in U.S. dollars through special clearing accounts maintained at the central banks of the respective countries. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which payments are made by the Al- gerian contracting party; such accounts must be closed within six months of the end of the contract, beyond which date outward transfers of the funds or their use for purposes unrelated to the contracts are not permitted. All payments in Algeria involv- ing goods traded by concessionaries and whole- salers, except for goods sold to consumers by re- tailers associated with wholesalers, may be effected in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Ac- counts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: 1. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Balances in such ac- counts opened before January 1, 1975 by nonresi- dent physical persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC accounts) may be opened by individuals or juridical persons of foreign nationality, including those un- der supply or servicing contract arrangements. Such accounts may be credited only with deposits that, under the regulations applicable when the deposit is made, are free from any restrictions on transfer. They may not be credited with amounts that are transferable to the bilateral area. They may be debited for payments to any foreign country, for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Central Bank of Tunisia. 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 7 payments in Algeria, or for the provision of foreign bank notes that the account holder intends to export when he travels abroad. These accounts bear inter- est and may not show a net debt position. 3. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, with- out prior authorization, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, not of Algerian na- tionality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to the country of origin. These accounts may be cred- ited freely with an amount equivalent to the hold- ings on October 20, 1963 in the account of the per- son concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individual approval. 4. Foreign Currency Accounts (comptes devises) may be opened by physical or juridical Algerian na- tionals resident in Algeria or by nonresident Al- gerian nationals who have resided for more than six months in a foreign country. Such accounts may be freely credited with (1) book transfers of convert- ible currencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, (2) imported convertible foreign currencies that have been declared at the time of the account holder's entry into the country, and (3) do- mestic bank-to-bank book transfers. The accounts may be freely debited for book transfers abroad but only through the banking sytem; they may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of convertible foreign currencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the Central Bank of Algeria. Since 1990, economic entities have also been able to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, including the retained proportion of their export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these ac- counts to other foreign currency accounts, or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make for- eign payments for goods and services pertaining to their business. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. In accordance with Law No. 88/29 of July 19,1988, the Government exercises a monopoly over foreign trade by granting concessions to public economic enterprises, public agencies, and specific groups. Concessionaries and wholesalers are also eligible to import, for resale purposes, specific cate- gories of products. In principle, all import opera- tions using official foreign exchange are carried out within the framework of a foreign exchange alloca- tion system, under which the Government estab- lishes indicative allocations with respect to banks for (1) public economic enterprises for their own requirements, (2) foreign trade offices for resale, (3) concessionaries for pharmaceutical products and inputs for the agricultural sector, and (4) the National Chamber of Commerce (NCC) for the pri- vate sector as a whole to cover its needs. The NCC must approve the importation of inputs and equip- ment by the private sector; it grants such approval only to those engaged in priority activities. Nev- ertheless, in certain cases, imports may be autho- rized through the issuance of import authorizations to public and private enterprises that enable them to import goods and services not covered by the for- eign exchange allocation. The indicative plan for foreign exchange allocation is formulated on a mul- tiyear basis, based on an enterprise's medium-term plan or on its economic activity. It includes (1) reve- nue (e.g., export receipts and external loan re- ceipts), (2) expenditure (import payments and re- payment of external loans), and (3) short- and medium-term borrowing objectives. In priority cases, the Government may grant an enterprise the right to exchange more foreign cur- rency than it takes in to cover necessary operations. For certain products (cereals, semolina, and coffee), the exchange right is expressed in terms of the quantities needed for consumption, while for other products, it is expressed in terms of dinar value (e.g., pharmaceuticals). An enterprise that holds a foreign exchange allocation may use it freely for its current operations and is subject to no further a priori administrative and financial control for- malities. Financing arrangements for all imports fi- nanced with credits of more than 90 days must be approved in advance by the Committee for External Borrowing, chaired by the Governor of the Bank of Algeria. In general, imports valued at less than US$2 million must be paid for in cash or with credits of up to 90 days, unless covered by an existing bilateral line of credit. Imports of capital goods val- ued at less than US$2 million and financed with concessional medium-term bilateral credits do not require the Committee's advance approval. Import-supporting documents must be pre- sented to the bank through which the payments relating to the transaction must be paid. Except as otherwise indicated by the exchange control au- thorities (the Bank of Algeria), down payments may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 ALGERIA not exceed 15 percent of the total value of an import operation. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of Au- gust 3, 1980, imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. When a public agency, public enterprise, or ministry is effecting expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payments before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Special regulations apply to imports that do not require the use of official foreign exchange (importa- tions sans paiements). Capital goods and spare parts, and personal effects with values of less than DA 10,000 may be imported without being subject to any prior formalities or any reporting require- ments regarding the source of the foreign exchange used, but applicable taxes must be paid. The list of items that may be imported is prepared periodically by ministerial decree; it excludes finished consumer goods, except for personal effects. During 1990, a new system of concessionaries and wholesalers was introduced to increase the availability and standardization of imported goods for resale, and to raise the value added in Algeria, including after-sales service and production. These entities are permitted, by the Council for Money and Credit, to import and resell items in Algeria relating to their approved activity without restric- tions. They may sell their products in Algeria for convertible currencies, except in the case of retailers associated with a wholesaler, who must sell their products to consumers in domestic currency. An enterprise that obtains foreign exchange at the offi- cial rate may use its foreign exchange for such pur- chases. All transactions of concessionaries and wholesalers must be handled through a foreign cur- rency account, and profits earned from foreign in- vestment may be freely repatriated. When more than two concessionaries or wholesalers are operat- ing in an activity, all imports must be channeled through these concessionaries or wholesalers, whether or not they use official foreign exchange. The initial list of goods eligible for importation by these entities includes motor vehicles and motorcy- cles, materials used in agriculture, fishing, electric and electronic household appliances, heating and air conditioning equipment, pharmaceutical and child care products, and most spare parts. Payments for Invisibles The Bank of Algeria must approve all payments for invisibles to all countries. When supporting doc- uments are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to spec- ified limits for certain payments, such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and mar- itime contracts, (2) business or official travel ex- penses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) ed- ucational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the Central Bank or the Minis- try of Economy must authorize the granting of ex- change. Public enterprises may use foreign ex- change allocations freely for payments for specified invisibles, including transportation and other ser- vices contracted abroad. The transfer of family re- mittances is suspended. The premiums for insur- ance on all risks arranged in Algeria by Algerian residents must be paid in Algeria. Public and pri- vate sector national exporters may open EDAC ac- counts (i.e., Exporters' Convertible Dinar Ac- counts) denominated in convertible dinars, which can be credited with up to 10 percent of repatriated proceeds and be used for any of the following pay- ments: business travel allowances; air travel expen- ditures; salaries and expenditures of foreign techni- cians; imports of essential spare parts and capital goods amounting to less than DA 200,000; represen- tation costs at overseas trade fairs and exhibitions; and legal and administrative expenses. Residents of other countries working in Algeria, under technical cooperation programs, for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed com- panies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries, as follows: 50 percent for single persons and married persons whose families are in Algeria, and 70 percent for persons whose families are abroad. For other workers who have contracts with other employers and hold the necessary employ- ment documents, the amounts that may be trans- ferred are 35 percent for single persons and married persons whose families are in Algeria, and 55 per- cent for persons whose families are abroad. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the previous month's remuneration. Per- sons making such transfers are not entitled to al- locations for other personal transfers. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism abroad by Algerian residents were suspended in Octo- ber 1988. Residents requiring medical treatment abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance equal to DA 800 if the patient is over 15 years and DA 400 if the patient is under 15 years. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Al- geria may, when returning abroad, re-export for- eign exchange that was freely imported and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an al- lowance in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 9 form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar baftk notes up to DA 50 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may also re- export any foreign currency declared upon entry. However, on their arrival in Algeria, foreign non- residents must convert foreign exchange equivalent to a minimum of DA 1,000. Travel tickets that are bought by nonresidents for travel abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and machinery, livestock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are pro- hibited regardless of destination. All proceeds from exports of crude and refined hydrocarbons, by- products from gas, and mineral products must be surrendered. Exporters of other products may re- tain a specified proportion of their export earnings in a Foreign Currency Account, as follows: export- ers of major services, 10 percent; Algerian tourist operators and wine exporters, 20 percent; exporters of other agricultural and fisheries products, 50 per- cent; and other exporters, 100 percent. Entities may use these funds for imports or other payments per- taining to their business or they may transfer the funds to another Foreign Currency Account. Non- hydrocarbon exports may take advantage of certain incentive measures granted by the Government, including, for example, (1) exemption from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and the flat- rate levy on the wage bill, and (2) export promotion assistance (AMPEX). Sales on consignment must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and must always be registered before customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immediately after they are collected. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the basis of a contractual price for each barrel, which is fixed by agreement with the companies con- cerned. For one petroleum company holding min- eral rights, however, there are different repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the impor- tation of foreign bank notes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresi- dents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Nonresident Algerian nationals must convert at least the equivalent of DA 3,500 a year upon enter- ing into Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire cap- ital assets outside Algeria. The Committee for Ex- ternal Borrowing administered by the Bank of Al- geria must approve in advance all borrowing abroad or from nonresidents. The Law of Money and Credit of April 14, 1990 provides for state guarantees in respect of borrow- ing investments in accordance with the interna- tional codes and agreements ratified by Algeria in all areas except those expressly reserved for the State. Repatriation in respect of the sale or liquida- tion proceeds from invested foreign capital is guar- anteed. The Law also provides that profit remit- tances on such investments will be permitted, provided that documentation requirements on tax payments are met. Tax facilities may be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. The law on joint ventures with foreign com- panies, which came into effect in April 1982, provides foreign partners with a guarantee of fair return on investment, tax exemptions of up to five years on industrial and commercial profits, reduced taxes on reinvested profits, and the repatriation of earnings and royalties in respect of transfers of technology. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordi- nance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence nationale pour la distribution et la trans- formation de Tor et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to pur- chase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and dis- tribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Gold for use by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 ALGERIA dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR un- der import licenses issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy and the Central Bank. Gold and other precious metals are included in the list of items importable by concessionaries. Changes During 1990 Administration of Control April 14. Under the Law of Money and Credit, the Bank of Algeria was made responsible for external debt management. Nonresident Accounts Septembers. Under Bank of Algeria Regulation 90- 02, economic entities became eligible to open for- eign currency accounts in Algerian banks; pre- viously only individuals were permitted to do so. Imports and Import Payments August 20. The system of concessionaries and wholesalers was introduced. For a specified range of activities, approved entities were permitted to import without restriction goods for resale in Al- geria and receive payments in foreign currencies. cent for tourism operators and wine exporters; 50 percent for exporters of other agricultural and fisheries products; and 100 percent for exporters of all other goods, except hydrocarbon and mineral products, the ratio for which remained at zero and for transport and financial services for which the ratio remained at 10 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles August 11. Under the Supplementary Finance Law, nonresident Algerian nationals were required to convert at least DA 3,500 a year upon entering Algeria. Capital April 14. The restrictions on foreign investments were liberalized, permitting investments in all areas that are not expressly reserved for the state. Re- patriation of capital and profits was allowed, subject to the international agreements ratified by Algeria. Gold Exports and Export Proceeds September 8. The retention ratios for Foreign Cur- rency Accounts were increased as follows: 20 per- August 20. Gold and other precious metals be- came eligible for importation by approved conces- sionaries or wholesalers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Angola is the New Kwanza (plu- ral New Kwanzas), which replaced the Kwanza at par on September 25, 1990. Since May 1976, the currency of Angola has been pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, and at the end of December 31, 1990, the ex- change rate was at Kz 29.918 = US$1. The National Bank of Angola applies a margin of 1 percent to both its buying and selling transactions. Exchange rates for 17 other currencies1 are established using the weekly average cross rates of the currencies con- cerned on the New York, Frankfurt, Paris, London, Brussels, and Zurich markets on the basis of a for- mula that projects exchange rate changes in the following week. This formula takes into account the changes in cross rates during the preceding week. Buying and selling margins for cash transactions are set at 3-4 percent, depending on the currency. The exchange rates published each Friday in the Bulletin of the National Bank of Angola are valid for seven days beginning the following Monday. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or commercial banking sector. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget is prepared annually by the Ministry of Planning with the assistance of the National Bank of Angola, the Ministry of Fi- nance, and the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum. All imports and exports are subject to licensing. Foreign exchange transactions are effected through the National Bank of Angola, which serves both as the central bank and the authorized bank for foreign transactions. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The National Bank of Angola prescribes the cur- rencies to be used for imports, depending upon the country with which transactions are to be carried out. The currencies are usually those of the export- ing countries or the U.S. dollar. Angola had a bilat- 1 Austrian shillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and ECUs. eral payments agreement with the German Demo- cratic Republic, which is being renegotiated with Germany. Bilateral settlement arrangements, which do not contain bilateral payments features, are maintained with Brazil and Spain. These ar- rangements utilize single accounts through which monthly balances can be used without restriction for transactions with third countries. Resident and Nonresident Accounts With the prior authorization of the National Bank of Angola, resident enterprises in Angola may maintain foreign exchange accounts. Transactions through these accounts are subject to the prior au- thorization of the National Bank of Angola. Nonresi- dents may maintain accounts in new kwanzas, pro- vided that the funds are transferred from abroad. Ex-residents may also hold accounts in new kwanzas, but they may withdraw funds on these accounts only to cover expenses during their stay in Angola. Nonresidents with established businesses in Angola may hold foreign exchange accounts sub- ject to the prior authorization of the National Bank of Angola. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All other imports are subject to licensing, with limits established under the import plan and subject to the availability of foreign exchange. Licenses may be obtained only by registered enterprises of proven technical, commercial, and financial capacity. Li- censes are issued on the basis of a foreign exchange allocation and are restricted to imports of goods for which the enterprise is registered. To obtain a li- cense, enterprises must present to the sectoral min- istries and the Ministry of Commerce offers of three foreign suppliers. The approved offer may be con- sidered for an import license application, which in turn must be approved by the same ministries. Im- port licenses specify the importer; the supplier; the intermediary; the product by its Brussels nomencla- ture classification, volume, and unit price; the trans- port and insurance companies; the costs; the method of payments; and the currency of payment. Import licenses are valid for 180 days after issuance and may be extended once for an additional 180 days. A license fee of 0.1 percent of the import value 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 ANGOLA is levied. Import licenses are also required for statis- tical purposes even if foreign exchange is not re- quested. Imports of capital goods must be financed partly by medium-term foreign financing. Payments for Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to licensing. Preferential treatment is given to domes- tic air and sea transportation, and imports not in- sured domestically are approved only in exceptional cases. Exchange allowances for private travel are granted only in certain cases. A maximum daily allowance of US$200 is granted for approved busi- ness travel for up to 10 days. Up to the equivalent of Kz 50,000 may be granted for purposes of medical treatment abroad. Allowances in excess of these limits are granted on a case-by-case basis. Education travel expenses are normally expected to be covered by scholarships, but an additional Kz 8,000 a year may be allotted. An allowance for tourism purposes of US$500-US$1,000 may be made available in ex- ceptional cases, but it is granted at most once every four years. The exportation and importation of do- mestic currency are prohibited. Exports and Exports Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited as are exports of certain goods.2 Re-exports of goods other than equipment and personal belongings are also prohibited. Restrictions also apply to the exporta- tion of products that are in short domestic supply. All other exports are subject to licensing. Licenses may be obtained by registered enterprises, and pro- ceeds must be collected within 30 days of shipment and surrendered to the National Bank of Angola. Certain foreign enterprises (currently oil com- panies) are required to surrender only a proportion of export receipts and to retain the remainder to cover production costs. Proceeds from Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to the approval of the National Bank of Angola. The sectoral ministries supervise the execution of con- tracts. All proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank of Angola within 30 days of receipt. Capital All capital transfers are subject to licensing and control. The Foreign Investment Law of July 1988 prohibits foreign investment in strategic sectors3 and direct investment abroad by residents. Direct foreign investments in the oil sector are encour- aged. Dividends and capital may be repatriated upon liquidation, with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Transfers of personal capital, such as inheritances, dowries, savings from wages and salaries, and proceeds from sales of personal property, are permitted only on a case-by-case basis. Gold Imports and exports of gold are the monopoly of the National Bank of Angola. Residents are permit- ted to hold gold only in the form of jewelry. Changes during 1990 Exchange Arrangement 2Arms and ammunition, ethnological collections, ships, os- trich products, cattle, and ivory products. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, historical objects, minerals and mineral products, toxic substances, cotton, rice, pork meat, coffee, cereals, wood and wood products, tobacco, and oil. September 25. The kwanza was replaced by the new kwanza at par. 3Defense, law and order, education, health, utilities, com- munications, and transport infrastructure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with commercial banks were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Antigua and Barbuda formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 22, 1983. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all currencies and is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are required for a range of products, par- ticularly those subject to export duties. Import li- censes are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Commerce, depending on the type of commodity. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Carib- bean dollars. Settlements involving South African currency are not permitted. irThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Domin- ica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained in any currency. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, such accounts may also be opened by resident individuals or firms especially in tourist-oriented industries or in export trades where most receipts are in foreign currency and a large portion of inputs are imported or are financed in foreign currency. External accounts can be credited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are re- quired to report external accounts operations to the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the Ministry of Trade. Certain other commodities require individual li- censes, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for autho- rized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Imports that are exempt from import duties in- clude basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemptions for machinery, equipment, and raw ma- terials are granted on a case-by-case basis and gen- erally under the Fiscal Incentives Act 1975 and the Hotel Incentives Act. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Upon presentation of sup- porting documents, and with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$750 a trip outside the ECCB area; however, this limit may be exceeded with permission from the Ministry of Finance. In terms of CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical reasons. Official authori- zation is required for amounts exceeding these limits. Foreign exchange allowances for education, 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA family maintenance, medical treatment, and remit- tances of earnings by foreign workers are approved on a case-by-case basis. Profits on foreign direct investment may be remitted in full, subject to con- firmation by the Commission of Inland Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. Surrender of export proceeds is not required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if they take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. For- eign currency coins are not normally exchanged. Checks and drafts in U.S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; for amounts over US$1,000, Ministry of Finance approval must be obtained. Levy exemptions for transfers, especially for charity purposes, are usu- ally granted. Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital movements. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on the importation of gold. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments August 4. General agreement was reached with other members of CARICOM on a new tariff schedule under the Common External Tariff (CET) of the Caribbean Common Market. The CET is expected to be implemented in the second half of 1991. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Austral (plural Australes). Since December 18,1989, a unified float- ing exchange rate system has been in operation, and the exchange rate has been determined by market forces. On December 31,1990, the middle rate of the austral in terms of the U.S. dollar was A = 5,585 = US$1 (selling). Transactions are allowed in certain other curren- cies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on markets abroad. Swap transactions and forward exchange opera- tions are permitted under a new regime introduced on December 20,1989. The currency of the transac- tions and the rates may be freely negotiated. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this pur- pose. These authorized entities include banks, ex- change agencies, exchange houses, exchange of- fices, and financial companies; each of these types of institution is subject to separate regulations. Ar- rears are maintained with respect to external payments. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Argentina notified the Fund, on November 16, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency All payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the multilateral 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Pursuant to the Presidential Declaration and Energy Integration Protocol signed with the Government of Bolivia on December 13, 1989, for the purpose of making joint use of the energy resources of both countries, a fixed propor- tion of Argentina's payments for Bolivia's natural gas exports is made into a non-interest-bearing ac- count at the Central Bank of Argentina; it is used solely for purchases of goods and services of Argen- tine origin for the construction of the Rio Grande- Campo Santa Cruz gas pipeline, the gas treatment plant at Naranjillos, and the Palmar Grande-Camiri highway. Argentina maintains reciprocal credit ar- rangements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. by means of special accounts in each central bank through which transactions are settled. Transactions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. The Central Bank of Argentina maintains a special account with Ro- mania under which payments for imports of equip- ment and capital goods from Romania are offset with receipts from exports of certain products from Argentina. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in australes and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresi- dent, provided that the accounts are credited with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers be- tween accounts may be effected freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Import payments may be effected in convertible currencies, except as otherwise specified in the reg- ulations on prescription of currency. Settlement of payments for imports may be freely effected by au- thorized financial entities, and, since December 20, 1989, they have been carried out at the rate in the free exchange market, with no minimum financing requirement period. Imports and related payments by the public sector require the prior approval of the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, im- ports are subject to a stamp duty of 0.6 percent and to selective internal taxes ranging from 5 percent to 24 percent. 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ARGENTINA The "Sworn Declaration of Need to Import" is- sued by the National Import Directorate, which was required for most public and private sector imports, was abolished on July 20, 1990. The requirement that private sector importers who have obtained licenses from the Industry and Foreign Trade Secre- tariat must lodge with a bank a deposit in australes for 3 percent of the f.o.b. value declared on the "Sworn Declaration of Need to Import" was abol- ished concurrently. Consumer goods whose domestic production is sufficient and that are covered under List I of the Decree No. 4070/84 may not, in principle, be im- ported. (No goods, however, were placed on List I in 1989 and 1990.) The prohibition on the importation of goods on List I, when it applies, does not apply to temporary imports, goods included in the border traffic scheme, or samples and prototypes. The Sec- retary of Industry and Foreign Trade is empowered to grant import licenses for goods on List I when the item is considered necessary for scientific or techni- cal reasons, or in light of the quantity or quality of domestic production. Imports of goods on List II of Decree No. 4070/84 require the prior approval of the Secretary of Indus- try and Foreign Trade, who issues import licenses in consultation with an Honorary Import Advisory Committee on which both government institutions and competent commercial and industrial organiza- tions are represented. The goods on List II include a range of consumer goods and industrial inputs for which close substitutes are available in Argentina. Goods imported under concessions granted by any instrument of the LAIA agreement are exempt from the prohibition applicable to goods on List I and the review requirement for goods on List II. Import licenses are issued automatically for goods covered under the Argentine-Uruguayan Economic Cooper- ation Agreement. Import licenses for certain raw materials and inputs for the pharmaceutical indus- try and for medical and health services (List III of Decree No. 4070/84) require the prior approval of the Ministry of Health and Social Action, and licenses for imports intended for national defense and for the security and police forces require the prior ap- proval of the Ministries of Defense or Interior. Import licenses are granted automatically for all goods not specifically covered by the foregoing provisions. The number of goods included on List II was further reduced during 1990. Countertrade is permitted for firms engaging in the exportation of promoted exports. In such cases, import payments can take the form of the exporta- tion of promoted goods. Payments for Invisibles Since December 20, 1989, the sale of foreign ex- change at the free exchange rate has been permitted for most invisible payments. Authorized entities may carry out most types of transactions without prior authorization from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Minimum export prices (reference prices) are es- tablished for many agricultural and livestock ex- ports as a basis for the payment of duties. A number of traditional exports (soybeans, beef, and pro- cessed hides) are subject to additional export taxes. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for re- bates of estimated indirect taxes paid in the process of production. Exports shipped through certain ports are eligible for additional rebates ranging from 7 percent to 12 percent. General export taxes levied on agricultural prod- ucts have been gradually reduced to an average of 11 percent in December. General export taxes on industrial manufactured products were eliminated, and those on nontraditional products were reduced to 10 percent in June 1990. Many exports, particularly nontraditional ex- ports, are eligible for various other export incen- tives, although a number of schemes have been suspended since July 1989. The Central Bank has established prefinancing and financing regimes when credits are obtained using external funds. These regimes are applied to exporters by the par- ticipating banks to promote exports of certain goods and services. The prefinancing regime using BCRA funds has been suspended since January 1, 1990, except for operations already begun by the date, with funds from all the regimes being lent as they are collected from their own portfolios. The financing system for promoted exports re- quires insurance coverage of all operations against extraordinary risks or credit risk; it is provided by the Argentine Export Credit Insurance Company, Inc. (CASCE) for the account of the National Gov- ernment. These credit documents must also be en- dorsed by a highly rated foreign bank, or the opera- tion must be covered by export credit insurance against commercial risk provided by the CASCE or another company. Certain products, mostly non- traditional exports, may be shipped on consignment for 360 days; if not sold within that period, the goods must be returned to Argentina. Various export incentives are provided for pro- moted exports in accordance with the Export Pro- motion Laws of December 16,1984. These include ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 17 (1) a deduction from taxable profits, up to 10 per- cent of the value of certain exports; (2) the crea- tion of export consortia and cooperatives and the granting of an incentive equal to 4 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports over a period of five years; (3) the establishment of international trading companies; (4) permission for firms to engage in countertrade when marketing promoted exports; (5) a tax drawback scheme under which rebates would be allowed for taxes of imported inputs and other taxes; (6) the elimination of the 0.5 percent stamp tax for exports from the Federal Capital Area; and (7) the fund ing of an Export Promotion Fund to finance participation in trade fairs and exhibitions. All these incentives have, however, been formally suspended since September 15, 1989 under the Economic Emergency Law. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency receipts obtained from private sector invisible transactions need not be surren- dered to the Central Bank, but may be sold in the exchange market. Domestic and foreign bank notes entering and leaving the country are not subject to any exchange requirement, nor are gold coins or "good-delivery" gold bars. Capital Since December 20,1989, proceeds from all loans have been transacted in the free exchange market. There are no conditions, on maturity dates or inter- est rates, for financial loans transacted through the free market. Principal and interest payments for loans may only be effected directly through autho- rized entities on the maturity date without prior central bank authorization. Since June 1981, borrowers for loans in foreign currency wishing to obtain an exchange rate guar- antee or a swap agreement from the Central Bank were required, as an essential condition, to obtain an extension of the original maturities for the terms as necessary. All loans outstanding and covered by a swap agreement with the Central Bank as of De- cember 4,1982, and all loans for which the domestic borrower has obtained an exchange rate guarantee from the Central Bank and which fell due through the end of 1985 have been extended under mini- mum terms established by the Central Bank. Loans covered by swap agreements that fell due in 1985 were rescheduled either by means of insurance on U.S. dollar-denominated obligations of the Central Bank (BCRA Notes) with a ten-year maturity, or by a direct refinancing between debtor and creditor for up to five years, followed by the issuance of a BCRA Note for the remainder of the period. Financial loans that benefited from any of the above- mentioned coverages were rescheduled as of Octo- ber 1987 by means of the issuance of U.S. dollar- denominated obligations with a 19-year maturity and a 7-year grace period. The inflow of financial loans undertaken by local foreign-owned enterprises and originating from foreign enterprises that either directly or indirectly control the borrowing enterprises or are their sub- sidiaries requires authorization from the Central Bank. Loans endorsed or guaranteed by the State also require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Banks may accept foreign currency sight or term deposits. Foreign borrowing by the public sec- tor is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of Octo- ber 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 24, 1975. Banks may accept sight and term deposits in foreign currency. The foreign investment regime is established by Law No. 23697—the "Economic Emergency" Law — passed on September 1, 1989 and promulgated by the National Executive Power on September 15, 1989. Chapter VI of the Law modifies the Foreign Investment Law, mainly by repealing (exclusively) the provisions of the law requiring prior approval by the National Executive Power or by the implement- ing authority for foreign capital investments. De- cree No. 1225 of November 9, 1989 regulates the foreign investments regime. The investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currencies, in capital goods and their spare parts and accessories, in profits or capital in local currency belonging to foreign investors, in capitalization of external credits in freely convertible foreign currencies, in intangible goods (in accordance with the specific, applicable legislation), and in any other form of contribution acceptable to the implementing au- thority or within the scope of commercial or promo- tional regimes. Foreign investors may invest in Argentina with- out prior approval, on the same terms as investors who are resident in Argentina, subject to the laws governing the field in which they intend to invest. Law No. 23697 has established the Register of For- eign Capital Investments, and Decree No. 1225/89 provides that investments registered before its en- try into force shall automatically be recorded in the new register. Investments carried out using external public debt instruments cannot be registered unless they are redeemable. Registered foreign investments may be repatri- ated after three years. The National Executive Power may suspend the right to transfer profits and to repatriate invested capital if there is an external ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 ARGENTINA payments crisis. When the Central Bank limits ac- cess to exchange markets by means of exchange controls, foreign investors may acquire foreign ex- change for transfer abroad as profits and repatria- tion of capital. Without prejudice to the foregoing, enterprises that receive foreign investments may distribute the liquid profits they earn to foreign investors who have registered their investment with foreign exchange from their exports. If the National Executive Power declares an external pay- ments crisis, the Central Bank will deliver external public debt instruments denominated in foreign currency for the amounts that registered foreign investors wish to remit as profits. Law No. 23760 (on tax reform), passed on Decem- ber 7,1989 and promulgated on December 14,1989, abolished the special tax on additional profits from foreign capital investments that had been imposed by Article 16 of Law No. 21382. Local enterprises based on foreign capital may borrow domestically with the same rights and on the same terms as local enterprises based on domes- tic capital. The Government, through its Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Culture, has entered into investment promotion and protection agreements with the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union, the govern- ments of Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The agreements will come into effect when the governments notify each other that their constitutional requirements for entry into force of international agreements have been met. These agreements are intended to promote, and es- pecially to protect, investments in the signatory countries. Since September 1984, the Central Bank has en- tertained applications for the capitalization into for- eign direct investment of principal falling due with an exchange rate guarantee. Many of these applica- tions were approved until the suspension of the arrangement in 1986. In addition, during the same period, certain applications for the capitalization into foreign direct investments of swap transactions that fell due were also approved, although no for- mal arrangement existed for such transactions. In October 1987, a debt-conversion scheme was announced that would allow investments to be fi- nanced through conversion of external loan claims into domestic currency at the free foreign exchange market rate. The value of the loan claims would be determined through an auction system. The scheme came into effect on January 1,1988, and the first auction was held in January 1988. Profits on investments under this scheme may not be remitted for at least four years, and capital may not be re- patriated for ten years. No auctions under this scheme were held during 1990. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institu- tions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good-delivery bars among themselves and may buy such gold from their clients. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are subject in addition to a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage opera- tions in old coins or good-delivery gold with their clients, against foreign bank notes. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments July 20. The "Sworn Declaration of Need to Im- port" requirement and the 3 percent advance im- port deposits were eliminated. During August-December, quantitative import restrictions were gradually reduced by eliminating goods from the list of goods subject to prior con- sultation with domestic producers. The proportion of goods on this list to domestic production was reduced from 18 percent in August to about 5 per- cent by the end of the year. August 15. The tariff rates on food products and medical equipment, which ranged from 13 percent to 24 percent, were reduced to a uniform rate of 5 percent. The tariff rates for some 2,400 additional products not imported during 1989 and previously subject to rates from 18 percent to 24 percent were reduced to a uniform rate of 16 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds During the year, export taxes on agricultural goods were reduced on several occasions, to 11 per- cent, on average, for oleaginous products and zero percent for other grains by the end of the year. July 1. Export taxes on industrial manufactured products were eliminated and on nontraditional products were reduced to an average of 10 percent (to decline to zero percent in 1991). In both cases, the reductions were effected on the basis of regula- tions in effect since 1989, which established a monthly schedule of reductions, with the objective of reaching zero percent for all products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA1 (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Aruba is the Aruban Florin, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Af. 1.7900 = US$1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba (the Bank) deals with local commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of parity. On De- cember 31,1990, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Af. 1.77 and Af. 1.80, re- spectively, per US$1. (The official selling rate for drafts was Af. 1.78 = US$1.) Official buying and selling rates for other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar on the international exchange markets. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3 percent is levied on all payments made by residents to nonresidents. Purchases of foreign ex- change by resident companies with a nonresident status for foreign exchange control purposes are exempted from the commission. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the Bank. Import licenses, where required, are is- sued by the Department of Economic Affairs, Com- merce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency, except in the legal tender of Aruba. For purposes of the compila- tion of the balance of payments, all payments made by residents to nonresidents and receipts through local banks and through banks abroad must be re- ported to the Bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in any foreign currency, but they are not permitted, in principle, to hold accounts in Aruban florins. 1 On January 1,1986, the island of Aruba, which was formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate non- metropolitan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Netherlands Antillean guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and European Currency Units. Resident Foreign Bank Accounts The opening and maintaining of foreign bank accounts by residents require a license from the Bank. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Im- ports of a small number of products are restricted. The restrictions, however, are administered liber- ally in accordance with the domestic supply situation. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles exceeding Af. 50,000 a quarter require a license from the Bank. Tourist travel allowances, education allowances, re- mittances for family maintenance, and allowances for medical treatment are granted liberally. Trans- fers of profits and dividends are permitted by the Bank upon application. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The exportation of Aruban bank notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require a license. Export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days, credited to a foreign currency ac- count with a local bank, or credited with a foreign bank with the approval of the Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The regulations governing export proceeds also apply to proceeds from invisibles. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital The following transactions require a bank license: (1) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 ARUBA , / ox domestic securities; (2) purchases of officially listed foreign securities with values exceeding Af. 50,000 a 0 , s j i ^ • year; and (3) purchases from and sales to nonresi- dents of foreign real estate. Proceeds from the liqui- dation of direct foreign investments may be repatri- ated without restriction. T r y JT Changes During 1990 ,„ Imports and Import Payments During 1990, import restrictions were liberalized, and, by January 1, 1991, restrictions were removed on all products except chicken eggs. r ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dol- lar.1 The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to intervene in the for- eign exchange market. On December 31, 1990, the closing buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were $A 1.293 = US$1 and $A 1.294 = US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves and with their customers at mu- tually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency, in respect of trade and non-trade-related transactions. The Reserve Bank sets a limit for each dealer's net open overnight foreign exchange exposure. Foreign currency fu- tures contracts and options on futures are traded on the Sydney Futures Exchange. The procedural requirements applying to certain transactions with residents of designated countries and to immigrants, which had previously applied for taxation-screening purposes, were abolished as of July 1, 1990. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank is responsible for administer- ing the few requirements imposed under Aus- tralia's current foreign exchange arrangements. (Most exchange controls were abolished on Decem- ber 12, 1983.) In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Australia notified the Fund, on September 10, 1990, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. These restrictions include prohibitions on purchases and sales of foreign currency and the taking or sending out of Australia of Australian currency by, or the payment to nonresident ac- counts in Australia of, the Governments of Kuwait and Iraq, their agencies, or their respective na- tionals without the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency,2 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by persons in Australia in exchange for Australian currency must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may establish and operate accounts without formality; funds may also be repatriated without restriction. Accounts may be denominated in foreign currency, but purchases and sales of for- eign currency in Australia must be handled through authorized dealers. Special requirements apply in the case of interest-bearing investments by foreign government monetary authorities (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Import-licensing requirements, which had ap- plied to a very small range of secondhand equip- ment, were abolished in 1989. Relatively few tariffs are bound under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) (about 20 percent); almost all rates are subject to some tariff-reduction program. In July 1989, the simple average rate of ad valorem tariffs was 10.6 percent. Tariffs for some sectors are relatively high, especially textiles and clothing (up to 55 percent), footwear (up to 45 percent), and passenger motor vehicles (40 percent); in the latter sector, however, there are no formal or informal quantitative import restrictions (in the form of ex- port restraints by supplier countries), and under current legislation, tariffs will be phased down to 35 percent by January 1, 1992. Australia's tariff-reduction program announced in May 1988 envisages that tariff rates above 15 per- cent will be reduced gradually to 15 percent by aThe Australian dollar also circulates in several other coun- tries, including Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 AUSTRALIA July 1992. Tariff rates higher than 10 percent but less than 15 percent will be phased down to 10 percent during this period. Proportional reductions are to be made to those tariff rates not expressed in ad val- orem terms. The exceptions to these policies are textiles, clothing, footwear, and passenger motor vehicles. These industries are covered by sectoral plans, under which the general tariff rates will be reduced over specified periods but will remain at levels two to three times higher than those for other sectors.3 There are no quotas on imports other than tariff quotas, which apply to textiles, clothing, footwear, and cheese and curd. Australia, which is not a sig- natory of the Multifiber Arrangement, introduced revised tariff quota arrangements for textiles, clothing, and footwear on March 1, 1989. The scheme involves progressively reducing the base quota, allocated according to previous import per- formance, until it lapses on February 29,1992. Addi- tional tariff quotas are offered for tender and are freely transferable. They will be expanded automat- ically each year until they lapse on June 30, 1995, when the tariff quota system for textiles, clothing, and footwear will lapse. The tariff quota system for cheese and curd will lapse on June 30, 1992. For many products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. The range of goods subject to control include narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances, firearms and certain weapons, particular chemicals, certain primary commodities, some glazed ceramic ware, and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obligations arising from Aus- tralia's membership in international commodity agreements. Australia's antidumping procedures have been simplified under the revised Customs Tariff (Anti- dumping) Act of 1988. They provide for stricter conditions for demonstrating the causal link be- tween dumping and material injury to domestic industries. Industries that use imported products and other interested parties may also make submis- 3 Some tariff-reduction schemes were already in place before the May 1988 Economic Statement. (The Statement left these reduction schemes intact.) Tariff-phasing arrangements in prog- ress at the end of 1987 were: reduction to 15 percent from 20 per- cent by January 1992 for chemicals and plastics; to 15 percent from 30 percent by January 1, 1991 for glass and glassware; to 15 percent from 40 percent by January 1, 1990 for pulp, paper, and paper products; and to 10 percent from 40 percent by Jan- uary 1, 1994 for processed vegetable products. sions to the inquiry. Antidumping duties and un- dertakings will lapse automatically after three years, although domestic industries may renew the antidumping action. In special circumstances, anti- dumping actions may be introduced retrospectively or in anticipation of the arrival of dumped or sub- sidized goods. The Antidumping Authority was established to advise the Government on these ac- tions, although the Australian Customs Service re- mains responsible for the preliminary investigation of a complaint. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA), almost all goods produced in New Zealand are imported duty free, and quantitative restrictions were phased out to achieve free trade in goods from July 1, 1990. Imports of motor vehicles from New Zealand were subject to a customs tariff until January 1, 1990. Antidumping actions against imports from New Zealand will not be taken after July 1, 1990, with existing antidumping actions against New Zealand firms being terminated on this date. Actions will be taken under domestic trade practices legislation if it is considered necessary to redress unfair competition. The South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) provides for duty-free and unrestricted access to Australian and New Zealand markets for most of the products ex- ported by the member countries.4 Developing countries obtain tariff preferences on their exports to Australia under the Australian Sys- tem of Tariff Preference. Since 1986, a uniform pref- erential margin of 5 percentage points on dutiable goods has been set for all developing countries; where the general tariff rate is below 5 percent, imports from developing countries enter duty free. The scheme was fully implemented during 1990. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are unrestricted, except for transactions involving Kuwait and Iraq. (See sec- tion on Administration of Control, above.) Travelers may take out of Australia unlimited amounts of Australian currency and of foreign cur- rency notes purchased from authorized dealers. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may also take out without restriction any amount in for- eign currency they brought into Australia. Persons 4The areas covered by this agreement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand)—Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 23 leaving Australia with Australian or foreign cur- rency notes exceeding $A5,000 must complete a report form in terms of the Cash Transaction Re- ports Act; these forms are available at ports or air- ports from Australian Customs. The ANZCERTA also provides, through a protocol, for the liberalization of the trade in services between Australia and New Zealand, subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. In addition, certain service activities are excluded from the agreement. Among Australia's list of exclusions are telecommunications, banking, airport services and aviation, coastal shipping, media, and postal ser- vices. The operation of the trade-in-services pro- tocol was reviewed in December 1990 at the techni- cal level, and the two countries are considering the outcome of that review. Exports and Export Proceeds The export regime is designed to encourage the relatively unrestricted exports of Australian prod- ucts. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control over specified goods; administer trade embargoes and meet obli- gations under international arrangements; restrict the export of certain defense goods; regulate the export of goods that contain high technology and have dual civilian/military application;5 and main- tain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources/and flora and fauna. There are no formalities regulating the disposal of export proceeds. The Government also exercises export controls to secure national conservation objectives and to re- spond to specific market distortions abroad that have an impact on the export prices of certain prod- ucts. The Government abolished or amended export controls on many mineral and petroleum products in 1987-88. Remaining controls apply mainly to food and agricultural products. In order to address distortions in the bauxite and alumina, coal, and iron sectors, the Government monitors trade in these products and retains the authority to withhold export approval for shipments at prices not in line with market conditions. Export controls apply to uranium to ensure compliance with the Government's commercial and non- proliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also ap- ply on the exportation of certain other nuclear and related materials. Export restrictions on copper scrap and copper alloy scrap were lifted in 1990. The 5Australia became a participant in the Coordinating Commit- tee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM), effective May 1989. exportation of crude oil and petroleum products to South Africa is banned. Licenses are required for the exportation of un- processed wood, including woodchip. Licensing requirements are intended to ensure compliance with the Government's policy regarding environ- mental protection, elimination of market distor- tions, and the promotion of further processing in Australia. Australia participates in several voluntary re- straint agreements or similar restraint agreements affecting its exports. These comprise limits on ex- ports of sheep meat and goat meat as well as high- quality "Hilton" beef to the EC, bovine meat and goat meat to Japan, and bovine meat and steel prod- ucts to the United States. Australia has also entered into a voluntary export restraint with the United States on steel. The Australian Dairy Corporation administers ex- port control powers in relation to prescribed dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy products must be licensed. This system allows the control of ex- ports to markets where quantitative restrictions ap- ply and ensures that export prices do not fall below minimum prices agreed under the GATT for these products. Exports of red meat and livestock can only be made by persons or firms licensed by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation (AMLC). The AMLC has the power to engage in export trading in its own right, and may introduce arrangements to control Australian exports to that market to observe quantitative restrictions in any particular market. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings from invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in foreign or domes- tic bank notes, subject to completion of a report form for amounts exceeding $A5,000. (See section on Payments for Invisibles, above.) Capital The vast majority of transactions involving trans- fers of interest-bearing capital from Australia and nonresident investments in Australia may be un- dertaken without formality. The only exceptions are that foreign governments, their agencies not similar to private sector commercial entities, and interna- tional organizations are not permitted to borrow in Australia. Moreover, while there are no limits on the interest-bearing investments of international organ- izations or of foreign central banks and other mone- tary authorities, the Reserve Bank may determine ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 AUSTRALIA an amount up to which the investment of foreign government monetary institutions (which also un- dertake commercial investments) will be regarded as having been undertaken for official foreign re- serve management purposes. All investing agen- cies are expected to be stable holders of Australian dollar assets and to keep the Reserve Bank advised of their Australian dollar portfolios. Income derived by a foreign government from the conduct of com- mercial operations is not exempt from Australian taxation. Interest-bearing investments of a foreign government's official foreign reserves are exempt from taxation under the principle of sovereign immunity. The Government recognizes the substantial con- tribution foreign investment makes to the develop- ment of Australia's industries and resources and has framed its policy with a view to encouraging direct investment that is consistent with the needs of the community. Under Australia's foreign invest- ment policy, certain types of proposals by foreign investors are subject to examination. These include: (1) acquisitions of substantial interests in existing Australian businesses with total assets of $A5 mil- lion or more ($A3 million or more for rural proper- ties); (2) proposals for the establishment of new businesses involving total investments of $A10 mil- lion or more; (3) proposals for investment in the media irrespective of size; (4) direct investment by foreign government or their agencies irrespective of size; (5) acquisitions of nonresidential commercial real estate valued at $A5 million or more; and (6) proposals to acquire residential real estate irre- spective of size (unless exempt under the regulations). In most industry sectors, the Government ap- proves proposals for the establishment of new busi- nesses involving total investments of $A10 million or more and proposals for the acquisition of existing businesses with total assets valued at $ A5 million or more ($A3 million or more if greater than half of the assets of the business are attributable to rural land) unless judged to be contrary to the national interest. Certain restrictions apply in respect of proposed acquisitions of real estate but approval is normally granted to: (1) acquisitions of real estate for de- velopment; (2) purchases of vacant residential land (on condition that development occurs within 12 months) and home units and townhouses that are "off the plan" or under construction (on condition that no more than half of the units in any one development are sold to foreign interests; and (3) acquisitions of developed nonresidential com- mercial real estate, subject to 50 percent Australian equity participation (unless not available). In applying the policy, the authorities make every effort to avoid unnecessary interference in normal commercial processes and recognize the special characteristics and circumstances that may arise in individual cases. The policy is nondiscriminatory as to the country of origin of investors, and the Foreign Investment Review Board, which acts as an inde- pendent source of advice to the Government on foreign investment matters, stands ready to assist and advise foreign investors in formulating their proposals. Gold Australia has no restrictions applying to owning, buying, selling, importing, or exporting gold and gold coins, with the exception of the importing and exporting of Krugerrand. If coins in excess of $A 5,000 are exported in any 12-month period, there is a customs reporting requirement under the Cash Transaction Reports Act of 1988. Changes During 1990 Administration of Control July 1. The foreign exchange regulations pertain- ing to tax screening and the taking out of Australia, by any person, of Australian notes and coins were abolished. The only regulation remaining is the re- quirement that foreign exchange dealers must be authorized by the Reserve Bank of Australia. Imports and Import Payments June 29. Restrictions on imports of copper scrap and copper alloy scrap were lifted. July 1. Under the terms of the ANZCERTA, all quantitative restrictions on imports from New Zea- land were eliminated. July 1. Antidumping procedures on trade be- tween Australia and New Zealand ceased to be ap- plicable under the ANZCERTA. July 31. The ban on the importation of uncooked frozen pork from Canada, maintained for health reasons, was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Without assuming any formal obligations, the au- thorities aim at maintaining a stable relationship with the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS). Forward transactions are permitted. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces, and the Aus- trian National Bank does not intervene in the for- ward market or provide cover for commercial banks' forward positions. On December 31, 1990, the au- thorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 10.627 and S 10.727, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers ex- change control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized to implement the exchange control regulations. Export and import licenses required for goods by the Foreign Trade Act 1984, as amended in 1988, have to be issued by the Federal Ministry for Eco- nomic Affairs with respect to industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and For- estry with respect to agricultural products. In in- stances where the customs authorities are autho- rized to issue import and export licenses on behalf of the ministries mentioned above, these are granted without delay or formal application (auto- matic licensing) at the time of the clearance of goods through customs. Effective August 13, 1990, all exchange and trade transactions with the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait have been subject to special authorization. In accordance with the Fund's executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Austria notified the Fund on August 22, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current in- ternational transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There is only one category of nonresident account in schillings, namely, Free Schilling Accounts. These accounts may be freely opened by Austrian banks on behalf of nonresidents. They may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign cur- rencies by a nonresident to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authori- zation; they may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents. Balances may be freely con- verted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident ac- counts in foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. For many goods, licenses are granted by customs at the time of clearance, irrespective of the country from which they are im- ported.1 Nearly all imports from General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) countries, their associated territories, and certain other countries2 1 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 2These countries are Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangla- desh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Bur- kina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark (including Faeroe Islands and Green- land), Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equa- torial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Ger- many, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, Kenya, Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mal- dives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Myan- mar, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philip- pines, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 AUSTRIA have been liberalized. Austria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles and clothing as defined in Article XII, Section 1 of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Tex- tiles. The importation of coffee is governed by the international agreement for this commodity. Non- liberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures: namely, state trading, global quotas, bi- lateral quotas, and discretionary licensing. State trad- ing covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT countries; such quotas apply only to potatoes, wheat, cornstarch, preserved meat, and wine. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, including imports of certain textiles from specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Grains, milk and butter, and cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter, and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Mar- keting Law and the law governing livestock farming and trading, and the marketing of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Certain agricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates from the countries of their trading partners. Import li- censes are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended for periods of three months at a time. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Under the 1982 Customs Preference Act, which covers the second ten-year period of the Austrian Scheme of Generalized Prefer- ences, special treatment is provided for imports from developing countries, and in particular, 31 least- developed countries as defined by the UN General Assembly; the list of products eligible for preferential treatment has also been extended under the Act. Payments for Invisibles Residents are permitted to conclude transactions with nonresidents involving invisible payments without restriction. Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Residents traveling abroad for tourism purposes may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks or obtain short-term advances from nonresi- dents without limitation; if the amount exceeds the equivalent of S 100,000, the Austrian National Bank must be informed. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings. The use of credit cards abroad for travel expenditures is permitted. Persons leaving Austria may take with them Austrian or foreign bank notes and coins in any amount. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas es- tablished in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export proceeds may be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in foreign currencies may be used freely for authorized pay- ments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be deposited with an authorized bank and may subsequently be used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may import Austrian or foreign bank notes and coins without limit. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian se- curities and shares and participation by nonresi- dents in Austrian companies are unrestricted. The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Foreign banks cannot establish branches in Aus- tria, except through an enterprise incorporated in Austria. Nonresidents are also not permitted to in- vest in the auditing, mining, energy, transport, or legal sectors, nor are they permitted to acquire a share of 25 percent or more in ships registered in Austria. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to residents, including those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, require prior approval by the National Bank, except for shareholders granting to their own enterprises. Domestic banks may freely grant credits and loans to nonresidents. The National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 27 investments in Austria (shares or participations in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Austria); and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresidents except to for- eign banks and financial institutions. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend for- eign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment may be freely used. Residents are also permitted to acquire real estate abroad. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresi- dents, without restriction, Austrian and foreign se- curities; for foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out through authorized banks, and the securities purchased must be kept with such banks, with the exception of securities listed on a domestic stock exchange. Resi- dents may sell foreign securities and Austrian exter- nal bonds to nonresidents only through an Austrian authorized bank. Gold Effective January 1, 1990, all transactions in gold were liberalized. Where the Foreign Trade Law pre- scribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is issued either by the Min- istry for Economic Affairs to industrial users or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for certain gold imports within its jurisdiction. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the The Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar are B$1.0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound ster- ling are also officially quoted, the buying rate being based on the New York market midrate, and the selling rate, 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of The Bahamas deals only with com- mercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a com- mission of 0.50 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £ stg. 1. These charges are additional to the Central Bank's charges. A stamp tax of B$0.25 is applied to all outward remittances when the amount is B$30 or less. A further tax of B$0.25 is levied on every additional B$30 or fraction thereof. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency"1 may be negotiated between residents through an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents of The Bahamas where the resident is due to receive or has to pay foreign currency under a firm contractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of fu tu re requirements unless the Central Bank's permission has been given. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign cur- rency forward with nonresidents without prior ap- proval from the Central Bank. Commercial banks may deal among themselves forward at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their open position carried either spot or forward does not exceed the equiv- 1This is foreign currency in respect of which there is general or specific central bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of The Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency se- curities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property, or of direct investments outside The Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase from non- residents of foreign currency securities and the making of direct investments outside The Bahamas. alent of B$500,000 long or short. There are no for- ward cover arrangements in the official sector. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel facilities, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands.2 Im- port and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in cer- tain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agri- culture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Department is- sues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or in Bahamian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Ac- counts denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, autho- rized banks may also open External Accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for non- resident investors. External Accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but in- come on registered investments may also be cred- ited to these accounts with the Central Bank's beginning in June 1988, the Central Bank established a branch of its Exchange Control Department in Grand Bahama to serve the foreign exchange needs of residents in that area. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 29 approval. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.4 Accounts that are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by emigrants. Where the value of an emi- grant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is cred- ited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Ac- counts are transferable through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, with the Central Bank's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is pro- hibited or controlled for health, social, or human- itarian reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for making payments for imports, irrespective of origin;5 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 200 percent, depending on the type of good. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1.5 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Authorized dealers can make payments to nonresi- dents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles within specified limits. Such pay- ments include freight, ships' disbursements, com- missions, royalties, education, and insurance pay- ments. Residents are entitled, on application to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance equivalent to B$l,000 a person a year for tourist travel and to B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The allowance of B$l,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Applications for foreign ex- change in excess of these amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves bona fide ap- plications. Foreign exchange facilities obtained for 4Persons of foreign nationality who have been granted "tem- porary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresi- dents but are not permitted to hold External Accounts in Baha- mian dollars. 5Except in the Family Islands, where this authority is dele- gated to clearing bank branches. travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of his return to The Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$10,000 a person an academic year is normally granted upon applica- tion. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Tempo- rary residents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but where commitments outside The Bahamas are larger than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Tem- porary residents may also repatriate all of their ac- cumulated savings resulting from their employ- ment in The Bahamas. A traveler may take out Bahamian bank notes not exceeding B$70 in value; Bahamian travelers may not take out notes of any other country, except with the specific approval of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these require- ments are seldom enforced. There are no restric- tions on the importation of foreign bank notes. The importation of domestic bank notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside The Bahamas require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents do not require exchange control approval, although the subse- quent utilization of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any action whereby nonresidents acquire control of or participate in an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resident individuals and companies require the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 THE BAHAMAS specific permission of the Central Bank to maintain foreign currency bank accounts abroad.6 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue there- after. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms subject to individual approval by the Central Bank, the purchase of for- eign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. Special procedures apply to invest- ments in the form of purchase of real property, as specified under the Immovable Property (Acquisi- tion by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981, which came into effect on November 1, 1983: foreigners intending to purchase land must apply to the Foreign Invest- ments Board, a group of designated ministers of the Government. If such application is approved, pay- ment for the purchase may be made either in Baha- mian dollars from an External Account or in foreign currency. For all investments with approved status, permis- sion is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends representing earned trading profits and investment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, can be made only with investment currency, and approval is lim- ited to one property for each family. Any incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with invest- ment currency; expenditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to nonresident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents, in line with the provisions of the Im- movable Property (Acquisition by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981. Residents may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$l,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in The Bahamas, even if considered residents for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemp- tion from certain exchange control obligations, nota- bly with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an External Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Bahamian dollars arising from the sale of foreign currency in the official for- eign exchange market; interest, dividends, and cap- ital payments on such securities may not be remit- ted outside The Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency securities with official exchange or out of ex- port proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All pur- chases, sales, and switches of foreign currency se- curities in The Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wher- ever the switch takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.7 All foreign se- curities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by or to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency se- curities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by De- cember 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the invest- ment currency market; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. 6Banks and trusts established in The Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. 7Thirteen banks and trust companies are authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive se- curities as deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 31 Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside The Bahamas are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents. Un- der normal rules persons leaving The Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. When the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market after four years, or through the investment currency market at any time. After a person has been redesignated a nonresident, income accruing from his assets re- maining in The Bahamas is normally remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign ex- change market. Residents other than authorized banks require permission to borrow foreign currency from non- residents, and authorized dealers are subject to ex- change control directions with regard to their lend- ing of foreign currency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conver- sion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is normally conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which per- mission has been specifically given. A resident company that is wholly owned by nonresidents is not normally allowed to raise work- ing capital in Bahamian dollars unless such funds are a small proportion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of such local currency borrowing is normally deter- mined in relation to the resident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas require permission before they extend loans in domestic currency to any cor- porate body (other than a bank) that is resident in The Bahamas and is controlled by any means, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. However, companies that are set up by nonresi- dents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not nor- mally allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from res- idents either for fixed or working capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; bor- rowings in a foreign currency are normally permit- ted on application. Gold Residents of The Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import duty on gold bullion or gold coins; however, an import duty of 35 percent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry from all sources. A 1.5 percent stamp tax payable to customs is also payable on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in de- nominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement Deceniber6. The rate of the stamp tax was raised to B$0.25 from B$0.10. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. The exchange rate for the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set within margins of plus or minus 7.25 percent of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has maintained a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and since December 1980, the exchange rate has remained unchanged at BD 1 = US$2.6596. With the appre- ciation of the U.S. dollar against other major curren- cies in the early 1980s, the exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR remained outside the 7.25 per- cent margin throughout the period May 1981-June 1986. The exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR returned to within the 7.25 percent margin in July 1986 and remained within this margin during 1989/90. With the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies, the exchange rate of the dinar in SDR terms has been outside the 7.25 percent margin for practically all of the second half of 1990. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) and has remained unchanged since December 1980. The BMA provides daily recommended rates for banks dealing with the public for amounts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deut- sche mark, based on the latest available U.S. dollar rates against those currencies. On December 31, 1990, the BMA's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respec- tively, per US$1. The BMA does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commer- cial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange com- mission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the BMA's U.S. dollar rates and the New York market rate for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector, while the BMA moni- tors forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of commercial banks' monthly returns. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammunition, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be regis- tered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Com- merce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufactured by foreign companies that are blacklisted by the League of Arab States. Im- ports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or se- curity. Imports of cultured pearls are also pro- hibited. Import licenses are required for arms and ammunition and alcoholic beverages. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. The rates of customs tar- iffs range between 5 percent and 10 percent on most commodities; the customs tariffs on vehicles, alco- holic beverages, and tobacco are 20 percent, 125 per- cent, and 50 percent, respectively. Government pro- curements are required to give preference to goods produced in Bahrain and within the member coun- tries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), provided that the prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of imported substitutes; the margins are 10 percent for goods produced in Bahrain and 5 percent for goods 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN 33 produced within the member countries of the GCC. Foreign exchange for payments in respect of permit- ted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are at- tached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign invest- ments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely, with the exception that, under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law, the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of their profits. Licensed off- shore banking units may freely engage in transac- tions with nonresidents; transactions with residents are not normally permitted. The stock exchange began operations on January 2,1989, and trading on the floor of the exchange began on June 17, 1989. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 percent customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Brokerage business in gold (as well as other commodities) requires approval from the BMA before registering with the Ministry of Com- merce and Agriculture; such business is subject to a minimum deposit requirement equivalent in the case of gold to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes During 1990 Capital ]une 16. The maximum recommended interest rates for BD deposits with a maturity of six months or less were canceled and banks were allowed to offer rates of their choice. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket consisting of the currencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31, 1990, the official (spot) middle rate of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tk 35.79 = US$1, and the spot buying and selling rates of Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for au- thorized dealers were Tk 35.74 and Tk 35.84, respec- tively, per US$1. On the same date, the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of autho- rized dealers were Tk 35.6987 and Tk 35.8813, re- spectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the daily closing rates of the U.S. dollar in New York for the currencies concerned. Different effective exchange rates arise from the operation of the Secondary Exchange Market (SEM), which comprises the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES), and the Export Performance Benefit Scheme (XPB). Under the WES, foreign exchange earnings remitted by workers abroad, tourist receipts, and most service receipts are sold at a rate determined by a committee of authorized foreign exchange dealers (mainly banks) constituted by Bangladesh Bank. Under the XPB scheme, exporters and certain indirect exporters of nontraditional items are eligi- ble to receive an exchange rate premium, which is set to equal the difference between the WES rate (in taka per U.S. dollar) and the official rate. Each eligi- ble item receives a coefficient of either 40 percent, 70 percent, or 100 percent of the XPB, depending on that item's domestic value added and the priority that the Government places on encouraging its ex- port. At the end of 1990, 71 items were eligible for 100 percent of the XPB, covering domestic value added of 70 percent and higher. A coefficient of 70 percent was given to 40 items with a value added of between 50 percent and 69 percent. However, light engineering products, machine tools and equipment, cast-iron products, household electrical appliances, and electric cables with a value added of 60 percent and above, between 40 percent and 59 percent, and less than 40 percent were given coefficients of 100 percent, 70 percent, and 60 per- cent, respectively. Exports of garments and leather were subject to a schedule of coefficients. Garments received 70 percent XPB if they were made from imported raw materials, and 100 percent XPB if domestic materials were used. For leather items, the coefficients were 40 percent for products using imported raw materials and 100 percent for prod- ucts using domestic materials. Seventy percent XPB was given to exports of intermediate textile prod- ucts (i.e., fabric) and to domestic sales of intermedi- ate products that were finished locally and then exported. All other nontraditional exports, except wet-blue leather, received 40 percent XPB. On De- cember 31, 1990, the middle exchange rate in the secondary market was Tk 36.505 per US$1. Forward facilities at authorized banks are avail- able in all approved foreign currencies and in cur- rencies of the member countries of the Asian Clear- ing Union (ACU),1 covering periods of up to six months for export proceeds and import payments and covering up to three months for remittances of surplus collection of foreign shipping companies and airlines. The authorized banks may in their turn take forward cover in the interbank market or from Bangladesh Bank against transactions for which they have entered into forward contracts with their customers. Authorized banks may also take for- ward cover for one month from Bangladesh Bank against sight export bills negotiated by them, and enter into forward contracts with their overseas branches/correspondents against underlying ex- port or import transactions. Authorized banks are permitted to retain relatively small working bal- ances with their foreign correspondents, and cur- rency swaps are not permitted unless they are against underlying approved commercial transac- tions. Forward transactions of Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases and sales of deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the member coun- tries of the ACU. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The 7 foreign and 11 domestic commercial banks (of which 3 are nationalized), together with 3 joint- venture banks and 4 specialized financial 1 Members of the Asian Clearing Union are Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 35 institutions, have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized banks) in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Min- istry of Commerce is responsible for registering ex- porters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Registered importers can make their imports in terms of the IPO against letters of credit. Letters of credit authorization forms are is- sued by authorized dealers and do not require a separate import license. Certain trade transactions are conducted through state-trading agencies, in- cluding the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Bangladesh notified the Fund on October 29, 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Settlements with countries with which Bangladesh has commodity exchange agree- ments2 normally must be effected through noncon- vertible U.S. dollar or pound sterling accounts for goods and services specified in the agreements up to agreed value limits; settlement with these coun- tries can be made in convertible currencies for goods and services not specified in the agreements or beyond the value ceilings specified in the agree- ments. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member countries of the ACU in respect of current transactions must be effected in terms of the Asian Monetary Unit (AMU) through the Clearing Union.3 Settlements with other countries normally take place in convertible currencies and, in a few cases, through Nonresident Taka Accounts. Pay- ments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which importa- tion is prohibited); they may be made (1) in taka for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bangladesh of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a Nonresident Taka Account. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. 2Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, Myanmar, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. 3The AMU is equivalent in value to the SDR and is used for recording transactions through the ACU. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are desig- nated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.4 Nonresident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank in respect of Bangladesh nationals/foreign na- tionals who reside abroad and in respect of foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts may be made by autho- rized dealers without the prior approval of Bangla- desh Bank during the absence of the account holder from Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made without the prior approval of Bangla- desh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. Convertible Taka Accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, interna- tional nonprofit humanitarian organizations func- tioning in Bangladesh and their expatriate em- ployees, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh regardless of their status are allowed to maintain Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the pro- ceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely and at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remit- tances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely per- mitted. Foreign missions and embassies, their ex- patriate personnel, foreign airline/shipping com- panies, and international nonprofit organizations in Bangladesh may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned thereon can be disbursed only in local currency. Wage Earners' Scheme. Under the WES, Bangla- desh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open For- eign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible curren- cies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided they were declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other 4The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 BANGLADESH Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the WES; and (4) transfers from Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. The accounts may be debited, without restriction, but must be reported to the Bangladesh Bank, for the following purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the WES; (3) payment for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payment of bank com- missions and other bank charges connected with imports; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for business or private purposes up to prescribed limits. For travel on private purposes, the upper limit is the equivalent of US$300 a person a year (regardless of the number of visits annually) for air travel to Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka (but up to US$125 for over- land travel to India); and US$1,200 a person a year and a maximum of US$500 a trip for travel to other countries. Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Bangladesh nationals residing abroad; foreign na- tionals, and foreign companies/firms registered and/or incorporated abroad; banks; and other finan- cial institutions, including institutional investors, may open interest-bearing Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts, whose terms range from one month to one year, may be credited, in initial minimum amounts of US$1,000 or £ stg. 500 (US$25,000 for foreigners), with (1) remittances in convertible currencies, and (2) transfers from existing Foreign Currency Ac- counts maintained under the WES. The banks pay interest on balances in these accounts at rates which are 1 percentage point higher than Eurocurrency deposit rates. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to his country of residence or anywhere he chooses; the account holder, if he is not otherwise ineligible under the WES, may also transfer the balance to any Foreign Currency Ac- count maintained under the WES. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka at the SEM rate (the official rate for foreigners), must be reported by banks monthly to the Bangla- desh Bank, and the accounts must be closed within one year or on maturity of the deposit, whichever is later, upon the taking up of permanent residence by the account holder in Bangladesh. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or from foreign aid, loans, and barter arrangements. Imports are guided by an annual import policy (IPO) announced by the Government. The IPO for the fiscal years 1989/90 and 1990/91 (July to June) was, however, announced in July 1989. It is based on a list of controlled items described accord- ing to the Harmonized System of Nomenclature and the Import Trade Control (ITC) schedule. The controlled list contains 284 items in the 1,239 catego- ries at the four-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes, following the announcement of liberaliza- tion of 70 categories of the list in July 1990. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited either for social or religious reasons or because simi- lar items are locally produced. The IPO prohibits or restricts imports of some raw materials or inputs, certain textiles, factory rejects, goods of substan- dard quality, used items, and materials inimical to public order or religious beliefs. Items not on these lists are freely importable through the SEM, pro- vided that the importer has a valid import registra- tion certificate. Imports at the official exchange rate are subject to allocation on the basis of foreign ex- change availability. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All importers (including all government depart- ments with the exception of the Ministry of De- fense) are required to obtain letter of credit authori- zation forms (LCAFs) for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Controller, registered commercial importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by authorized dealer banks without the need for an import license. For imports under the SEM scheme, an importer is required to have a valid import registration certifi- cate either as a commercial importer or industrial consumer or under the SEM scheme. These docu- ments are issued by a licensing office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Single-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid world- wide, except that imports from Israel and South Africa and imports transported on the flag vessels of Israel and South Africa are prohibited. For ship- ment of imports under cash and the SEM scheme, the validity of LCAFs is as follows: (1) 11 months from the date of issuance/registration of an LCAF for commercial items and industrial raw and pack- ing materials; and (2) 17 months from the date of issuance/registration of an LCAF for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If these docu- ments lapse for reasons beyond the control of the importer, they may be revalidated by the licensing authority. Authorized dealers may effect remit- tances within 12 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importation of commercial items ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 37 and industrial raw materials and packing materials and within 18 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If the importers require additional time to make remittances, then authorized dealers may allow such remittances only under the SEM scheme. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. In February, 1990, a 50 percent advance deposit re- quirement against letters of credit issued for com- mercial and industrial imports under the SEM scheme was introduced. In March 1990, the deposit requirement for industrial imports was reduced to 25 percent and was eliminated in November 1990. Under the SEM scheme, a provision exists for the importation of machinery and equipment against letters of credit opened on a deferred-payment basis for up to 360 days. Raw materials may be imported under letters of credit on a deferred-payment basis up to 180 days. Recognized export-oriented ready- made garments and specialized textile and hosiery units operating under the bonded warehouse sys- tem may effect imports of their raw and packing materials by opening letters of credit on a deferred- payment basis up to 180 days against export letters of credit received by them. Public sector importers may import on a cash-against-documents basis, subject to authorization by Bangladesh Bank. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period as established by the Board of Investment. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitle- ment for the importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and letter of credit authori- zation forms are issued on the basis of the entitle- ment. The entitlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely im- portable under the SEM scheme. However, for items appearing on the controlled list, the entitlement system applies even to imports under the SEM scheme. Separately, industrial consumers may be issued with LCAFs for parts and accessories of ma- chinery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred with- out prior approval. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is pro- vided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which is normally given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with autho- rized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an individ- ual basis. The allowance for personal travel by resi- dent Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is US$1,200 a year, subject to a maximum of US$500 a visit. Exporters with export earnings exceeding Tk 100 million during the preceding year are entitled to a maximum business travel allowance of US$40,000 a year. Exporters with export earnings exceeding Tk 50 million but not exceeding Tk 100 million in the preceding year are entitled to the allowance equiv- alent to 2 percent of the f .o.b. value of their exports, subject to a maximum of US$30,000 a year. Those with export earnings exceeding Tk 2.5 million but not exceeding Tk 50 million in the preceding year are also entitled to the allowance equivalent to 2 per- cent of the f .o .b. value of their exports, subject to a minimum of US$6,000 and a maximum of US$20,000 a year; exporters with a performance of up to Tk 2.5 million in the preceding year are al- lowed up to US$6,000 a year. New exporters are allowed up to a maximum of US$4,000 a year. Export houses are entitled to business travel allowances equivalent to 2.5 percent of their preceding year's export earnings, subject to a minimum of US$40,000 and a maximum of US$150,000. All business travel allowances must be purchased at the SEM rate. For medical treatment, the amount granted is the actual requirement, which must be purchased at the SEM rate, subject to the approval of Bangladesh Bank. A Bangladesh national flying abroad is allowed to pur- chase foreign exchange from a Foreign Currency Account under the WES, subject to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). For- eign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for fam- ily maintenance; such approval is usually granted for up to 50 percent of net salaries, if the terms of employment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on en- try less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into convertible foreign curren- cies at the time of their departure; if they made no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 BANGLADESH declaration, they may reconvert up to US$150. Resi- dent travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. A Bangladeshi or a foreign national may take out Tk 100 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh cur- rency notes and coins is prohibited. Authorized dealers are allowed to remit divi- dends to nonresident shareholders without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank, on receipt of applications from the companies concerned, which are supported by an audited balance sheet and profit and loss account, a Board resolution declaring dividend out of profit derived from the normal busi- ness activities of the company, and an auditor's cer- tificate that deduction/provision sufficient to cover tax liabilities has been made. Applications for remit- tance of profits to head offices of foreign firms/ institutions/banks operating in Bangladesh, sup- ported by similar documentation, are, however, subject to the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment. Exports of jute and jute goods must be registered with Bangladesh Bank. Since July 1,1989, cash assistance in lieu of XPB has been granted for exports of ju te goods at the follow- ing rates (based on f .o .b. value): (1) 10 percent for sacking; (2) 15 percent for hessian and yarn; and (3) 20 percent for carpet backing and other non- traditional jute goods. For shipments made during the period from July 1989 to June 1990, cash assis- tance was granted (1) at 5-20 percent of the net f.o.b. value of exports for frozen fish and leather products; (2) at 10 percent of gross value added of exports for nonquota items of garments; and (3) at 10-20 percent of net value added of local sales to exporters of garments for sales of locally produced yarn, hosiery, and handloom fabrics. Cash assis- tance on exports effected after March 5, 1990, is calculated on the basis of the exchange rate prevail- ing on March 4, 1990. (See section on Exchange Arrangement, above, regarding the Export Perfor- mance Benefit Scheme). Joint ventures, other than the garment industry, located in Export Processing Zones (EPZs) are al- lowed to retain 70 percent of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and convert the remaining 30 percent at the SEM rate and keep them in a bank account in domestic currency. Balances on domestic currency bank accounts may be converted into foreign exchange at the SEM rate for payments of imported goods. The retention rate for the gar- ment industry is 75 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surren- dered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in Foreign Currency Ac- counts or in Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Unless specifically exempted by Bangla- desh Bank, all Bangladesh nationals who are resi- dent in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign ex- change coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continu- ously for more than six months are required to surrender within one month of the date of acquisi- tion any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered while in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange held abroad or in Bangladesh by foreign diplomats and by foreign nationals employed in embassies and missions of foreign countries in Ban- gladesh is, however, exempt from this requirement. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 100 is prohibited. Foreign cur- rency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. Foreign currency notes may be brought in without limit by any person, provided that the total amount brought in is declared upon arrival. No declaration is required for the importation of foreign exchange not exceeding US$1,000 by nonresidents and US$750 by residents. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval, which is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable as- sets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh have to be declared to Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladesh na- tionals. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh, but the transfer of se- curities in favor of a person resident outside Bangla- desh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether or not held by residents, and to all foreign securities held by residents. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and corre- spondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 39 time. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin requires approval. Borrowing by non-resident-owned or non-resident-controlled enterprises from commercial banks in Bangladesh beyond specified ceilings, as well as any borrowing from abroad, requires approval, and loans by autho- rized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh also re- quire approval. They may grant, without reference to Bangladesh Bank, loans in domestic currency to foreign-owned manufacturing companies located in Bangladesh to the extent of 140 percent of their paid-up capital, reserves, undistributed profits, and unremitted dividends as disclosed by their last audited balance sheets. Authorized dealers may, however, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facili- ties against goods intended for export from Bangla- desh to companies controlled by persons resident outside Bangladesh. Authorized dealers must ob- tain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally per- mitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and Protec- tion) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and private en- trepreneurs. The act provides, inter alia, for the protection and equitable treatment of foreign pri- vate investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guar- antee for repatriation of investment. In the private sector, however, foreign participation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new investment, foreign investors are gener- ally required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange component. There is no ceiling on private investment, but any investments above Tk 100 million need special ap- proval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All investments in which the foreign equity portion exceeds 49 percent require the approval of the Investment Board. Non- residents must also obtain the permission of Bangla- desh Bank to continue to operate or to establish an office or branch in Bangladesh for the purpose of trading, or for commercial or industrial activities. Div- idends on foreign capital may be remitted freely after payment of taxes, except that 10 percent of the annual remittable profits must be held in Bangladesh by ster- ling tea companies until the total amount held is equal to 200 percent of paid-up capital. Gold The importation and exportation of gold and sil- ver in any form are prohibited without special per- mission, which is not normally granted. Exports of gold are allowed only in jewelry form under the Jewelry Export Scheme. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed indus- trialists or dentists. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement During 1990, the buying and selling rates of Bangla- desh Bank for authorized dealers were changed on six occasions, from Tk 32.23 (buying) and Tk 32.31 (sell- ing) per US$1 on December 31, 1989 to Tk 35.74 (buying) and Tk 35.84 (selling) on December 29,1990. Prescription of Currency January 13. The signing of a Special Trading Agreement dated September 10, 1989 between the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) and Salz- gitter Stahl GmbH (STH) of Germany was an- nounced. The Agreement would remain valid until December 19, 1990 and would cover trade of goods valued at US$20 million. January 21. The signing of a Counter Purchase Agreement dated June 1,1989 between the TCB and Myanmar Export and Import Services was an- nounced. The Agreement would remain valid until May 31,1990 and would cover trade of goods valued at US$20 million. May 23. The signing of a Barter Trade Protocol dated January 8, 1990 between Bangladesh and the People's Republic of China was announced. The Protocol would remain valid until January 7, 1991 and would cover exchange of products valued at US$31 million. July 9. The signing of a Barter Protocol dated March 27, 1990 between Bangladesh and the U.S.S.R was announced. The Protocol would re- main valid until December 31, 1990. Nonresident Accounts August 22. Interest rates on balances in Nonresi- dent Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts were raised 1 percentage point above the interest rates paid on Eurocurrency deposits with similar matu- rities; before this change, the interest rates had been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 BANGLADESH set at the same level as those on Eurocurrency deposits. Imports and Import Payments February 18. A 100 percent advance deposit re- quirement against letters of credit issued for com- mercial imports under the SEM scheme was introduced. February 26. A 50 percent advance deposit re- quirement for commercial and industrial imports under the SEM scheme was introduced. March 26. The advance deposit requirement for commercial and industrial imports under the SEM scheme was reduced to 25 percent from 50 percent. July 1. The Harmonized System Codes were in- troduced for reporting foreign exchange transac- tions effected on or after July 1, 1990, in respect of exports and imports of goods. July 28. Seventy categories (at the four-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes) were removed from the controlled list of imports. August 26. A change in the timing of sales of foreign exchange by Bangladesh Bank to authorized dealers for import payments under the SEM scheme was announced. Sales would be made at the time of settle- ment rather than at the time of opening of letters of credit, and the exchange rates prevailing on the day of foreign exchange purchase would apply. November 5. The advance deposit requirement for industrial imports under the SEM scheme was eliminated. Payments for Invisibles August 20. The foreign exchange allowance for travel by Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka was reduced to US$1,200 from US$1,500 a person a year, subject to a max- imum of US$500 a visit, and the allowance for travel to the above seven countries was reduced to US$300 a person a year, with a separate limit of US$125 a person a year for travel to India by surface transportation. Exports and Export Proceeds March 15. It was announced that the exchange rate prevailing on March 4 would be used to calcu- late the subsidy on ju te exports granted on or after March 5. March 31. A system of cash assistance was intro- duced, retroactively for the period July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1990, in lieu of XPB for certain nontraditional exports, at the following rates: (1) 5- 15 percent of the f .o .b. value for frozen fish; (2) 5- 20 percent of the net value added for crust and finished leather; (3) 10 percent of the gross value added for nonquota garment items; and (4) 10- 20 percent of the net value added for sales of locally produced yarn, hosiery, and handloom fabrics to exporters of garments. May 29. The Cash Against Documents facility ceased to be provided to buyers of raw jute, and all exports of raw ju te were permitted only against irrevocable letters of credit. May 31. Exporters of ready-made garments, ho- siery, specialized textile, and pure silk products using locally produced fabrics were granted cash assistance calculated at 10 percent of the value of local fabrics, in lieu of the duty drawback facility on duty-paid imported chemicals used in the produc- tion of finished fabrics. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, atBDS$2 = US$1. On December 31,1990, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0400, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates include com- mission charges of 0.125 percent buying and 2.0 percent selling, against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875 percent buying and 2.0 percent selling, against the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Bar- bados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$1.6901 and BDS$1.7801, respectively, per Can$l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$1.3109 and BDS$1.3845, respectively, per DM 1; and those for the pound sterling were BDS$3.7835 and BDS$4.0074, respec- tively, per £ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional mon- etary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) coun- tries1 at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.1875 percent) but purchases only East Caribbean dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the pur- chase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the commission that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in CARICOM currencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for pri- vate sector remittances abroad (except for remit- tances for payment of imports, travel allowances, education, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500, and certain other specified items) are subject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. The Central Bank periodically obtains forward cover in the international foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the Central Govern- ment's exchange risks associated with foreign ex- change loans that are not denominated in U.S. dol- 1The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. lars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain for- ward cover in the international markets. Swap transactions in U.S. dollars are entered into be- tween the Central Bank and commercial banks, while commercial banks may freely switch between nonregional currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and the alloca- tion of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system stipulates that foreign exchange should nor- mally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resi- dent in South Africa. Trade controls are admin- istered by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an Exter- nal Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries, other than Jamaica, must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue CARICOM traveler's checks denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars to Barbadian resi- dents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. With effect from November 1, 1990, the Bank of Jamaica suspended the bilateral clearing arrangements with other regional central banks. As a result, settle- ments with residents of Jamaica are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, autho- rized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of resi- dents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 BARBADOS for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts under the conditions of approval estab- lished at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dollars. They may be credited with pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accounts), and with payments by residents for which the Central Bank has given general or specific permission. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign ex- change required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain pay- ments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Bal- ances in Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARicoM coun- tries require individual licenses. Import-licensing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restriction. Some items on the import-licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while some others are subject to temporary restriction (par- ticularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restriction). Certain imports are prohibited; these include various foodstuffs, blue jeans, and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "negative list" for certain gar- ments, the importation of which is totally pro- hibited if the product is below a minimum c.i.f. value. Individual licenses are also required for im- ports of commodities that are subject to the provi- sions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Bar- bados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agri- cultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to autho- rized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized dealers may release for- eign currency for advance payments for imports into Barbados up to the equivalent of BDS$20,000 (c.i.f.). Payments over BDS$20,000 require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving resi- dents of South Africa, payments for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the applica- tion is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign ex- change for certain payments of a personal nature and for sundry payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$2,000 a person a calen- dar year may be allocated for private travel inside or outside the CARICOM area; and BDS$500 a day, up to BDS$10,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel inside the CARICOM area, and BDS$15,000 outside the CARICOM area), expenses for education abroad (BDS$20,000 a person a year), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$500 a donor a year, subscriptions to newspapers and magazines (BDS$500 a person a year), income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance premiums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital appears to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Outward remittances of funds to overseas insurers or other pension fund administra- tors are subject to a tax of 6 percent. Any person traveling to a destination outside Bar- bados may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$200. Nonresident visitors may freely export any foreign currency they previously brought in. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 43 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any country; these include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is super- vised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months of the date of shipment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are sub- ject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Economic Community. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Travelers to Barbados may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resi- dents are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct in- vestments by residents and the purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and of real es- tate abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an autho- rized depository in Barbados, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control ap- proval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are re- stricted to BDS$20,000 a year for each nonresident beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents under delegated authority, normally up to BDS$500 a do- nor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence as to the validity of the remittance, the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of se- curities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresi- dents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capi- tal sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as fol- lows: for the last five years, at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years, at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years, at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may as- sume short-term liability positions in foreign cur- rencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresi- dents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are private per- sons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold ac- quired in Barbados must be surrendered to an au- thorized dealer, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and in- dustrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. The importation of gold by residents is permitted for industrial purposes and is subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce; no license is required to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 BARBADOS export gold, but exchange control permission is re- quired to do so. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments January 12. Aluminum windows and doors, and parts thereof, were added to the list of items requir- ing import licenses. July 12. Oil, air, and fuel filters for internal corn- bustion engines were deleted from the list of items requiring import licenses. July 20. Wheelbarrows and parts thereof were added to the list of items requiring import licenses. September 13. Ham was added to the list of items requiring import licenses, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc, and the currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. Belgium and Lux- embourg participate with Denmark, France, Ger- many, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism (ERM) of the European Mone- tary System (EMS). In accordance with this agree- ment, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain the spot exchange rates between their currencies and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the pound sterling and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1990, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Rates per: Upper Limit Lower Limit 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas 553.0000 2,109.5000 628.9700 56.5115 2.8193 528.7000 2,016.5500 601.2950 54.0250 2.6953 1,872.1500 64.6050 33.6930 1,789.8500 57.3035 29.8850 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BF 30.8925 and BF 31.0725, respectively, per US$1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free mar- ket rates of exchange. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The Belgian- Luxembourg Administrative Commission has the authority to license trade transactions; it determines import and export policy, but has delegated au- thority to issue import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the Belgian-Luxembourg Union (BLEU), one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is exercised by the Banking and Finance Commission, and in Lux- embourg, by the Luxembourg Monetary Institute (LMI). For purposes of compiling balance of payments statistics, residents are required to transmit to the Belgian-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (BLEI) the following information on all of their professional transactions with foreign countries: amount, cur- rency, economic nature, and country of residence of the foreign party in the transaction. For foreign pay- ments executed by or received through a bank in Belgium or Luxembourg, residents provide this in- formation to their banks; for all other professional foreign transactions, residents report to the BLEI directly, on a monthly basis. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Belgium and Luxembourg notified the Fund, on August 7, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) certain imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG China, Czechoslovakia, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam;1 and (2) certain imports from all other coun- tries outside the BLEU.2 Products for which individ- ual licenses are required include many textile and steel products, certain agricultural products and foodstuffs, coal and petroleum products, dia- monds, semiprocessed gold, and weapons. All other commodities are free of license. Many com- modities subject to individual licensing are also ad- mitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other European Community (EC) countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile prod- ucts from non-EC countries; the BLEU also applies a system of minimum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. Domestic and foreign bank notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for exports of specified commodities to all countries outside the BLEU, such as weapons, strategic products, and agricultural products. Individual licenses are also required for steel products exported to the United States.3 All other exports are free of license. For- eign exchange proceeds f rom exports do not have to be surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. Do- mestic and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. 1 Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of prod- ucts when originating in and shipped from these countries. 2Most imports do not require an import license when imported from the member countries of the EC. 3Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the member countries of the EC. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the BLEU by nonresidents or abroad by residents. There are no restrictions on transactions in Belgian or Luxembourg franc or for- eign currency securities, which may be exported or imported without formality. Banks may freely ac- cept foreign currency deposits from residents or nonresidents. The prior approval from the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capi- tal market by nonresidents and for public bids by nonresidents for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies.4 Franc-denominated bonds may be issued freely on the Luxembourg capital market. They are reported ex post to the Luxembourg Monetary Institute, mainly for statistical purposes. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold. Settlements of gold may be made freely. Imports and transactions in monetary gold are sub- ject to a value-added tax in Belgium at a rate of 1 percent. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement March 5. The two-tier market system was elimi- nated, and all existing restrictions on payments and transfers were eliminated. Administration of Control March 5. Although exchange controls were abol- ished, the Belgian-Luxembourg Exchange In- stitute (BLEI) was maintained for purposes of compiling balance of payments statistics of the BLEU. June 28. All restrictions on acceptance of deposits in Luxembourg francs by banks in Luxembourg were eliminated by the LMI. 4Since January 1,1991, this approval is no longer needed if the foreign company or individual involved is a resident of an EC country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG 47 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) Capital July 1. The issuance of franc-denominated bonds on the Luxembourg capital market ceased to be regulated by the LMI. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at a rate of BZ$1 = US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Belize and the commercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063 per US$1, respectively. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$1.9825 and BZ$2.0175 per US$1, respectively. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, and a num- ber of currencies of member countries of CARicoM.1 A stamp duty of 1.25 percent is levied on all conver- sions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Belize acccepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 14, 1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for the admin- istration of exchange control, which is applicable to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in excep- tional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is reference made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applications for foreign ex- change processed by authorized dealers are reg- ularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. The Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry administers trade controls. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies2 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. aThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for Barbados dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 2Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts The permission of the Central Bank is needed for banks to open external or foreign currency ac- counts. The Central Bank may direct also that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be cred- ited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization from the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods—mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally administered. There are no quota limits or other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Most imports are sub- ject to a stamp duty of 12 percent of the c.i.f. value; the rate of stamp duty on citrus is 25 percent. Im- ports by most of the public sector and certain non- profit entities, imports of an emergency or human- itarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments within certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign exchange: (1) nonbusiness travel by resi- dents, up to BZ$2,500 a person a calendar year; (2) business travel by residents, BZ$500 a day a person, up to BZ$10,000 a year; (3) business or non- business travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, except where payment is made from an exter- nal account or from proceeds of foreign currency; (4) educational allowance, BZ$500 a course a year (apart from a one-time allowance of BZ$1,000 for educational expenses and maintenance); and (5) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank, which grants all bona fide requests. Exports of foreign and domestic bank notes and currency are subject to limits as follows: each trav- eler may carry domestic bank notes up to BZ$100 and the equivalent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 49 except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these limits require the approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when justified. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most export prod- ucts. Export proceeds must be surrendered to au- thorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless directed otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items3 are subject to an ad valorem export duty of 5 percent. Re- exports and transshipments are subject to a 3 per- cent customs administration fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Belize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but there are no restrictions on imports of foreign currency. Resi- dent travelers are required to sell their excess hold- ings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon their return to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require the approval of the Central Bank, but control is liberally administered. 3Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and wild animals. For sugar, the export duty is 2 percent. Direct foreign investment is encouraged and inves- tors benefit from a number of fiscal incentives. Gold Residents may not hold gold except by specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may be neither imported nor exported without the approval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1990 Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. Legislation establishing an export pro- cessing zone in the northern part of the country was enacted. Capital March 1. Legislation widening the scope and im- proving the system of incentives for direct foreign investment was enacted. The maximum period of exemption from import and income taxes was raised to/ 20 years from 15 years for firms that are in the agricultural sector, and for manufacturing firms that are engaged in the labor-intensive method of pro- duction exclusively for export. Legislation promot- ing foreign-owned (offshore) companies whose subsidiaries in Belize would be allowed to invest in various areas of the economy, including agriculture and financial services, was also enacted. These companies would be exempt from income, estate, and stamp taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all non-West African Monetary Union (WAMU) coun- tries, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. Banks may levy a flat commission of CFAF 100 on intra-WAMU transfers, which they may retain. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward ex- change contracts may be arranged, with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance, for pay- ments for specified imports. The maturity period cannot be extended. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's ex- change control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries but, for purposes of certain controls relating to capital flows, the coun- tries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce, Handicrafts and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations, in collaboration with the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to col- irThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. lect, either directly or through banks, financial in- stitutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile bal- ance of payments statistics. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses for goods from Africa, the Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group countries, member countries of the European Community (EC), and Operations Ac- count countries have been abolished. Only imports from countries other than the above-mentioned countries are subject to an import license issued by the Directorate in charge of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious metals re- quire authorization by the Directorate of External Commerce, after consultation with the Minister of Finance. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other coun- tries linked to the French Treasury through an Op- erations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Ac- count country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China and specified socialist countries, however, are made through special accounts.2 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold Foreign Accounts in Francs with authorized intermediary banks. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury is not per- 2There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 51 mitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized intermediary bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized intermediary bank. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Cer- tain agencies have an import monopoly for specified commodities. Imports of goods originating from the EC, the Operations Account countries, and countries be- longing to the ACP group under the Lome Conven- tion are free of import-licensing requirements. All merchandise imports originating from the other countries are subject to prior authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CEAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been im- ported. Import licenses are subject to a tax equiv- alent to 0.85 percent of the c.i.f. value of corre- sponding imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Trea- sury through an Operations Account are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval au- thority has been delegated to authorized intermedi- ary banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Admin- istration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CEAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also subject to prior authorization. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CEAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CEAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. How- ever, with the special authorization of the Minister of Finance, larger allocations may be obtained up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person a trip for tourist travel and up to the equivalent of CFAF 1,500,000 for business travel. The transfer of one half of the net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted, subject to authorization by the Directorate of Monetary and Banking Affairs upon presentation of the appropri- ate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resi- dents traveling to Operations Account countries may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount they take out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any un- utilized foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, subject to adjust- ment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or ob- tained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Ac- count; a maximum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign bank notes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (traveler's checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports to all foreign countries, including the Opera- tions Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports of gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals, however, are subject to prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance, with the exception of articles made of gold with a small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (less than 10 pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomination). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 BENIN Prior authorization for exports of these three prod- uct categories is granted by the central bank or the National Treasury, Receipts from exports must be collected within 180 days after the arrival of the shipment at destination, proceeds must be repatri- ated to Benin through the BCEAO, and they must be sold to authorized banks within 30 days of the contractual due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts with the French Treasury may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from for- eign assets must be collected and surrendered. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area; resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South Af- rica are prohibited. Capital movements between Be- nin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval by the Minister of Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account. Special controls are main- tained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts. All investments abroad by residents of Benin re- quire prior authorization by the Minister of Finance; at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed from foreign borrowing.3 Foreign direct investments in Benin4 must be declared to the Min- ister before they are made. The Minister may re- quest the postponement of the operations within a period of two months. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declara- tion. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not con- stituting a direct investment requires the special Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Benin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 53 authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code (Law No. 90-002 of May 9, 1990) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in in- dustry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to contribute to national development. Fiscal benefits are extended to approved investors under two regimes: the pref- erential and the special regimes. The preferential regime comprises three categories: A, B, and C. Category A applies to small and medium-size enter- prises; Category B, to large enterprises; and Cate- gory C, to very large enterprises. Enterprises falling under Category A must have investments valued at between CFAF 20 million and CFAF 500 million, and employ at least five perma- nent Beninese workers. These enterprises are en- titled to customs duties and levy exemptions on equipment and materials during the investment period (excluding the local roads and statistical taxes) and exemption from income tax for five to nine years, depending on the geographic location of their investment in Benin. Enterprises qualifying for Category B must undertake investments valued in excess of CFAF 500 million (but less than CFAF 3 billion), and employ at least twenty Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from vir- tually all border taxes on imports of equipment and materials for the period the investment is being undertaken, and, for the duration of the invest- ment, they are exempt from export taxes and from taxes on profits. Enterprises qualifying for Category C benefits must undertake investments in excess of CFAF 3 billion. They enjoy the same tax and duty privileges as Category B enterprises. In addition, enterprises in this category are guaranteed stability of tax status for the duration of the agreement. Enterprises qualifying under the special regime are those with investments valued at between CFAF 5 million and CFAF 20 million, and engaged in the provision of services in the health, education, or public works areas. These enterprises benefit from a 75 percent reduction in the applicable border taxes (excluding the local roads and statistical taxes) on imported equipment and materials related to their operations. The modalities of implementing this legislation are set out in Decree No. 91-2 of Jan- uary 4, 1991. Gold An authorization by the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after consultation with the Min- ister of Finance, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tour- ism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments May 15. The import-licensing requirements for imports of goods originating from the EC, the Oper- ations Account countries, and countries belonging to the ACP group under the Lome Convention were abolished. All merchandise imports originating from other countries are subject to prior authoriza- tion from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports and Export Proceeds May 15. All exports were permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of For- eign Trade, with the exception of gold, diamonds, and other precious metals. The Minister of Finance will grant prior authorization in respect of these products, with the exception of articles made of gold with a small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than ten pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomination). Prior authorization for exports of these three product categories is granted by the central bank or the National Treasury. Capital May 9. An Investment Code (Law No. 90-002) providing for a preferential status for foreign and domestic investments in industry, mining, fish- eries, agriculture, and tourism was promulgated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum. Since its introduction in 1974, it has been pegged to the In- dian rupee, which also circulates in Bhutan, at a rate of Nu 1 = Rs 1. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those currencies. If no large transactions are involved, exchange rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quota- tions by the Reserve Bank of India. No other ex- change rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar were Nu 17.85 and Nu 18.35 per US$1, respectively. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transac- tions and provides foreign exchange for most cur- rent and capital transactions. Beginning from July 26, 1985, substantial powers are delegated by the Ministry of Finance to the Royal Monetary Au- thority to release foreign exchange (other than In- dian rupees) for current transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority is in charge of implementing the surrender requirements for proceeds from mer- chandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for imports. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. the Royal Monetary Authority, which has discre- tionary authority to deny foreign exchange for the payment of luxury imports. Customs duties are levied on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at the rate of 30 per- cent of the c.i.f. value and a notional 10 percent profit. Exports of antiques of Bhutanese origin re- quire approval by the Government. Proceeds of ex- ports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Au- thority either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Most invisible payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to approval by the Royal Monetary Authority. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority. Capital All capital transactions must approved by the Ministry of Finance. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Imports and Import Payments All import payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to prior permission from Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the Boliviano (Bs). The official selling rate is determined at an auction held daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia. On Decem- ber 31, 1990, the official selling rate was Bs 3.40 = US$1. The official exchange rate applies to all for- eign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves (Comite de Cambio y Reservas) in the Central Bank. Before each auction, the Committee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the Central Bank will not accept any bids. This floor price is the official exchange rate. The Central Bank is required to offer in all auctions unitary lots of US$5,000 or multiples of this amount. The minimum allowable bid is US$5,000 or multiples of this amount. Successful bidders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the max- imum and minimum bids have been less than 2 per- cent. Since February 1, 1989, sales of foreign ex- change by the Central Bank to the public have been subject to a commission of Bs 0.01 per US$1 over its buy ing rate. Except for the requirement to surrender the net proceeds f rom the exportation of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses, companies, and individuals can buy and sell foreign exchange freely. Successful bids chan- neled through the banking system are voided if the banking institution submitting the bid is not complying with the legal reserve requirement on deposits at the time of the auction. However, banks must maintain a balanced spot position in foreign exchange at all times and sell to the Cen- tral Bank any excess balance at the end of each day. All public sector institutions, including the public enterprises, must purchase foreign ex- change for imports of goods and services through the Central Bank auction market. There is a parallel but tolerated exchange market, in which the exchange rate on December 31, 1990 was Bs 3.39 = US$1 buying and Bs 3.42 = US$1 selling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Bolivia is in charge of operat- ing the auction market for foreign exchange. It is also the enforcing agency for export surrender re- quirements as well as for other exchange control regulations. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank, is in charge of approving public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt- service payments. Arrears are maintained with re- spect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ec- uador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All goods may be freely imported, with the excep- tion of sugar, edible oil, and wheat flour, which are temporarily subject to licensing requirements, and those controlled for reasons of public health or na- tional security. Since January 11, 1990, capital goods have been subject to an import tariff of 5 percent; the tariff is expected to be in place for two years. The customs tariff rate on all other goods (except books and printed materials on which the rate of 2 percent applies) was lowered on March 28, 1990 to 16 per- cent from 17 percent. On August 20, 1990, it was further lowered to 10 percent. Licenses with a valid- ity period of 120 days are required for the importa- tion of edible oil. Importers are required to pay an inspection charge of 1.85 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Since July 26, 1990, residents traveling by air to neighboring countries have been required to pay a travel tax of Bs 100; the travel tax on travel to other foreign destinations is Bs 150. Public sector pur- chases of foreign exchange for debt service must be 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 BOLIVIA approved by the Ministry of Finance and the Cen- tral Bank. Outward remittances of profit are gov- erned by the provisions of Decision Nos. 24 and 80 of the Cartagena Agreement. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be freely exported. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate within three days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign ex- change expenditures undertaken to effect the ex- port. Exports, other than hydrocarbons, are subject to inspection fees at the following differentiated rates: nontraditional products, 1.55 percent; tradi- tional products, 1.60 percent. Until August 1990, exporters of nontraditional products received, at the time of the surrender of foreign exchange receipts, a customs duty rebate certificate (certificado de rein- tegro arancelario (CRA)) equivalent to 10 percent of the net value of exports as determined by the Cen- tral Bank of Bolivia. In August 1990 the rate of the CRA was reduced to 6 percent.1 The certificates are denominated in domestic currency but maintain their value in U.S. dollars, and they may be in multi- ples of US$100. Exporters may transfer the certifi- cates or use them for income tax and customs duty payments, except for the tax on the presumed in- come of property owners. The Compania Minera Boliviana (COMIBOL) and the medium-size mines export their own production, and the Mining Bank exports the production of the small private mines. All exports of goods and services must be effected through documentary letters of credit drawn on domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agen- cies may retain the proceeds from their foreign ex- change purchases from invisible transactions, in- cluding those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased only from the commercial banks or from the Central 1 Legislation was approved for the elimination of the CRA in January 1991, and it came into effect on March 15, 1991. Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but government receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sec- tor agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. Under Supreme Decree No. 19732 of Au- gust 11, 1983, financial institutions in Bolivia may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the external sector with resources from international financial institutions, foreign govern- ment agencies, or external lines of credit. Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, banks are authorized to conduct foreign trade oper- ations, such as letters of credit, bonds and guaran- tees, advances and acceptances, loans for required financing with their correspondents abroad, and other operations generally accepted in international banking, in favor of the country's exporters and importers. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those in- volving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law. In August 1990, the Investment Law of December 14, 1981 was re- placed by another Investment Law, under which domestic and foreign investors are treated equally. The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and Mining Code. Certain foreign investments are sub- ject to Decision Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, gold may be traded freely, subject to a tax of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Capital goods were subject to an import tariff of 5 percent. March 28. Import tariffs on all goods other than capital goods were lowered to 16 percent from 17 percent. August 20. Import tariff rates on all goods were unified at 10 percent, except for books and printed materials on which a reduced rate of 2 percent would apply, and for capital goods on which a tem- porary rate of 5 percent would apply until Jan- uary 31, 1992. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 57 Payments for Invisibles January 11. A tax on air travel by residents of Bs 100 to neighboring countries and Bs 150 to other destinations was introduced. r r , . r . n , Exports and Export Proceeds r August 20. The rate of customs duty rebate certifi- cate (CRA) was reduced from 10 percent to 6 per- cent of the net export value. Capital September 17. Congress approved an Investment Law covering all sectors except mining and hydro- carbons, under which domestic and foreign inves- tors are treated equally. A new law was also passed for the mining and hydrocarbons sector, opening ., ./f.,.. J. . . . .., f . up the possibility of joint ventures with foreign investors and the state-owned mining company and petroleum company. (The law came into effect, retroactively, on September 15.) £ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of a weight of approximately 65 percent for the South African rand and of approximately 35 percent for the SDR. On December 31, 1990, the closing middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, was P 1.8713 per US$1; on the same date, the rate for the SDR was P 2.6596 per SDR 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other dealing currencies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. For information only, middle rates are quoted for certain other cur- rencies.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. External borrowings by parastatals are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk Sharing Scheme. Under the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4 percent are fully borne by the borrower, while risk associated with fluctuations between 4 percent and 15 percent is borne by the borrower and the Government on a 50:50 and 25:75 ratio, respectively. Risk associated with exchange rate fluctuations in excess of 15 percent is fully borne by the Govern- ment. The scheme is symmetrical in that the bor- rower and the Government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. Forward exchange cover is also offered by the commercial banks. The period for which forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign currency proceeds from the exportation of goods is six months. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and De- velopment Planning has delegated most of the ad- ministration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has delegated considerable powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South African rand, Swiss francs, and Zimbabwe dollars. 2Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, European Currency Units, and SDRs. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign coun- tries must normally be made or received in a foreign currency or through a nonresident-held pula ac- count in Botswana. Botswana does not maintain any bilateral payments agreement. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland; there are generally no import restrictions on goods moving between the four countries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods imported directly into Botswana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domes- tic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they meet certain local value-added requirements and are not intended for re-export. Import shipments of less than P 2,500 are exempt from exchange controls. Applications in respect of forward purchases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports when the contract covers a period exceeding six months must be referred to the Bank of Botswana. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account. For a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, permits are required before export is allowed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve a range of current payments within limits is delegated to commercial banks. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel by per- manent residents is the equivalent of P 12,000 a calendar year for an adult (P 6,000 for a child). The allowance for business travel by permanent resi- dents is P 600 a day, up to a maximum of P 35,000 a 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 59 calendar year. The amount of unused foreign cur- rency for travel that a resident can retain for future travel use is the equivalent of P 1,000 in currency or traveler's checks; any excess amount must be sur- rendered within two months of the date of return in the case of currency notes and coins, and six months in the case of traveler's checks. The basic foreign study allowance for permanent residents is P 3,000 a month a person and P 5,000 a family, with a vacation travel allowance of P 2,000 a year. The an- nual limit on outward remittances by a temporary resident on contract is P 25,000 or 50 percent of eligible salary, whichever is greater; for a self- employed temporary resident, the limit is P 25,000. Separately, travelers may take out domestic bank notes and foreign currency in amounts of P 500 and P 1,000 respectively, and may freely bring in any amount of domestic bank notes and coins. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the maintenance by residents of foreign currency accounts with banks abroad in proven cases of commercial need for such a facility. The delegated limits up to which authorized dealers may approve transfers of divi- dends and profits to nonresidents without refer- ence to the Bank of Botswana is P 75,000 a year for each company; payments in excess of this limit may be authorized by the Bank of Botswana. Capital Pension and life assurance funds may invest up to one half of their funds abroad. Applications for in- vestment abroad of other funds are treated on their merits and in light of possible benefits to Botswana. Foreign inward investment in new or existing busi- nesses is generally encouraged. Non-resident- controlled companies (including branches of for- eign companies) may borrow, as part of the local financing of capital and working capital purposes, up to P 300,000. Applications for local borrowing in excess of P 300,000 by nonresident-controlled com- panies may be considered by the Bank of Botswana, provided that the resulting debt-equity ratio will not exceed 4:1. Equity is defined as paid-up capital, reserves, and retained earnings. The 4:1 limit may be exceeded, if there is evidence that the project will provide a specialist skill to Botswana or will create significant employment. Any external borrowing by a local business must have at least a three-month grace period. Departing temporary residents are entitled to a basic remittable terminal allowance of up to P 25,000. Permanent residents are eligible for an emigration allowance of up to P 150,000. The balance of assets may normally be remitted in equal installments over three years from the date of depar- ture, but faster remittances may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Changes During 1990 Payments for Invisibles September 1. The Bank of Botswana authorized travel agents and major hotels to purchase, from nonresident travelers, foreign traveler's checks and foreign bank notes; to accept foreign credit cards, commercial letters of credit, and similar bills of ex- change; and to sell foreign currency to such trav- elers against foreign currency and/or unutilized pula acquired from legally imported foreign currency. Capital September 1. (1) Authorized Depositors (Autho- rized Dealers) were permitted to effect transactions relating to purchase and sale of securities of a port- folio investment nature involving nonresidents, subject to certain conditions; and (2) the Bank of Botswana allowed immediate repatriation of the proceeds of any disinvestment by foreign investors, up to a maximum of P 50 million. Repatriation of amounts exceeding this limit were permitted on deferred terms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Cruzeiro (Cr$). Since March 16, 1990, Brazil has followed a flexible ex- change rate policy under which the cruzeiro floats independently with respect to the U.S. dollar in an interbank exchange market. Exchange transactions in the exchange market are carried out by the Central Bank of Brazil and by banks and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies deal only in bank notes and traveler's checks in a "manual mar- ket." On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates quoted by the Central Bank to the public for approved exchange transactions in the interbank exchange market were Cr$168.59 and Cr$170.06, respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates apply to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the respective currencies in New York and Europe. Foreign exchange transac- tions for amounts exceeding US$100,000 are subject to brokerage fees. These fees, which are freely ne- gotiated between parties, are calculated on a sliding scale and result in effective rates of up to 3/i6 of 1 per- cent on either side of the rates. A different effective rate arises, on the selling side, from the application of a financial transactions tax (imposto sobre operagoes de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operagoes relativas a titulos e valores mobiliarios) (IOF) of 25 percent to purchases of foreign exchange for imports of selected services. Different effective rates arise, on the buying side, from the operation of a "manual market" in which the exchange rate for receipts from tourism is freely determined by par- ticipants in the market. Global limits are fixed for the authorized banks' sold positions in foreign exchange up to US$5 mil- lion; there is no limit on bought positions. Banks that are authorized to operate exclusively in the manual market and tourist agencies are permitted to maintain a free bought position but may not maintain a sold position. Authorized banks are re- quired to deposit foreign exchange at the Central Bank overnight in amounts that are needed to elimi- nate an overbought position exceeding US$1 mil- lion. The banks are permitted to sell foreign ex- change to each other without restrictions; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis, and must be executed within 2 working days for spot transac- tions or not later than 180 days for forward transac- tions. The commercial banks are permitted to provide forward exchange facilities to exporters, usually for a period of up to 180 days. The banks provide daily forward quotations for foreign curren- cies, with forward premiums reflecting correspond- ing interest differentials between the countries con- cerned. Commercial banks are not subject to daily limits on bought positions in foreign exchange. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council (CMN) is respon- sible for formulating overall foreign exchange pol- icy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange controls, regulations af- fecting foreign capital, and the management of in- ternational reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX), a board headed by the Minister of Economy, Fi- nance, and Planning, formulates foreign trade pol- icy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Council's executive arm for dealing with foreign countries, while the Department of Foreign Trade of the Minis- try of Economy, Finance, and Planning (DECEX) im- plements the Council's decisions within Brazil. The DECEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exportagao or dedaragaos de exportagao and guias de importagao). The Customs Policy Commission (CPA), estab- lished within the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, is responsible for formulating guide- lines for tariff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The Ministry of Economy, Fi- nance, and Planning coordinates public sector im- port policy. In accordance with Fund's Executive Board Deci- sion No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Brazil notified the Fund, on October 3, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 61 Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries1 are made in clear- ing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Brazil and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or special payments arrange- ments are made in U.S. dollars or other freely us- able currencies. Foreign Exchange Accounts Since October 30,1986, exporters, importers, na- tional companies with foreign capital participation, and official institutions in the field of education and technological research have been authorized to open foreign exchange accounts in U.S. dollars at the Central Bank. On June 29, 1988, foreign ex- change accounts held by exporters and importers began to be gradually abolished, and were abol- ished in February 1989; however, effective Novem- ber 16,1989, they have been allowed to operate such accounts again, although funds on these accounts must be transferred to the Central Bank. The Cen- tral Bank is permitted to receive foreign currency deposits from abroad, provided that the holders of such deposits are national or foreign financial in- stitutions. Companies whose foreign capital par- ticipation is registered at the Central Bank continue to be authorized to open foreign exchange accounts. These accounts can be credited with funds from new foreign direct investments and reinvestments, reserve profits, consolidated surplus, profit remit- tances, and returns and gains from capital remit- tances. Deposits are remunerated at the LIBO rate, and withdrawals require 90 days' prior notice, or 30 days in cases of deposits from profits or dividends and sales of investments and participating capital stocks. 1 Bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Bulgaria. Negotiations are in progress to terminate an agreement that was maintained with the former German Democratic Republic. Bilat- eral accounts are also maintained with Hungary and Romania, but settlements are made in third-country currencies every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered with DECEX, and goods can be imported only by registered firms or persons. Imports may be grouped into the following three broad categories: (1) imports that are free of requirements to secure prior administrative docu- mentation, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require an import certificate, which is issued by DECEX; and (3) imports that are prohibited (luxury boats with an original sale price of US$3,500 or more, agrochemical products not authorized under Brazilian regulations, certain drugs that are not li- censed for reasons of security, health, or moral rea- sons, as well as for reasons of industrial policy). There is also a limitation on the direct importation of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public sector (the Government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises).2 Most imports require the prior approval of DECEX, which is given automatically to registered importers of nonprohibited items.3 DECEX is authorized to levy a processing fee of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 60 days, 90 days, or 180 days, depending on the product. For special bonded warehouse im- porters, DECEX issues clearance certificates for cer- tain groups of commodities. For a number of spec- ified imports, the import certificate may be obtained after the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. It is a prior condition for the granting of import certificates that importers arrange external financ- ing with specified minimum maturities.4 The limit on cash imports is US$200,000 an importer, with an additional allowance of US$200,000 for capital goods imports. Minimum financing requirements are as follows: 2 years for capital goods imports; 180 days for parts and components; and 90 days for all other import categories. DECEX is entitled to autho- rize in exceptional cases imports that do not satisfy minimum financing requirements. 2Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the President, an annual investment program incorporating their expected im- port requirements. 3Selected imports are exempted from the requirement of prior approval by DECEX, including imports to the free trade zone of Manaus, wheat and petroleum imports, imports under the draw- back scheme, and imports of goods included in trade agreements negotiated with LAI A member countries. 4Certain specified imports, including imports under the draw- back scheme, direct imports by public administrative bodies, and certain capital goods, are exempt from this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 BRAZIL Certain products require the approval of the Spe- cial Secretariat for Information. For some com- modities, eligibility for exemption from import du- ties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nationals). Goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free trade zones are subject to an annual quota, which was set at US$1.27 billion and US$15 million, respectively, for 1990. Foreign goods imported into the Manaus free trade zone up to the equivalent of US$600 can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. DECEX may approve applications for the pay- ment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of shipment without authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and of the related scheme of pay- ments issued by the Department of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) of the Central Bank. Before shipment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonfi- nanced amount may not exceed 15 percent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts can be closed if the con- tract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on matu- rity, and once the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be set- tled on maturity of the draft; settlement may take place two working days before the maturity date. Exchange contracts for imports financed under let- ters of credit must be closed on the date of settle- ment or two working days before the maturity date of the letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assis- tance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Brazilian residents tem- porarily staying abroad for educational or health purposes may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$1,000 a month in the foreign ex- change market. Payments for other current invis- ibles require the approval of the Central Bank's Exchange Departments (DECAM) or RRCE, which authorize remittances freely, subject to the presen- tation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Personal expenses connected with travel abroad may be obtained up to US$4,000 a person, irrespec- tive of age or destination, in the foreign exchange market, of which US$100 is available in cash and the remainder in traveler's checks. The basic allowances are one half of the preceding amounts for minors between the ages of 2 and 12 years; no allowances are available for infants up to the age of 2 years. A special daily allowance, ranging from US$250 to US$400, is available for business travel and repre- sentation expenses abroad. Applications for pur- chases of foreign exchange for travel in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Brazilian officials traveling abroad in the interest of the Gov- ernment are granted allowances at a rate deter- mined by the Central Bank. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and ad- ministrative assistance are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of the country of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the re- spective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. Profit remittances are subject to with- holding tax on income at a rate of 25 percent or other rate determined under agreements between Brazil and other countries for the purpose of avoiding double taxation. A supplementary income tax ap- plies when profits paid to a foreign investor during a three-year period exceed an average of 12 percent of the foreign currency value of registered capital, at the rates of 40 percent, 50 percent, and 60 percent if the average profit paid is in the ranges of 12-15 per- cent, 16-25 percent, and above 25 percent, respec- tively. Effective July 3, 1989, remittances of profits and dividends became subject to retention at the Central Bank; the remittance of dividends was re- sumed in October, but dividends had to be retained ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 63 at the Central Bank for 60 days. Since June 26,1990, remittances of blocked profits, dividends, royalties, and capital have been allowed gradually by the end of December 1990. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 percent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as well as for technical, scientific, and administrative assis- tance, and the like, may be deducted from the in- come tax liability to determine the taxable income, up to the limit of 5 percent of gross receipts; amounts exceeding this limit are considered as profits. The percentages are the same as those es- tablished in Brazil's tax laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to the financial trans- actions tax (IOF) of 25 percent. Travelers may freely take out domestic and for- eign bank notes. Repurchases of foreign exchange by a foreign traveler are limited to US$100 a trip or to the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amount exchanged into domestic currency during the visit, whichever is smaller. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate (guia de exportagao or declaragao de exportagao) issued by DECEX to ensure compliance with exchange and trade regulations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of several commodities require the prior approval of DECEX, while exports of specified commodities are suspended. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by DECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by government agencies. The foreign exchange proceeds from all exports may be sold in the foreign exchange market. Foreign exchange contracts covering transactions may be closed either before the shipment of goods or within 10 working days of shipment. Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank within 45 days of shipment. The export of hides of wild animals in any form is suspended. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the authorized banks at the prevail- ing market rate. Traveler's checks and foreign bank notes are sold in the manual market. Travelers may freely bring in domestic and foreign currency notes. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans un- der National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) require prior ap- proval from the Central Bank. Prior approval from the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds orig- inate from official financial institutions abroad, when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution, and for other foreign borrowing by the public sector (i.e., the Government, autono- mous agencies, and public enterprises). In addi- tion, prior approval from the Central Bank is re- quired for borrowing by the private sector when the foreign funds originate from financial institutions abroad. Otherwise, inward transfers are unre- stricted and free of control, although the subse- quent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio in- vestment. For the purposes of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. For- eign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment to be used to produce goods or to render services that have entered the country without an initial corresponding expendi- ture of foreign exchange; and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Bra- zilian securities is classified, for purposes of regis- tration, as direct investments or loans, whether im- ported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Di- rect investment is defined as that foreign capital that constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an eco- nomic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is consid- ered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether contracted by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 BRAZIL manufacturer himself or by a third party, is consid- ered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Persons resident abroad may make portfolio in- vestments in Brazilian commercial and industrial securities indirectly by acquiring shares in a Bra- zilian "investment company" quoted on Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registra- tion with the Central Bank and must remain in the country for at least three months. The minimum participation in investment companies by foreign firms or individuals is US$1,000. Portfolio invest- ments are exempt from the capital gains tax. Port- folio investments may also be made through the purchase of quotas of the "Investment Fund— Foreign Capital." The minimum participation in this fund is US$5,000, and the money must stay in the country for at least three months. Funds and other collective investment entities established abroad may maintain, in Brazil, portfolios of bonds and other securities, once their constitution and administration have been previously approved by the Central Bank and the securities and exchange commission. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, the registration is in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not disproportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import-financing loans, that the prices of the im- ported goods correspond to the prices of compar- able goods in the country of origin. Capital entering Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accruing to per- sons or companies resident abroad when they have been reinvested in the same companies that pro- duced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calcu- lated at the average exchange rate prevailing be- tween the date on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their reinvestment. A progressive supplementary in- come tax is levied on distributions of profits and dividends to nonresidents in excess of 12 percent of registered capital and reinvestments over a three- year period; the tax is applied whether or not the profits are remitted abroad, but reinvested earnings are exempt. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, private, commercial, invest- ment, and development banks, and the Banco Na- cional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of fi- nancing working capital. Safeguards against exces- sive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (re- lated to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. Effective July 31, 1990, certain financial institutions are au- thorized to obtain resources from abroad through the issue of commercial papers. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans under this law also require prior central bank authorization, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific ex- change cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a minimum term of one year, but no maximum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to mandatory deposit at the Central Bank. In the case of private enterprises, the deposit applies to 75 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros, and it is released as follows: one third af ter 60 days from the deposit date, one third af ter 90 days, and the bal- ance after 120 days; for public enterprises, the de- posit applies to 100 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros and is released as follows: 20 percent af ter 150 days from the deposit date, 40 percent af ter 180 days, and the balance after 210 days. In addition to these mandatory deposit regula- tions, on June 23,1977, the Central Bank authorized voluntary deposits at the Central Bank by financial and nonfinancial institutions of the outstanding bal- ances of their foreign loans; these deposits may be released only on the maturity dates for payment of principal, interest, and commissions. For as long as the deposit remains with the Central Bank, the Cen- tral Bank covers all costs on these loans, including the exchange cost. Under a program for the management of exter- nal debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quantitative limits on the amount of financial loans for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if ma tu- rities conform to minimum requirements estab- lished f rom time to time by the Central Bank, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZ IL 65 which permits the total of loans ou ts tand ing to rise only to the extent that the servicing commit- ments on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Monetary Council. As of the end of 1989, the Cen- tral Bank's m in imum acceptable ma tu r i ty was set at seven years. However, provided that the fu ll amount of the fore ign exchange remains com- mitted to Brazil for the minimum specified ma tu- rity, loans to the f inal borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made on terms shorter than the final ma tu r i ty of the debt abroad, and these f u n ds may subse- quently be re-lent to the same or to a second bor- rower. Under the provisions of debt-rescheduling agreements, a similar mechanism applies to the foreign exchange equivalent of a f fec ted principal rescheduled with foreign commercial banks in 1989, subject to yearly quantitative limits. Transfers of proceeds from sales of property and inheritance are permitted up to the limit of US$300,000 or its equivalent in other currencies, provided that they are made through authorized dealers with supporting documentation. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization by DECAM and FIRCE, which consider applications on their merits. Approved ex- change transactions involving outward transfers of private capital are effected through authorized banks at the prevailing official market rate. Gold Firms authorized by the Government may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Brazil under Decree No. 1,038 of October 21, 1969. Gold mining is con- ducted under Law No. 4425 of October 8, 1964. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold is subject to a mining tax of 1 percent, plus FINSOCIAL fees (an income tax surcharge and a sales tax) (0.6 percent) and PIS/PASEP (Programa de Integragao Assistenda Social de Empregados Publicos) contribu- tions (a levy on the wage bill payable by employers) (0.75 percent), due on each transaction, unless the operation takes place in the financial market when the FINSOCIAL fees are due on the profits of the firm. The Central Bank is empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic market at domestic prices (CMN Resolution 1182 of April 4, 1986). Purchases of gold are made at current domestic prices; the interna- tional price is considered as a target price. Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by DECEX and authorization by the Cen- tral Bank. Exports of gold are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through DECEX in respect of other products, but the Central Bank is always the alternative buyer. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement March 15. The new cruzado (NCz$) was replaced by a new monetary unit, the cruzeiro (Cr$) at the rate of NCz$l = Cr$ 1. March 16. The Central Bank introduced an official foreign exchange interbank market. The following transactions would take place in this market where the exchange rate is to be determined freely: import and export transactions; profit and divided remit- tances; capital repatriation; debt-service payments; and approved foreign investments. Imports and Import Payments March 16. Annual import programming and the negative import list (ANEXO C) were largely elimi- nated. The monopoly of federal government agen- cies over importing products for reasons other than health, national security, and other specified public interests was eliminated. March 29. The conditions for exemptions from duties, VAT, and other taxes on imports of equip- ment for scientific and industrial research were announced. April 12. Exemptions from duties and IPI on all imports (including public enterprises) were res- cinded, with the following exceptions: (1) imports by government administrations, political parties, educational, social, and scientific institutions, dip- lomatic missions, and international organizations; (2) imports under international agreements; (3) imports of the national petroleum company (PE- TROBRAS); (4) books, newspapers, and periodicals; (5) basic foodstuffs; (6) fertilizer; (7) spare parts and components for the repair and maintenance of ships and airplanes; and (8) goods for processing in duty-free zones. In addition, the tax rate of the "Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacao da Marina Mercante" (AFRMM) was reduced by 50 percent. May 3. Some one thousand two hundred prod- ucts on the prohibited import list (ANEXO C) were liberalized. The tariff rates on some three hundred products (in the categories of chemicals, electrical and electronic goods, motor vehicles, watches, and toys) were raised. June 26. The local content requirement for firms that enjoy certain fiscal incentives, public financing, or public procurement was reduced to 70 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 BRAZIL August 21. The tariff rate on beef was reduced to zero. August 27. The limits on imports through the Manaus and Tabatinga free trade zones for 1990 were set at US$1.27 billion and US$15 million, respectively. September 21. External financing requirements on certain imports were eliminated. September 24. The tariff rates on 100 items (includ- ing petrochemicals, steel, and car parts) were re- duced, on average, by 50 percent. Payments for Invisibles June 26. It was announced that remittances of profits, dividends, and royalties would be freed gradually. Exports and Export Proceeds May 7. The Brazilian Coffee Institute, which regu- lated exports of coffee, was abolished. April 12. Income tax incentives on manufactured exports and a number of sectoral and regional fiscal incentives for exporters were eliminated. October 31. Exports of coffee were subject to the same regulations as those governing other exports. Capital June 26. It was announced that repatriation of capital would be freed gradually. July 31. Certain financial institutions were al- lowed to obtain resources from abroad by issuing commercial papers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA1 (Position on March 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement2 The currency of Bulgaria is the Lev. The Bul- garian National Bank (formerly National Bank of Bulgaria) quotes daily the exchange rate of the lev in terms of the U.S. dollar based on developments in the domestic interbank exchange market. This rate is called the central exchange rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined by their cross rate relationships with the U.S. dollar in the interna- tional exchange market. On March 1, 1991, the ex- change rate quoted by the Bulgarian National Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar was leva 19.796 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Minis- try of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank. The Bulgarian National Bank is responsible for imple- menting the exchange rate policy. Eleven commer- cial banks and one financial institution conduct for- eign exchange (forex) transactions. In 1990, 59 new commercial banks were established on the basis of the previous branches of the Bulgarian National Bank, and 14 banks were licensed in early 1991 to operate as commercial banks, of which only 2 banks are currently in operation. One of the 59 banks, the Vuzrajdane Bank (a joint stock company), is li- censed to conduct forex transactions abroad. New banks are authorized to open foreign currency ac- counts for residents, and some are permitted to have foreign banks as correspondents or to borrow directly abroad provided that they do not request a guarantee from the Government. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. aThe Republic of Bulgaria became a member of the Interna- tional Monetary Fund on September 25, 1990. 2Until the end of 1990, most of Bulgaria's trade and financial settlements with member countries of the CMEA were effected in transferable rubles (TR) through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC). The official exchange rate for the transferable ruble was set at leva 1.30 per TR 1, and the commer- cial rate, at leva 1.05 per TR 1. Exchange rates for noncommercial transactions were also established with CMEA member coun- tries on the basis of parity between the lev and the transferable ruble. As of January 1,1991, this system of settlement in transfer- able rubles was phased out, except for a limited number of transactions related to the clearing of claims and liabilities that were accumulated under the previous system. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Bulgaria notified the Fund, on December 21, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Bul- garia has bilateral agreements are made in the cur- rencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 Transactions are gener- ally settled through clearing accounts. Balances in these accounts are generally to be settled in goods (annual and multiyear) during the six months after the termination of the agreement; thereafter, they are settled in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts, which may be credited without restric- tion, and from which transfers may be made freely for transactions that are permitted under the exist- ing exchange control regulations. Balances on these accounts earn interest at international market rates. Nonresidents may maintain accounts in foreign cur- rencies without any specific requirement on autho- rization, limitation, or restriction. The crediting and debiting of these accounts are not subject to any regulations, and transfers abroad from these ac- counts are free of restriction. Imports and Exports There are no import quotas, and most imports are subject only to declaration and registration at the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations for statisti- cal purposes.4 The import customs tariff system is 3At the end of February 1991, Bulgaria had bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Islamic Republic of Iran, Dem- ocratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malta, Mozambique, Nic- aragua, Pakistan, Peru, Romania, Tanzania, and Tunisia. 4Licenses are required for transactions under barter and clear- ing arrangements, exports under government credits, for exports subject to quotas and voluntary export restraint agreements, for transactions in products made by monopolistic firms (e.g., wine and tobacco), and for special products, such as precious metals. Licenses are normally granted within seven working days. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA based on the harmonized system of nomenclature. There are separate tariffs for imports from 42 low- income countries (total exemptions), for imports from other developing countries (preferential rates), for imports from developed countries that grant most-favored-nation (MFN) treatment to Bul- garia, and for imports from countries that do not grant MFN treatment to Bulgaria. Tariffs on indus- trial goods generally do not exceed 10 percent (the maximum is 13.8 percent); tariffs on agricultural products range from zero to 90 percent. However, the MFN clauses apply to most of these duties. A temporary import tax of 15 percent is applied to a range of products, mostly consumer goods. Tariffs are calculated on the transaction values (actual in- voice price paid) in foreign currency and converted to leva. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within one month but do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Under Government Decree No. 13 (February 8, 1991), as amended by Decree No. 73 (April 22, 1991), export taxes are levied on a variety of products. The range of rates is as follows: (1) 30 percent on the lev equivalent of the forex proceeds from exports of wheat, animal livestock, meat and meat products, and cheese; and (2) 20 percent on the lev equivalent of proceeds from exports of 26 items, including gasoline, diesel fuel, synthetic textile fibers, ferrous and nonferrous metals and their shaped products, steel tubes, zinc and lead ingots (spelter), electrolytic copper, soda ash, timber, all sorts of packing and wrapping mate- rial, soaps and detergents, textiles, garments and clothing, electric batteries, and medicines and phar- maceuticals. Taxes on the above-mentioned items are exempt when they are exported under barter operations approved by the Government or similar arrangements. Exports of 26 products are banned, including phosphate fertilizers, PVC, unprocessed leather and furs, wool, cotton, linen, silk, fodder, beans, rice, powdered milk, sugar, edible fats and oils, and ferrous and nonferrous metal scrap. However, the Government may lift the ban on a case-by-case basis. Exports of meat and meat products to the European Community (EC) are subject to EC quotas. Special licenses are required for exports and im- ports of tobacco leaves and products; liquors, wines, and beer; essential oils; military hardware and related technologies; endangered flora and fauna; radioactive materials; crafts and antiques; intellectual property; jewelry; and rare and precious metals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are granted without restriction. Allowances for tourist travel are limited to the equivalent of up to US$50 a person a year for people without foreign currency deposits. Resident holders of forex de- posits receive unlimited tourist travel allowances. Proceeds from invisibles do not have to be surren- dered and may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange freely to resident individuals or resident legal persons if proper docu- mentation certifies that foreign exchange is needed for education or medical treatment abroad. Remit- tances of earnings by foreign workers and remit- tances for family maintenance are not explicitly mentioned in Decree No. 15 (of February 8, 1991), governing foreign exchange control, but they have been treated implicitly as transfers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports. The latter re- quire prior permission from the Bulgarian National Bank as stipulated by the decree. The exportation and importation of domestic bank notes are prohibited. Capital Residents may borrow abroad without the autho- rization of the Bulgarian National Bank. The forex licensed commercial banks, however, may borrow abroad only if they do not request a guarantee of the Government of Bulgaria and if their borrowing com- plies with the prudential regulations set up by the Bulgarian National Bank. They may also extend for- eign currency and leva loans to residents and nonresidents. Foreign direct investments in Bulgaria are gov- erned by Decree No. 56 of 1989, as amended in 1990 and 1991. Nonresidents may own domestic enter- prises partly or fully, or may enter into joint-venture arrangements, subject to authorization, when the foreign share exceeds 49 percent in limited liability firms and 20 percent in joint-stock firms. Foreign direct investments must be registered but require authorization only if they are undertaken in sectors that are considered sensitive. Foreign direct invest- ments are guaranteed against expropriation, except for nationalization through legal process. Foreign firms are granted the same status as domestic firms; they may, under certain conditions, benefit from preferential treatment, including reduced taxation and access to judicial appeal outside the system of state arbitration. In general, fully owned foreign firms are subject to a profit tax of 40 percent, and joint ventures are subject to a profit tax of 30 per- cent; all other firms with foreign participation are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 69 subject to the same profit tax as domestic firms (40 percent). Repatriation of liquidated capital and after-tax profits is not restricted; however, transfers of profits in domestic currency require a special authorization. Gold The Ministry of Finance controls the acquisition, possession, manufacture, and disposal of gold and all precious metals. The Bulgarian National Bank is the only institution entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold for monetary and nonmone- tary purposes. All domestic transactions for indus- trial purposes must be conducted at current prices through the Bulgarian National Bank. Commercial banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (on their own or on their customers' behalf) in precious metals, with the exception that the Bulgarian For- eign Trade Bank is licensed to deal in silver. Resi- dent individuals may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold and jewelry products they may import is limited. Nonresidents are per- mitted to bring in and take out their jewelry but may not trade. Nonresidents must have permission from the Ministry of Finance to buy gold and silver products. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement May 2. The exchange rate system applicable to convertible currencies was changed (Decree No. 32). The exchange rate system would consist of three rates: (1) a basic rate pegged to a basket of currencies that would apply to official transfers and imports of essential products; (2) a market rate to be determined at periodic foreign exchange auctions that would be used for most commercial transac- tions; and (3) a cash rate based on prevailing condi- tions in the market that would apply to transactions by individuals in bank notes and traveler's checks. The basic rate and the cash rate were initially set at leva 2.97 per US$1 and leva 7.17 (middle rate) per US$1, respectively. May 7. A foreign exchange auction in the amount of US$30 million was conducted; the average ex- change rate was leva 10.03 per US$1. June 4. A foreign exchange auction in the amount of US$30 million was conducted; the average ex- change rate was leva 7.13 per US$1. June 11. The cash rate (middle rate) was adjusted to leva 7.06 per US$1. November 20. The exchange rate of the lev for transferable rubles was adjusted from leva 1.05 per TR1 to leva 3.50 per TR1 for exports to the U.S.S.R. under the trade protocol covering imports of crude oil and natural gas. November 27. The cash rate (middle rate) was ad- justed to leva 9.70 per US$1. December 31. The transferable ruble ceased to be the exchange rate at which trade with CMEA mem- ber countries would be settled. From January 1, 1991, settlements would be made in convertible currencies. Imports and Exports April 10. In conjunction with the reform of the exchange system introduced under Decree No. 32, quotas were introduced on exports of 42 items to the convertible currency area. These items included foodstuffs and industrial materials. May 9. Exports of 57 categories of products, in- cluding most foodstuffs, were restricted or pro- hibited until the end of 1990. May 28. Licenses were required for the following transactions: (1) exports to CMEA member coun- tries above the levels set under intergovernmental trade protocols; (2) imports from CMEA member countries; (3) imports under project and technical assistance; (4) exports and imports under barter deals; (5) exports and imports of precious metals; and (6) exports of goods subject to voluntary re- straint agreements. September 13. Under Decree No. 99, exports of selected foodstuffs (meat, grain, beans, milk, and dairy products) were prohibited until the end of March 1991. These bans covered most of the prod- uct items that were covered by Decree No. 32 (see April 10 change, above). October 26. A trade cooperation agreement with the European Community came into effect. It pro- vided for reciprocal granting of most-favored-nation treatment, progressive elimination of quantitative restrictions, and other liberalization of trade regimes. November 14. Exports of foods tuffs that take place under barter deals in exchange for energy products and certain foods tuffs (particularly sugar) were allowed. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The cash rate was adjusted to leva 15 (middle rate) per US$1. February 8. Decree No. 15 introduced a major reform of the exchange system, under which autho- rized dealers (commercial banks and foreign ex- change bureaus) were permitted to sell foreign cur- rencies to residents and to each other at freely ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA negotiated exchange rates. The Bulgarian National Bank quotes daily exchange rates in terms of the U.S. dollar on the basis of developments in the domestic interbank exchange market. Residents may freely purchase foreign exchange for most cur- rent account payments, except for tourism, for which specific limits were established. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within one month but are not required to be surrendered. Imports and Exports February 8 and 15. Decrees Nos. 4 and 13, remov- ing all licensing requirements except for exports subject to quotas, exports under state protocols, and exports and imports under governmental credits, were announced. Export restrictions were imposed on 21 products, export prohibitions were imposed on 12 products, and export taxes (ranging from 20 percent to 30 percent) were imposed on 16 products, including wheat, animal livestock, meat, gasoline, other fuels, fibers, metals, textiles, and medicines. An import tax of 16 percent was levied on most imports. April 22. Under Decree No. 73, export taxes of 20 percent and 30 percent were imposed on 21 es- sential items, and the import tax of 15 percent was exempted on some 200 items, mainly foodstuffs and industrial inputs and spare parts. May 9. The Government decided to abolish all export taxes on livestock, meat, meat products, poultry meat, and cheese. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 = F1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a com- mission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the official and commercial banking sectors, forward exchange cover may only be arranged by residents for settlements with respect to imports of goods on specified lists. All contracts for forward exchange cover must be denominated in the cur- rency of payments stipulated in the contract, and they are subject to the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. Forward exchange contracts may be concluded for a period of one month and may not be renewed; for certain products, the matu- rity period of forward exchange cover may be re- newed once for a period of three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Bur- kina Faso's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cam- eroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Com- oros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance. The 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, opening of external accounts in foreign currency, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized inter- mediaries. The BCEAO is also authorized to col- lect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and jud i- cial agents, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Ad- ministration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Supply. Import certificates for liberalized com- modities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settle- ment takes place with a country outside the Oper- ations Account Area, are visaed by the Customs Administration. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Burkina Faso is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China, Germany, and Ghana3 are channeled through spe- cial accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France, or the country concerned, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs (or in other currencies of the Operations Ac- count Area) through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. 3 A bilateral agreement was negotiated with Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BURKINA FASO Nonresident Accounts BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by an autho- rized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury is pro- hibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from any country for commercial purposes and under any customs regulations may be made freely; prior acquisition of an official import document is neces- sary for imports exceeding values of CEAF 250,000. A special import authorization is required for the following products, subject to quota: sugar; paddy and milled rice; wheat and cereal flour; cement; edible oils; soap; concrete-reinforcing bars; sheet metal; batteries; tires and inner tubes for motorcy- cles and mopeds originating from outside the WAMU; tire-vulcanization products; foam rubber for mattresses; tiles; furniture; bicycle spare parts; polythene bags; cloth; mats and bags made of poly- propylene; printed fabric; bleached and tinted threads; tomato puree; frozen sea fish; PVC tubes; audio and video tapes; oil-carrying tank trucks; used buses; used shoes; small fishing nets; plastic shoes; training shoes originating from outside the WAMU; "DAN FAN!" fabrics; and automated teller machines. In August 1990, the notices concerning imports associated with the lifting of quotas for commercial companies and establishments were repealed. The products concerned, however, remain subject to a special import authorization (ASI); these include PVC tubes, toilet soap, fatty substances used in manufacturing soap, and foam for mattresses. Im- ports of shoes of injected or molded plastic and training shoes have been freely permitted since November 22, 1990. A prior import authorization is required for the following products: tomato puree; tobacco; mineral fuels; some organic chemical products; some card- board products; fishing nets; cast steel and steel products; aluminum; electric devices and ap- pliances; electrotechnical objects; cars; tractors; motorcycles; mopeds; bicycles; and other vehicles. A technical import visa is required for the following products: plants; plant extracts; seeds and fruits used in perfumery or medicine or used as insec- ticides or for any similar purpose; plant extracts and juices; alcoholic beverages; tobacco; inorganic chemical products; organic or inorganic precious metal compounds; organic chemical compounds; pharmaceutical products; fertilizers; explosives and similar flammable materials; various chemical prod- ucts; military uniforms and any men's khaki or olive green clothes; military or police helmets; kepis and bonnets; audio and video tapes; and arms and am- munition. Imports of certain other products, a list of which is established by decree, may be exempted from the import document requirement. The Minis- ter of Commerce and Supply may, on the basis of criteria established by his Ministry, waive the pre- scribed formalities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade area agreement. Most imports are sub- ject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent, an import surcharge of 6 percent, and a statistical tax of 4 percent. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CEAF 500,000. Import li- censes or prior import authorizations entitle im- porters to purchase the necessary exchange not ear- lier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for payment if the commodities have already been im- ported, or at the time of the payment on account if such a payment has to be made before importation. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. Authorized intermediary banks and the Postal Administration are empowered to make payments up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer to foreign countries on behalf of residents without requiring justification. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries may purchase ex- change equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 73 number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Bur- kina Faso must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equiv- alent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Larger allocations are granted, however, for bona fide reasons. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equiv- alent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Residents traveling to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, or any larger amount, if declared upon entry or ac- quired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, or by exchange of foreign traveler's checks. They may take out any foreign means of payment other than bank notes acquired in Burkina Faso by debit to a Foreign Ac- count in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, subject to submission of documentation. They may also take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equivalent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Burkina Faso may be made freely. However, for the purpose of monitor- ing, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization by the competent services of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, except in the case of certain goods, a list of which is established by decree. In accordance with criteria defined by the Minister of Commerce and Supply, exports of certain products may be subject to special regulations. Exports of any product may require prior special authorization from the competent ser- vices of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, de- pending on circumstances. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipu- lated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination). All export transactions relating to foreign countries, including countries in the Operations Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit an export at- testation form. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical duty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or from South Africa. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days after return. Capital All capital movements between Burkina Faso and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements be- tween Burkina Faso and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Burkina Faso. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are op- erations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Burkinabe Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Burkina Faso has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 BURKINA FASO private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Burkina Faso require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance4 and, unless specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance, 75 percent of such investments must be financed from borrowings abroad. Foreign direct investments in Burkina Faso5 must be de- clared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Burkinabe investments abroad or foreign investments in Burkina Faso, must be re- ported to the Minister of Finance. Direct invest- ments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Burkina Faso in vital or priority sectors are required to have Burkinabe par- ticipation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sectors. The sale to residents of Burkina Faso of securities of foreign companies operating in Burkina Faso requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, who estab- lishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Burkina Faso, or by international trading houses previously 4Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons residing in Burkina Faso and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies having their headquarters in Burkina Faso. Including those made by companies operating in Burkina Faso that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Burkina Faso of for- eign companies. approved by the Minister of Finance to finance in- ternational merchanting transactions; (3) loans con- tracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual in- terest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such ap- proval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treat- ment for foreign investment in Burkina Faso, except for enterprises whose capital stock belongs entirely to foreigners. Three preferential categories (A, B, and C) are established, in accordance with which special guarantees and tax and customs incentives may be granted for up to eight years to any enter- prise that undertakes to create or considerably ex- pand activities likely to contribute to the country's economic and social development. Enterprises that the Government deems to be of a priority nature may also be given privileged treatment. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Burkina Faso. Imports and ex- ports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Ex- empt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-lined or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The Comptoir burkinabe des metaux precieux (CBMP) has a monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments August 21. Under Notice No. AN-VIII-063/FP/ CAPRO/SG/DGCE/DEC, the provisions of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 75 notices concerning imports associated with the lift- ing of quotas for commercial establishments and industries were repealed. December 22. Under Notice No. AN-VIII-0433/FP/ CAPRO/DGCE/DEC, imports of new training shoes were freely permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, which is pegged to the SDR. In August 1986, Burundi introduced a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate was to be adjusted periodically to reflect underlying economic condi- tions. On December 28,1990, the exchange rate was FBu 232.14 = SDR 1, and the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were FBu 164.52 and FBu 166.18, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for 19 currencies1 and for two units of accounts (European Currency Units (ECUs) and Units of Ac- counts of the Preferential Trade Area (UAPTAs)) are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (central bank) on the basis of the Burundi franc/ SDR rate and the transaction value of these curren- cies and units in terms of the SDR. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transac- tions at the buying and selling rates established by the central bank for currencies quoted by that bank. An exchange fee of 3 per mill is collected on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to four authorized banks (BANCOBU, BCB, Arab Burundi Bank for Commerce and Investment, and Meridien Bank). Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agree- ments between these countries are effected through convertible currency accounts maintained with the central bank and authorized banks of each signatory country. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the central bank. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, and zaires. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in convertible Burundi francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the central bank, by (1) physical persons of foreign nationality, such as diplomats, who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not considered as residents; (2) juridical persons of foreign na- tionality with special status, such as foreign embas- sies and international organizations; and (3) any other physical or juridical persons authorized by the central bank. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the central bank, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal cur- rent payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange. Up to FBu 20,000 may be with- drawn in bank notes upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket). With- drawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank These ac- counts may bear interest freely and must not be overdrawn. Interest earned must be credited to an ordinary Burundi franc account. Certain nonresidents whose main activities are outside Burundi may maintain Nonresident Ac- counts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to (1) physical and juridical persons of foreign na- tionality who are resident abroad, and (2) any other physical or juridical persons authorized by the cen- tral bank. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the central bank that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs for any payments in Burundi; (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the pur- chase of foreign goods, except for bank notes. These accounts must not be overdrawn. However, they may bear interest with prior authorization from the central bank. The related bank charges and com- missions must be settled in foreign exchange; and (3) as in the case of accounts in convertible Burundi francs, up to FBu 20,000 may be withdrawn upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket). Withdrawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 77 Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from South Africa are prohibited. All imports require licenses, except (1) trade samples without commercial value; (2) merchandise not intended for sale whose declared consumer value c. & f. Bujumbura is FBu 50,000 or less; (3) travelers' personal effects; and (4) gifts and supplies for diplomatic missions and UN agencies. These licenses, used for purposes of payment and statistical control, are automatically granted. Applications for licenses exceeding FBu 25 million must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. The approval of such an application also constitutes an authoriza- tion to obtain foreign exchange. With specified ex- ceptions, authorized banks approve applications for licenses with a value not exceeding FBu 25 million (c. & f. point of landing); applications for amounts in excess of FBu 25 million require the approval of the central bank. An administrative fee amounting to 1 percent of the f.o.b. value of the goods is col- lected at the time of validation of the license. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 1 million in value (f.o.b.) may be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality, quantity, packaging, and price by interna- tional private agencies acting on behalf of the Bu- rundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made avail- able until after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a service tax of 4 percent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer freely up to 50 percent of their net annual income; the propor- tion for those working in firms that export at least 50 percent of their production is 70 percent. The permitted annual transfer is 60 percent of income for experts working for the Government under indi- vidual employment contracts containing a transfer clause and receiving remuneration entirely in Bu- rundi francs. Private joint-stock companies may freely and im- mediately transfer a portion of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign direc- tors, as follows: up to 60 percent of distributed profits (net of corporation tax and the tax on capital income) for industrial and agricultural enterprises; up to 50 percent for commercial and service enter- prises; and up to 80 percent for enterprises that export at least 50 percent of their production. Up to 50 percent of emoluments and dividends paid to foreign directors and auditors are transferable if the recipients are residents, and up to 100 percent if they are nonresidents. Requests for transfer of the balance of the profits are authorized subsequently as follows: 50 percent after two years of saving, and 100 percent after three years. Profits awaiting remit- tance are required to be invested or saved at the Treasury, public agencies, public authorities, or fi- nancial institutions that manage savings; and inter- est earned on such deposits is eligible for transfer. However, these provisions are without prejudice to any larger transfer guarantees granted by the In- vestment Code to enterprises that have been ac- corded special preferential status. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are autho- rized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unreimtted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of rental income from foreign owners of new commercial, industrial, and office buildings is permitted up to 50 percent of net rental income (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses); the remainder, plus any accrued inter- est, may be transferred later, provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institution for two years. Transfer of up to 50 percent is permitted after at least three years of placement in investment or savings bonds. Residents may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel purposes is US$200 a person a day or its equivalent, subject to a maximum limit of 15 days a year; the daily foreign exchange allowance for travel in Africa is US$125 a person. These limits may be increased for travel requiring a longer stay abroad. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued above FBu 10,000 require a prior declaration, which must be presented for certifica- tion by the central bank through an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six months, but ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 BURUNDI extensions may be granted by the central bank. Pay- ments must be collected within 90 days of the date of export declaration at customs. All exchange pro- ceeds from exports must be surrendered to an au- thorized bank within 8 days of their collection. Ex- ports of arabica and robusta coffee from the Rumonge region are the monopoly of the Burundi Coffee Company. Most exports, including coffee, are subject to export taxes. However, under certain circumstances, approved exporters may be ex- empted from paying these taxes. Exports of man- ufactured goods may receive a refund of duties paid, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign bank notes and up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi bank notes. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi or by using a credit card. Payment in Burundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization by the central bank, and in the case of nationals of Zaire or Rwanda who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). Capital Under the Investment Code introduced on July 10, 1986, new investments that fulfill specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of ex- emptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of five years, for other mer- chandise needed for the manufacturing process or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended for up to eight years. Enterprises ac- corded priority status may be granted a reduction or suspension of export taxes and import taxes on equipment and raw materials for renewable periods of five years. In addition to these privileges, com- panies undertaking investments that are consid- ered to be of prime importance to Burundi's eco- nomic development may be granted, under a sepa- rate agreement, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for ten years. An investment commission under the Planning Sec- retariat is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authori- zation. In addition, Burundi guarantees each for- eign investor the right to move into the country; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents and transfers of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted require individual authorization. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises to provide work- ing capital in foreign exchange; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the central bank, is valid for one year, and may be renewed. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate prevailing on the day of transfer. The repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business is also guaranteed. Gold All physical or juridical persons holding gold min- ing permits issued by the Ministers responsible for Mining and Customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burundi. Gold pro- duced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average monthly rates com- municated by the central bank. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the Mining and Customs Departments. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments August 7. The remaining quantitative restrictions on imports of flour, glass bottles, cotton fabric, and Pharmaceuticals were removed. October 4. The limit on import licenses that the commercial banks are permitted to approve was increased to FBu 25 million. Payments for Invisibles May 1. The limit on domestic currency that a traveler may take out of Burundi was increased to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 79 FBu 5,000 from FBu 2,000, while the daily foreign exchange allowance for a business traveler was in- creased to US$200 from US$165 a trip. May 1. The proportion of net annual income per- mitted to be transferred freely by foreign nationals residing and working in firms that export at least 50 percent of their production was raised to 70 percent. Capital May 1. The share of the return on foreign capital and the share allocated to foreign directors that was permitted to be transferred freely was increased to 60 percent of distributed profits for agricultural and industrial enterprises, and to 80 percent for firms that export at least 50 percent of their production. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Ex- change transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports cov- ered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances and official representation expenses paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance pre- miums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to the Operations Account countries must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. Forward exchange cover requires the prior autho- rization of the exchange control authorities. It must be denominated in the currency of settlement pre- scribed in the contract, and the maturity period must not be less than three months or exceed nine months. Settlements must be effected within eight days of the maturity date of forward contract. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Economic Controls and External Finance in 1The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions re- lating to all countries must be effected through au- thorized intermediaries —that is, the Postal Admin- istration and authorized banks. Import licenses for goods other than gold are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and those for gold by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy. Export li- censes are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Ar- rears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments between Cameroon and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Transactions of accounts in CFAF by nonresidents are permitted freely; ac- counts of nonresidents in foreign currency are not permitted to be credited or debited in CFAF. Resi- dents are not permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon or abroad, and resi- dents and nonresidents are not permitted to main- tain accounts in CFAF abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa and imports of tobacco from Malawi are prohibited. Some imports from countries outside the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are subject to quan- titative restrictions. Certain other imports require technical licenses, proving that they are for use by professionals. Certain other imports are prohibited for political, ecological, health, or safety reasons. Surcharges apply to imports from non-UDEAC countries. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 81 All import transactions valued at more than CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank if the goods are not considered in transit. Transactions involving transit goods must be domiciled with a foreign bank. Advance import de- posits are permitted if underlying contracts stipu- late them. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely, subject to declaration. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For busi- ness travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max- imum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. In practice, additional allocations are granted. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in princi- ple, to up to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of repair costs and payments of tax. Remittances for current repair and manage- ment of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on the number of dependents abroad, the transfer of 20 percent or 50 percent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cam- eroon temporarily and insured previously, pay- ments of insurance premiums to foreign countries are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the Operations Ac- count may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from ex- ports to all countries must be repatriated within 60 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange con- trol. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area may transfer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the controls on capital movements do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign se- curities and titles embodying claims on nonresi- dents must be deposited with an authorized inter- mediary and be classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 CAMEROON Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits or they do not exceed 20 percent of the fair market value of the company being purchased. The full or partial liqui- dation of such investments requires only a report after the fact to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct in- vestments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cam- eroon requires only reporting to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroo- nian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Fi- nance within 20 days following each operation. Di- rect investments are defined as investments imply- ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Finance and must subse- quently be reported to him. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, and subject only to a report after the fact are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cam- eroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cameroon. must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization and require only a report: (1) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the fi- nancing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or be- tween foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not ex- ceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. The Investment Code of November 1990 aims to promote the development of natural resources, job creation, production and exportation, especially of manufactures, and the transfer of appropriate tech- nology. Under the Code, generalized fiscal benefits are provided to encourage exports and the develop- ment of natural resources and further benefits are provided to enterprises qualifying for inclusion in one of five regimes. The generalized fiscal benefits include an exemp- tion of export duties and taxes on insurance and transportation for exports and a deduction of 5 per- cent of the value of exports from the exporter's tax- able income. In addition, firms are exempted under certain conditions from all duties and purchase taxes on raw materials or intermediate inputs pro- duced in Cameroon or in the UDEAC region. The new code grants fiscal benefits to domestic and foreign firms undertaking new projects in the raw material processing, mining, forestry, agriculture, fishing, food, construction, equipment mainte- nance, industrial research, and tourism sectors. These benefits are provided under five regimes, as follows: (1) The basic regime applies to firms whose investment is labor intensive (defined as one job per ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 83 CFAF 10 million investment), that are export- oriented, or that use domestic natural resources. Dur- ing a three-year installation phase, firms under this regime are entitled to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, including their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, they are entitled to cer- tain fiscal exemptions. During a five-year exploitation phase certain tax exemptions are maintained. (2) The small and medium-size enterprise regime applies to firms that are labor intensive (defined as one job per CFAF 5 million investment), whose investment is of modest size (less than CFAF 1.5 billion), and where Cameroonian participation is at least 35 percent of capital. The benefits under this regime are the same as those under the basic regime, except that during the exploitation phase of seven years, firms may de- duct from taxable income 25 percent of salaries paid to Cameroonian nationals. (3) The strategic regime ap- plies to enterprises declared strategic by the Cam- eroonian authorities and fulfilling certain other condi- tions. The installation phase is 5 years and receives the same benefits as those under the basic regime. The exploitation phase is 12 years, and receives the same benefits as under the small and medium-size enter- prise regime. (4) The free trade zone regime is avail- able to enterprises that are devoted exclusively to exporting; terms are fixed by individual agreements. (5) Firms that expand by more than 20 percent or satisfy certain other conditions are eligible for benefits under the reinvestment regime. For a period of three years, firms are subject to a reduced tax rate of 15 per- cent, which includes their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax and all other import taxes relat- ing to imported inputs; in addition, they are entitled to certain fiscal exemptions. Law No. 90/19 of August 10, 1990 provides that Cameroonian interest should hold at least one third of the share capital of each banking institution. This law also requires banks with foreign majority par- ticipation to submit to the monetary authorities in- formation on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Foreign man- agers must be approved by the monetary authorities and reside in Cameroon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the ap- proval of the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy, which autho- rizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy and by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1990 Capital August 10. Law No. 90/19 was promulgated. The main provisions of the law were as follows: (1) Cam- eroon interest in the share capital of each banking institution must be at least 33 percent; (2) banking institutions with foreign majority participation must submit to the monetary authorities informa- tion on all of their current transactions abroad and obtain prior approval for any changes in the struc- ture of their equity holdings; and (3) foreign man- agers must be approved by the monetary authorities and reside in Cameroon. November 8. The investment code of July 1984 was replaced by a new code, under which generalized fiscal benefits were provided to promote exports and the development of natural resources and fur- ther benefits were provided to enterprises qualify- ing for inclusion in one of five regimes. The code aims to promote the development of natural re- sources, job creation, production and exportation, especially of manufactures, and the transfer of ap- propriate technology. The generalized fiscal benefits include an exemp- tion of export duties and taxes on insurance and transportation for exports and a deduction of 5 per- cent of the value of exports from the exporter's tax- able income. In addition, firms are exempted under certain conditions from all duties and purchase taxes on raw materials or intermediate inputs pro- duced in Cameroon or in the UDEAC region. The new code grants fiscal benefits to domestic and foreign firms undertaking new projects in the raw materials processing, mining, forestry, agriculture, fishing, food, construction, equipment mainte- nance, industrial research, and tourism sectors. These benefits are provided under five regimes as follows: (1) The basic regime applies to firms whose investment is labor intensive (defined as one job per CFAF 10 million investment), that are export- oriented, or that use domestic natural resources. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 CAMEROON During a three-year installation phase, firms under this regime are entitled to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, including their fiscal and customs du- ties, internal turnover tax and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, they are entitled to certain fiscal exemptions. During a five- year exploitation phase certain tax exemptions are maintained. (2) The small and medium-size enter- prise regime applies to firms that are labor intensive (defined as one job per CFAF 5 million investment), investment is of modest size (less than CFAF 1.5 bil- lion), and where Cameroonian participation is at least 35 percent of capital. The benefits under this regime are the same as those under the basic re- gime, except that during the exploitation phase of seven years, firms may deduct from taxable income 25 percent of salaries paid to Cameroonian na- tionals. (3) The strategic regime applies to enter- prises declared strategic by the Cameroonian au- thorities and fulfilling certain other conditions. The installation phase is 5 years and receives the same benefits as those under the basic regime. The ex- ploitation phase is 12 years, and receives the same benefits as those under the small and medium-size enterprise regime. (4) The free trade zone regime is available to enterprises that are devoted exclusively to exporting; terms are fixed by individual agree- ments. (5) Firms that expand by more than 20 per- cent or satisfy certain other conditions are eligible for benefits under the reinvestment regime. For a period of three years, firms are subject to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, which includes their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, they are entitled to certain fiscal exemptions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The Canadian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to main- tain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing exchange rate (midpoint) for the U.S. dollar on De- cember 31, 1990 was Can$0.86 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly determined in the mar- ket, and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Canada notified the Fund, on September 4, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required only for drugs, a few agricultural items, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natural gas, and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. Import per- mits are required for carbon and specialty steel products for monitoring purposes only. For some agricultural items, such as butter and milk, permits are rarely issued, while others may be subject to a quota. Commercial imports of certain products from any source are tightly controlled or prohibited; the main products affected are margarine and used automobiles. Pursuant to the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from the United States is being phased out over a 5-year period starting in 1989. Imports of clothing and certain textile products from low-cost sources are subject to bilateral agree- ments concluded under the Multifiber Arrange- ment that was negotiated within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely dispos- able. The principal legal instrument governing ex- port controls is the Export and Import Permits Act, which controls trade through the establishment of an Export Control List and an Area Control List. The Export Control List identifies all goods that are con- trolled for reasons of security, supply considera- tions, resource upgrading and implementing inter- governmental arrangements. This list includes all items identified in the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls munitions list, indus- trial list of strategic goods, and Atomic Energy List. Permits are required for the export of all goods listed to all countries except the United States. Items on the Atomic Energy List require permits regardless of destination. The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled unless they are specifically exempted by a general permit. At present, two countries are on the Area Control List: the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and South Africa. All exporters are eligible for cer- tain financial facilities operated by the Export De- velopment Corporation, including political risk insurance. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Apart from specific restrictions in the financial, broadcasting, transportation, and ura- nium sectors, inward direct investment is governed by the Investment Canada Act. Under the provi- sions of this Act, new foreign investments are in general subject to notification requirements but not 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 CANADA to review, and direct acquisition of businesses with assets exceeding Can$5 million and indirect acquisi- tions involving assets exceeding Can$50 million are subject to review. In addition, acquisitions below these limits and investments to establish new busi- nesses in culturally sensitive sectors may be re- viewed. Investments that are subject to review are required only to pass a test of yielding net benefit to Canada. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or outward portfolio investment. Although higher ratios may be autho- rized on a case-by-case basis, in general the domes- tic assets of a foreign-owned bank operating in Can- ada must not exceed 20 times its authorized capital; the total domestic assets of all non-U.S. banks must not exceed 12 percent of the total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada.1 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products containing gold to countries named in the Area Control List require an export permit from the Minister of Exter- nal Affairs, under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles con- taining minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing one ounce of gold, have also been 1 Under the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, in- vestment review thresholds for U.S. investors are being raised to Can$150 million by 1992 for direct acquisitions and are to be phased out altogether for indirect acquisitions, while restrictions with respect to market shares and asset growth of U.S. bank subsidiaries have been liberalized. issued since 1979. In 1982, Can$5 and Can$10 coins containing Vio and lk an ounce of gold, respectively, were issued; in 1986, a coin containing l/2 an ounce of gold with a face value of Can$50 was issued. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments January 4. The Revenue Canada Customs and Excise (RCCE) determined that imports of textured polyester yarn from Mexico involved minimal dumping and had not caused injury to domestic producers. May 3. Following a finding of injury by the Cana- dian International Trade Tribunal (CITT), definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of leather and nonleather boots and shoes (excluding sandals, slippers, sports footwear, and canvas, plas- tic, and rubber waterproof footwear) from the Peo- ple's Republic of China and Taiwan Province of China; definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of leather boots and shoes from Brazil, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia; and definitive countervailing duties were imposed on imports of leather boots and shoes from Brazil. June 25. The RCCE determined that imports of dry extruded dog food from the United States did not involve dumping. July 6. Following a finding of injury by the CITT, definitive antidumping and countervailing duties were imposed on imports of refill paper from Brazil. October 17. The CITT determined that dumped imports of articulated four-wheel-drive tractors from Germany had not caused injury to domestic producers. November 13. The CITT determined that dumped imports of stainless steel bars from India had not caused injury to domestic producers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde es- cudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 65.78 and C.V. Esc 66.37, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Department of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRE), which is a department of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central bank). All im- ports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licens- ing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 50,000. Foreign exchange transactions, including the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with An- gola and Sao Tome and Principe. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit ac- counts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale or surrender of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency; such accounts must be replenished ex- clusively with foreign exchange. Foreign enter- prises may maintain accounts in foreign currency. Special Accounts (Emigrants) Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign ex- change deposit accounts; (2) savings-credit deposit accounts; and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts can be credited only with convertible foreign currencies. Holders of savings- credit deposit accounts can benefit from loans on special terms for financing small-scale projects. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 50,000. Li- censes, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Transportation, Trade, and Tourism, require the visa of the central bank and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the central bank. Licenses are in general granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equipment. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authori- zation. Any person traveling abroad may take out foreign currency equivalent to C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals traveling abroad as tourists are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance and make a deposit equivalent to a one-way ticket to the country of destination; this deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a maximum of C.V. Esc 20,000 on leaving the country; students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, en- titled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the country of destination. Persons traveling abroad on business may take an amount of foreign currency that varies according to the country of destination and the duration of each business trip. Persons traveling abroad for medical treatment may take out an amount of foreign currency that varies 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 CAPE VERDE according to medical needs. Applications for these allowances must be accompanied by medical cer- tification before the trip, and medical bills must be presented on return to Cape Verde. Transfers by foreign technical assistance person- nel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the central bank. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but may re-export only up to the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing and to ap- proval by the central bank, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 10,000. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of domestic currency is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the central bank, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The export of resident-owned capital is not normally permitted. Capital in certain foreign investments is allowed to be repatriated in equal installments within a period of less than two years. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold in either coins or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies con- cerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Republic do not apply to (1) France (and its Over- seas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) All other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Autonomous Amortization Fund (CAADE) in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad, and the Office of Foreign Financial Rela- tions in the same ministry supervises lending abroad, issuing, advertising, or offering for sale for- eign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Opera- tions Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Ac- counts in Francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to For- eign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. Imports from all other countries are not subject to licensing requirements or quotas. Imports of fire- arms are prohibited irrespective of origin. Import declarations are required for all imports, and all import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the aThe CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 2The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) Control over the external position of the banks, (2) The granting of excep- tional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) Control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. There are no limits on foreign exchange alloca- tions for tourist and business travel, and residents may obtain foreign bank notes and traveler's checks in foreign currencies or make payments through commercial banks without restriction. Residents traveling as tourists may take with them a maximum of CFAF 50,000 in domestic bank notes a year a person. For business travel, the maximum limit on domestic bank notes that can be exported is CFAF 10,000 a person a day. Foreigners working in the Central African Re- public are permitted to transfer their entire net sal- ary upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign cur- rency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BE AC bank notes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports require a declaration. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatri- ated within 1 month of the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authoriza- tion is obtained. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval and are re- stricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Gov- ernment or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Direc- tor of the Budget. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the is- suing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign se- curities in the Central African Republic, the mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct in- vestments in the Central African Republic4 must be Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. 4Including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 91 declared to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be de- clared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had pre- viously been approved as constituting a direct in- vestment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Re- public, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Re- public and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Re- public, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. Making loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of December 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and min- ing enterprises (both foreign and domestic) estab- lished in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the import of specified equipment; in addi- tion, certain enterprises receive exemption from di- rect taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of pref- erential treatment (A, B, and C), in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expan- sion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission, which considers the ap- plication. If a positive decision is given by the Com- mission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- i Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds, ~u ^ . 1QQA CHAD (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain other foreign curren- cies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers abroad by the banks for their own account, except those made for the account of the Treasury, for students' bursaries, and to the mem- ber countries of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Com- oros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. However, they must be declared and be made only through authorized banks and with bank checks. Payments to all other countries are subject to exchange control. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior ap- proval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also is- sues import and export authorizations for gold. Ex- change control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Con- trol Subdirectorate, which issues instructions to the irThe CFA franc in circulation in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. authorized intermediaries. All exchange transac- tions relating to countries outside the Operations Account Area must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited freely to Foreign Ac- counts in Francs maintained by the foreign corre- spondent of an authorized bank, provided that the notes are repatriated to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Im- ports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from Euro- pean Community (EC) countries (the original mem- ber states), other than France, may be made freely. All imports from non-EC countries outside the Op- erations Account Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange re- quired to implement it are determined by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry on the basis of pro- posals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EC countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries judged to have ab- normal competitive advantages. In addition, the 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 CHAD program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EC countries, countries in the Operations Account Area, as well as other countries. Specified goods from certain neighboring countries not belonging to the Opera- tions Account Area, up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer, may be imported through compensation transactions. The issuance of import licenses for sugar and a specified brand of cigarettes has been suspended until fur- ther notice. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary ex- change, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment, the approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of bona fide income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. Insurance on all imports shipped to Chad of values exceeding CFA 500,000 on f.o.b. terms must be arranged with local insurance companies by the importer. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. This allocation is increased by the equiv- alent of CFAF 50,000 for each child under 10 years of age. For pilgrimages to Mecca, an additional alloca- tion of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. Business travelers to foreign countries re- ceive a daily allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a maximum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirec- torate may approve additional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes; the limit for chil- dren under 10 is CFAF 5,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, in addition to amounts they remitted from foreign bank accounts. If they made no declaration, they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addition to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All ex- ports to non-EC countries outside the Operations Account Area require licenses. Specified exports to certain neighboring countries, including Nigeria and Sudan, may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of COTONTCHAD. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surren- dered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and be surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if re- ceived in foreign currency, be surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) and other foreign means of pay- ment. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and coins in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 must exchange them for CFA francs within eight days of their return. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign se- curities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 95 claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable or sus- pended insofar as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduc- tion of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance, irrespective of the method of financing; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a mixed-economy en- terprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct in- vestments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian in- vestments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 30 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government, and (2) shares similar to se- curities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Chad. Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Chad. prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, with an interest rate no higher than 7 percent and a maturity of two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must maintain a specified mini- mum proportion of their assets in Chad. Under the Investment Code published on De- cember 9, 1987, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code provides for four categories of enterprises that would receive various fo rms of preferen t ial treat- ment, including certain tax and other privileges. Requests for preferen t ial trea tment must be sub- mitted to the Minister of Finance who, a f ter exam- ining the documents, transmits them to the In- vestment Commission. With the recommendation of this Commission, the pro ject is submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 CHAD and CFAF 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold un- worked gold unless specifically authorized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization from the Ministry of Fi- nance and from the Directorate of Energy, Mines, and Geology, as well as a visa from the External Finance Department. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and ex- ports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw dia- monds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of the Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports, which is an approved private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). The official exchange rate of the Chilean peso is pegged to the U.S. dollar, at a rate adjusted at daily intervals according to a schedule established on the basis of the domestic rate of inflation during the previous month, less the estimated world rate of inflation. On December 31, 1990, the official ex- change rate was Ch$353.84 per US$1. The official foreign exchange market (formal exchange market) consists of commercial banks, exchange houses, and other entities that are authorized by the Central Bank. Proceeds from exports of goods and services, payments for imports of goods and services, debt- service payments, remittances of dividends and profits, and authorized capital transactions, includ- ing loan receipts, must be transacted through this market. In addition, there is an informal exchange market through which all transactions not required to be channeled through the official foreign ex- change market take place. In both markets, private parties are free to negotiate exchange rates. The Central Bank conducts foreign exchange transactions vis-a-vis the official exchange market entities within margins of 5 percent above and be- low the official exchange rate. Commercial banks are permitted to provide a for- ward market for foreign exchange with a maturity of up to 180 days. On maturity, contracts are settled in pesos on the basis of the difference between the market rate and the contract rate. Contract rates are determined freely without intervention by the Cen- tral Bank. The regulations impose limits on banks' gross forward purchases and on their net exposure, both overall and in individual currencies. The Cen- tral Bank provides forward cover against exchange risk in the form of currency swaps. The maturity periods of forward transactions range from 5 days to 720 days. Commissions on exchange transactions are subject to an 18 percent value-added tax. The exchange rates of the Chilean peso with other cur- rencies are determined on the basis of the peso exchange rate with respect to the U.S. dollar and of the U.S. dollar exchange rate with respect to other currencies quoted in foreign markets. The Central Bank has provided an exchange sub- sidy on the following service payments on some debts contracted prior to August 6, 1982 (the origi- nal amount of the debt was about US$8 billion): (1) debtors to Chilean banks or financial companies whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) debtors with direct obligations abroad whose obligations were registered with the Central Bank. The subsidy is paid by means of notes in- dexed to inflation with a minimum maturity of six years, and carrying a 3 percent rate of interest. On December 31,1990, the difference between the offi- cial rate and the subsidized rate was Ch$72.8 per US$1. As of this date, only those debtors whose obligations were equal to or less than US$50,000 on June 30,1985 had access to this subsidized rate. The stock of debt eligible in principle for the preferential exchange rate is estimated at less than US$70 mil- lion. However, the actual amount for which this exchange rate will apply is expected to be negligible due, inter alia, to the bankruptcy of many of the affected debtors, and the subsidy operations are expected to stop soon. Administration of Control The Council of the Central Bank is responsible for carrying out exchange control policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for the supervi- sion of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry; this supervision has to be exercised in accor- dance with general rules enacted by the Central Bank. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Chile notified the Fund, on December 6,1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colom- bia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Net balances under the clearing system are settled in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of controls, with the excep- tion of used motor vehicles. Most imports require a document (known as Informe de Importation) issued 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 CHILE by the Central Bank, which must be obtained and processed through the intermediary local commer- cial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions, through the official foreign exchange market, is not permitted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. Importers who meet the documentary require- ments are granted access to the official foreign ex- change market regardless of the terms of the obliga- tion involved, provided that the supplier's interest continues to accrue until the date on which the foreign currency is sold. Tariffs are bound under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) at 35 percent. At pres- ent, imports are subject to a uniform tariff rate of 15 percent. A few items are exempted from the general tariff regime. Exemptions include tariffs ne- gotiated with LAI A countries. Imports of wheat, edible oil, and sugar are subject to a special regime involving price margins within which the after-duty price has to remain. In addition, tariff duties or surcharges are applied, on a temporary basis, to imports of certain products that are subsidized in the country of origin or dumped in Chile. Payments for Invisibles Specified allowances exist for certain transactions; central bank authorization is required for others. The authorization is provided upon presentation of appropriate documentation. The established limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is the equivalent of US$1,000 a trip for travel to Latin American and Caribbean countries and US$3,000 a trip to other countries. For travel by land to neigh- boring destinations, 20 percent of the allowance is provided in the form of foreign exchange, and the rest, in money orders. Higher amounts for travel other than tourism may be authorized by the Cen- tral Bank, upon presentation of adequate justifica- tion. Travelers may also obtain additional foreign currency in the informal exchange market. Residents may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange up to US$200 a month for study abroad, subscriptions to magazines, book pur- chases, registration in seminars, social security pay- ments, medical treatment payments, and remit- tances of rents earned by real estate owners living abroad. Purchases over US$200 a month require prior approval from the Central Bank. All of these transactions are subject to presentation of appropri- ate documents. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers must be channeled through the informal exchange market. Remittances of profits and divi- dends earned from foreign direct investments re- quire prior approval from the Central Bank. There are no special provisions for exports of do- mestic bank notes. Insurance activities within the country are lim- ited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All products may be freely exported. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$1,000 must be surrendered through commercial banks, which are required to advise the Central Bank. Commercial banks are authorized to pur- chase all foreign exchange proceeds spot from ex- porters. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 5 per- cent of export proceeds in a special Foreign Exchange Account, which may be drawn upon to cover travel expenses and consultants' fees, bank costs and/or commissions, and other expenses in- volved in export schemes, but the cumulative de- posits in any such account during a 12-month period may not exceed US$500,000. Receipts from exports of CODELCO (the state copper mines) must be deposited in a special foreign currency account at the Central Bank. Export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 120 days of the date of shipment and surrendered within 10 days. However, export proceeds may be surrendered within 210 days of the date of shipment if they are held as foreign exchange deposits with resident banks. Extension of repatriation periods may be granted for certain products. As a means of expediting the operation of the drawback system in respect of small export values, exporters of eligible products (approximately 6 per- cent of the country's annual exports) have an option of taking a tax reimbursement in lieu of benefits under the existing import duty drawback scheme; alternatively, such exporters may avail themselves of the provisions of Decree No. 409, under which they may draw back their payments of duties on imported inputs. Eligible products were defined initially as those whose average annual export values in 1983 and 1984 were equal to or less than US$2.5 million. The list of eligible products is re- viewed annually in the light of their export value during the previous year. Annual export values are also subject to adjustment. As of July 16, 1990, this tax refund was equal to 10 percent of the net export value of sales for those exporters of products whose annual export value was less than or equal to US$10 million and 5 percent for those exporters of products whose annual export value was between US$10 mil- lion and US$15 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 99 Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invis- ibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. The same rule applies to royalties and copyright fees, commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. There are no similar rules governing the pro- ceeds from family remittances, and the surplus for- eign exchange from travel allocations. There are no special provisions for imports of domestic bank notes. Capital Capital inflows are generally free, but most out- flows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior registration or approval from the Cen- tral Bank; the exceptions to this regulation are lines of credit of up to one-year maturity with foreign correspondents, and short-term loans for domestic re-lending. Short-term loans are subject to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. However, the Central Bank must still be notified of foreign borrowings even if they do not require cen- tral bank approval. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of the following arrangements, depend- ing on the purpose and type of the investment. (1) Title I, Chapter XIV of the Compendium of Rules on International Exchange stipulates, inter alia, that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign borrowing (creditos externos) must be sold through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporate, national or foreign) has registered the transaction with the Central Bank. There is no minimum term on the maturity of for- eign borrowing. Repatriation normally is allowed only in accordance with the amortization schedule established at the time of registration. Accelerated payments or extensions of payment are subject to special authorization. Since June 1990, under Chap- ter XXVI of Title I, individuals and legal entities, domiciled and resident abroad, and meeting certain conditions, have been permitted to remit abroad proceeds from the sale of stocks of registered cor- porations domiciled in Chile that were purchased with funds abroad through the official exchange market. The remittance of dividends and profits accruing from such stocks is also allowed through the official exchange market. (2) Chapter XIV of Title I of the Compendium of Rules authorizes the Central Bank to make exemp- tions to the general rules enacted by it concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7,1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Statute, establishes a regime for long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a contract containing undertakings that the investment program will normally not exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 million may be ap- proved by the Executive Secretary of the Commit- tee, with a few exceptions. There are no general limitations on profit remittances, but specific agree- ments in this regard may be included in the above- mentioned investment contract. Capital may be re- patriated after three years unless specified other- wise in the investment contract. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed annual corporate income tax at the rate of 49.5 percent over a period of ten years, or may subject themselves to a tax system similar to that which is applied to domestic corpora- tions. (According to this system, foreign investors are subject to an effective tax rate of 32.5 percent.) Any foreign credits involved must be on terms au- thorized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree- Law No. 600 and is not subject to that law continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Contract awards in the oil sector are decided by the Government under Presidential De- cree; rights and responsibilities under such a Decree may be vested in the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo (ENAP) by the Ministry of Mines. (4) Chapters XVIII and XIX of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in May 1985 and amended several times since, regulate the purchase of selected Chilean foreign debt instruments abroad at a discount as well as their repatriation. Eligible instruments are defined as external debt payable in foreign currency outside Chile with a maturity of more than one year, the debtor of which may be either the Treasury, the Central Bank, a public sector entity, the Develop- ment Corporation (CORFO), a financial institution, or a private sector resident having a guarantee from a financial institution. Chapter XIX governs the use of Chilean debt instruments by foreign residents for direct investment in Chile with remittance rights. Upon approval from the Central Bank, the foreign currency obligation is exchanged into a domestic currency obligation, the proceeds of which must be used for direct investment purposes, with the inter- mediation of a financial institution; special regula- tions apply to repatriation of such capital as well as to dividend payments. Chapter XVIII specifies the regulations for the conversion into peso assets (without remittance rights) by residents and non- residents of debt purchased at a discount abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 CHILE with foreign exchange not obtained in the official market and of private sector external debt not guar- anteed by the Government. Transactions under Chapter XVIII are also channeled through financial institutions, subject to an overall quota assigned on the basis of an auction system. (5) Chapter XXVII of Title I of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in August 1990, provides that foreign capital investment funds may have access to the official exchange market for repatriation abroad of im- ported capital, profits earned on such capital, and payments of expenses involved in foreign invest- ment activities under certain conditions. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized houses, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals may be freely un- dertaken. Imports and exports of gold are unre- stricted, subject to compliance with the normal for- malities for import and export transactions, including registration with the Central Bank. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement April 19. New regulations liberalizing foreign ex- change market operations and allowing any person to conduct freely foreign exchange transactions were introduced. Previously, all foreign exchange transactions were prohibited unless specifically au- thorized by the Central Bank. Under the new reg- ulations, all transactions were permitted unless spe- cifically restricted by the Central Bank, and the parallel market thus became an informal but legal foreign exchange market. Proceeds from exports of goods and services, payments for imports of goods and services, debt-service payments, remittances of dividends and profits, and authorized capital trans- actions, including loan receipts, would be trans- acted through the official exchange market. All other transactions not required to be effected through the official exchange market would take place in the informal exchange market in which the exchange rate is freely determined. June 25. A new chapter (Chapter XXVI) was added to Title I of the Compendium of Rules on International Exchange. It provided that individ- uals and legal entities, domiciled and resident abroad, and meeting specific conditions, may have access to the official exchange market to remit abroad proceeds from the sale of stocks of regis- tered corporations domiciled in Chile that were pur- chased with funds from abroad. The remittance of dividends and profits accruing from such stocks was also permitted through the official exchange market. Imports and Import Payments January 5. The minimum import financing re- quirement (120 days) was abolished (Resolution 5-11-900105). Payments for Invisibles October 18. The requirement that foreign ex- change for travel allowances must be obtained no earlier than 20 days before the date of departure was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds July 9. The repatriation period for proceeds from exports was extended to 120 days from 90 days (Resolution 64-11-901018). Capital August 30. A new chapter (Chapter XXVII) was added to Title I of the Chilean Compendium of Rules on International Exchange. It specified the procedures under which foreign capital investment funds may have access to the official exchange mar- ket for repatriation abroad of imported capital, profits earned on such capital, and payments of expenses involved in foreign investment activities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi, and its unit is the Yuan. Since Jan- uary 1, 1986, China has followed an exchange ar- rangement whereby the exchange rate for the ren- minbi is based on developments in the balance of payments and in costs and exchange rates of China's major competitors. From July 5, 1986 until December 15, 1989, the exchange rate for the ren- minbi remained unchanged at Y 3.72 per US$1. On December 15, 1989, it was announced that the ren- minbi would be depreciated by 21.2 percent, effec- tive December 16, to Y 4.72 per US$1. On Novem- ber 17, 1990, the renminbi was depreciated by a further 9.6 percent. The exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and 20 other currencies are published on a daily basis by the State Administration of Ex- change Control;1 on December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Y 5.22 and Y 5.24, respectively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are important in China's international transac- tions are changed whenever the calculated rate di- verges from the previously published rate by be- tween 0.5 percent and 1 percent. Since Novem- ber 1986, Chinese enterprises in the four economic zones of Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, and Zhuhai, and foreign investment corporations have been per- mitted to transact rights to foreign exchange earn- ings in foreign exchange swap centers at rates mu- tually agreed upon between buyers and sellers under the supervision of the State Administration of Exchange Control (SAEC). In early 1988, all domes- tic entities that were allowed to retain foreign ex- change earnings were granted permission to trade in the swap centers, and at present 100 such centers have been established. Initially, a relatively small volume of transactions took place in these markets, but the volume has increased substantially since access to the centers was expanded. The renminbi depreciated in these markets from an average of Y 5.25 per US$1 in the first quarter of 1987 to Y 6.7 per US$1 in the first half of 1989, but subsequently 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian rials, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Macao patacas, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. appreciated to Y 5.9 per US$1 in the latter part of 1989 and Y 5.7 per US$1 by December 1990. The SAEC must approve the use of foreign ex- change purchased in the swap centers, and in Feb- ruary 1989, regulations were issued specifying the priority uses of foreign exchange. Imports of inputs for the agricultural sector, textiles, and tech- nologically advanced and light industries were given priority, while purchases of foreign exchange for imports of a wide range of consumer goods, including clothing and electronic products, were prohibited. Forward exchange rates are published for 15 cur- rencies.2 China does not apply a system of forward premiums and discounts but instead uses the spot rate plus a forward charge. Forward transactions are permitted only in connection with an underlying trade transaction. When banks sell renminbi for- ward, a charge is levied; when they buy, no charge is levied except on the deutsche mark, Netherlands guilder, Japanese yen, and Swiss franc. Rates are given for one to six months; transactions can be renewed for a further six months, but not for longer than one year. Forward charges reflect interest rates and trends in international markets in the curren- cies concerned. Administration of Control The People's Bank of China (PBC) exercises cen- tral bank functions and control over foreign ex- change; and the SAEC, as a government institution under the leadership of the PBC, is responsible for implementing exchange regulations and for control- ling all foreign exchange transactions in accordance with state policy. There are a number of SAEC sub- bureaus in the provinces, main municipalities, au- tonomous regions, and special economic zones. The Bank of China (BOC) is China's specialized foreign exchange bank. Other banks and financial institu- tions, including affiliates of nonresident banks, may handle designated transactions with the approval of the SAEC. Currently, more than one hundred in- stitutions are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. The China International Trust and In- vestment Corporation (CITIC) is authorized to con- duct transactions connected with investments of 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA foreign capital in China. Individuals and financial institutions may hold foreign exchange but gener- ally may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage opera- tions. Special exchange control measures are ap- plied to special economic zones, the 14 designated coastal cities, and border regions. Foreign exchange transactions at the more appre- ciated administered exchange rate are generally conducted in accordance with a foreign exchange plan. The PBC has responsibility for foreign ex- change reserves and external borrowing. Within guidelines recommended to the State Council by the PBC on balance of payments management and total external borrowing, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT) prepares estimates for those parts of the foreign exchange plan dealing with foreign trade, foreign loans, and China's external assistance program; the Ministry of Finance prepares the foreign exchange budgets of other government departments. The SAEC draws up the section of the plan covering local and provin- cial nontrade transactions, receipts from overseas Chinese, and individual receipts. The State Plan- ning Commission (SPC) coordinates and balances the overall foreign exchange plan and submits it to the State Council for approval. Following approval, the plan is sent back to the various localities and ministries for implementation. The SAEC is respon- sible for supervising the implementation of the for- eign exchange plan. The foreign exchange plan includes transactions with countries with which China maintains bilat- eral payments agreements.3 The annual plan is di- vided into quarterly plans, and at the end of each quarter, the SAEC and SPC review the implementa- tion of the plan and determine whether corrections are necessary. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by com- modity. Unexpected events, such as changes in for- eign trade policies, might necessitate a revision of the plan. Prescription of Currency Under bilateral payments agreements in place at the end of 1990, trade transactions with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. were expressed in Swiss francs, and 3At the end of 1990, China maintained operative bilateral payments agreements with the following Fund members: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, Poland, and Romania. It also maintained operative bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Cuba, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. those with Albania and Cuba, in U.S. dollars at the official exchange rate. In normal circumstances, im- balances emerging toward the end of each year are covered by increased deliveries of goods. Noncom- mercial transactions are settled on a current basis in convertible currencies, except for part of such trans- actions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Romania and all transactions with Cuba, which pass through the clearing account. Payments to and from countries with which China has bilat- eral payments agreements are made in the curren- cies of these countries and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. In other cases, where there are no specific regulations pre- scribing the currencies to be used in transactions, they are determined by terms agreed under the respective contracts. Except for the arrangement with the Islamic Re- public of Iran, the agreements are designed to en- sure balanced trade and include, for each good itemized, quantitative commodity lists or foreign exchange quota lists for those commodities that cannot be expressed in quantitative terms; these lists are binding on both parties. The agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran provides such binding itemized lists only for the principal goods traded by the parties and also includes nonbinding lists of secondary goods. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents4 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the BOC and other authorized banks and financial institutions. Joint ventures may also open foreign exchange accounts and use them to make payments abroad. Foreign banks may hold convertible renminbi accounts in connection with commercial or noncommercial transactions. Renminbi may be purchased for such an account only on presentation of documentary evidence that the money will be used in the desig- nated transaction. The BOC and other authorized banks and financial institutions may check any use made of renminbi in such accounts. Foreign banks in the special economic zones may lend in foreign exchange and accept foreign currency deposits from joint-venture companies. Individuals may open resident foreign currency accounts at the BOC and may withdraw funds from such accounts in the form of foreign currency. 4Nonresidents include overseas Chinese and residents of for- eign countries and of the Hong Kong and Macao regions. Foreign embassies are also included. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 103 Imports and Exports All trade, both direct and indirect, with South Africa is prohibited. The primary responsibility for formulating for- eign trade policies and ensuring the implementa- tion of regulations and policy measures rests with MOFERT, which also issues the licenses required for restricted imports and a large number of exports;5 following the reform in the exchange and trade sys- tem effected in early 1985, MOFERT no longer en- gages in direct foreign trade transactions and is no longer involved in the daily enterprise management of trading corporations. Foreign trade is conducted by foreign trade corporations (FTCs) and other en- tities licensed by MOFERT to conduct foreign trade. In early 1988, control over FTCs was decentralized when local branches of most of these corporations were made independent entities accountable to lo- cal government authorities and responsible for their own profits and losses under the contract responsi- bility system. Application of the agency system, under which companies conduct foreign trade as agents on a commission basis, was also expanded; a larger number of domestic enterprises were given the authority to export their products directly or to import needed materials directly. A limited number of essential import commodities continue to be handled by 1 of the 13 national foreign trade corporations. All enterprises, other than registered foreign trade corporations, need approval from the local foreign trade bureau in accordance with the authori- zation of MOFERT and a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce to engage in foreign trade. Proceeds of certain exports (joint-venture companies and 100 percent foreign-owned com- panies) may be retained in a foreign exchange ac- count with the BOC or an authorized bank. All other foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatriated and surrendered to the BOC, unless specific exception is granted by the SAEC, and may not be used directly to offset import payments. Part of the proceeds of exports (including foreign exchange earned in compensation trade) may be held as foreign exchange retention quotas6 in the SAEC or its sub-bureaus by localities and enter- prises in accordance with state regulations. The per- centage of export earnings that can be retained 5MoFERT itself issues licenses for some restricted imports into Beijing; for the rest, it delegates its authority to its special com- mission offices at major ports and to its regional counterparts — commissions on foreign economic relations and trade (COFERT). 6A retention quota constitutes a right to purchase foreign exchange in the fu ture for renminbi. varies with the enterprise. Typically, domestic en- terprises are allowed to retain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings up to a target amount of such earnings established for each enterprise in ne- gotiations with the Central Government; the re- mainder is remitted to the Central Government. In turn, a portion of the foreign exchange retained by the enterprises has to be shared with local govern- ments. This portion is usually 12Vz percent but can vary depending on agreements between the local authorities and individual enterprises. Enterprises are generally allowed to retain a major share of foreign exchange earnings in excess of targeted amounts. Foreign direct investment enterprises re- tain all of their foreign exchange earnings. The number of trading companies and other en- terprises engaged in foreign trade expanded rapidly in 1988. Many of the new firms lacked the necessary expertise to engage in foreign trade, and in Feb- ruary 1989, the State Council established guidelines for the rationalization of foreign trade companies. Trade in certain products was to be limited to government-designated trade corporations; provin- cial and local government regulation of local FTCs was to be improved; and companies with poor oper- ating results or engaged in disorderly operations were to be closed or merged with other trading companies. As a result of the rationalization, the number of FTCs was reduced from 5,000 to 4,000. In early 1988, retention quotas for domestic enter- prises in several industrial sectors (light industry, arts and crafts, clothing, and machinery) and in some regions (Hainan Island and the special eco- nomic zones) were raised. Retention quotas for these enterprises vary with the degree of processing of the goods exported up to 100 percent. Retention quotas can be traded in the foreign exchange swap centers or used for imports. The BOC provides for- eign exchange for imports on the basis of import licenses and approval by the SAEC. Residents may not pay for imports with local currency. Imports consist of those included in the annual import plan and those outside the plan. The foreign trade plan is drawn up by MOFERT in conjunction with the SPC. The former sends directives on the preparation of the plan to all foreign trade corpora- tions and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, municipalities, and autonomous re- gions, which, in turn, meet with other interested entities and prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for export. The plans prepared at the local level are coordinated and balanced by MOFERT and the SPC at national foreign trade plan- ning conferences. The State Council grants final approval to the foreign trade plan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Goods that can be produced domestically or for which adequate domestic substitutes are available are not included in the import plan. Priority is given in the import plan to goods that cannot be produced domestically in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the State, especially for key projects. In the case of some goods that are not produced in adequate quantities but for which a strong demand exists in the foreign market, part of the production may be allocated to export. Imports into China are also classified into two other categories—restricted imports and unre- stricted imports.7 A number of restricted imports overlap with those included in the annual import plan.8 Import licensing serves to limit, and in some cases, prohibit imports of restricted goods that are included in the annual plan. Imports of seven as- sembly lines on the restricted list (for television sets, household refrigerators, household washing ma- chines, radio-cassette recorders, room air condi- tioners, motorcycles, and light motor vehicles) are effectively banned through the licensing system; imports of these lines require approval by the State Economic Commission, which currently does not grant approval. Apart from imports that are restricted through the licensing system, a few types of imports, such as all secondhand garments, are explicitly banned. Im- ports of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited, as are exports of valuable cultural relics and rare books, rare animals, seeds and plants, and precious metals, and artifacts made from these metals. In addition, the import and ex- port of weapons, ammunition and explosives, radio receivers and transmitters, Chinese currency, man- uscripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese politi- cal, economic, cultural, and moral interests are pro- hibited. All imports and exports require prior in- spection before release by customs at the port of entry or exit. Exports of specified machine tools require a license from the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities, as a means of quality control. The customs regulations in force are the Provi- sional Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Customs Import and Export Tariff of the People's Republic of China. The tariff rates for imports fall into two categories: minimum and gen- eral. The minimum tariff rates apply to imports 7 At the end of 1990, there were 53 goods on the restricted list, including 34 kinds of assembly lines counted as one item. 8In principle, the restricted list can change on a monthly basis, and the coverage of the import plan also changes. Therefore, the degree of overlap changes over time. originating in the countries with which China has concluded trade treaties or agreements with re- ciprocal favorable tariff clauses therein;9 the general tariff rates apply to imports originating in the coun- tries with which China has not concluded trade treaties or agreements with reciprocal favorable tar- iff clauses. The duties are calculated on the basis of the c . i .f. value of imported goods. Excluding goods that are exempt from duties, goods in the general tariff rate category are subject to 17 rates ranging from 8 percent to 180 percent, and goods in the minimum tariff rate category are subject to 17 rates ranging from 3 percent to 150 percent. In addition to the import duties mentioned above, a regulatory tax on imports is applied to 24 selected products; the regulatory tax rates range from 20 percent to 80 percent. Imports into Tibet through border trade with the neighboring countries are subject to a separate sys- tem of customs duties established by the People's Government of the Tibet Autonomous Region. The tar iff, however, applies only to goods imported di- rectly for use in Tibet. It does not apply to imports of other provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions through Tibet, or to imports through Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the luggage carried by travelers; such imports are subject to the regular Chinese tariff. In addition to customs duties, a consolidated in- dustrial and commercial tax (a turnover tax also applies to other commodities) is levied on imports in accordance with the list contained in the Draft Regulations of the Consolidated Industrial and Commercial Tax of the People's Republic of China. Raw materials imported for fu r ther processing are exempted from both customs duties and commer- cial taxes, provided that the products are exported within a specified period. Most imports and exports by joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. 9These countries are as follows (classified by geographical areas): (1) Africa: Benin, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Re- public, Chad, Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. (2) Western Hemisphere: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and United States. (3) Asia: Bangladesh, Burma, Cyprus, Iraq, Jordan, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Sin- gapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, Viet Nam, and Yemen. (4) Europe: Albania, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Nether- lands, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, U.S.S.R., United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. (5) Oceania: Australia and New Zealand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 105 Special economic zones have been set up in Shan- tou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, and Zhuhai. Economic and technological development areas have been es- tablished in 14 designated coastal cities. Foreigners, overseas Chinese, and Chinese from the Hong Kong and Macao regions are permitted to invest in and open factories in these zones and areas. Raw mate- rials, equipment, and machinery or parts and com- ponents thereof, means of transportation, and other means of production imported by and intended to be used in the production of the enterprises in the zones are exempt from import duties and the con- solidated industrial and commercial tax. A number of restrictions are imposed on exports. Certain products (primarily raw materials and food products) are subject to export licensing. The num- ber of items subject to export-licensing require- ments was reduced from 221 to 159 in July 1988, but subsequently was raised to 189 in May 1990. Exports of some products are prohibited. In December 1988, the number of items whose exportation is banned was raised from 4 to 10. In addition, exports of 58 products are subject to duties. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Enterprises must sell their foreign exchange earn- ings from invisible transactions to the BOC and other authorized banks, except for enterprises with foreign investment and some foreign trade sectors designated as experimental areas for trade reforms. Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or from the Hong Kong and Macao regions to Chinese residents may be retained and used to open an account in the BOC or an authorized bank. Similarly, foreign ex- change owned by immigrants or returning Chinese before becoming residents may be retained. Such retained foreign exchange may be sold to or remit- ted through the BOC, or taken out of China against certification by the BOC. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents when working abroad, or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions, or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums must be repatriated and may not be deposited abroad; but individuals may retain such earnings according to prevailing regulations. The surrendered portion of foreign exchange remit- tances is accorded the privileged treatment given to remittances by overseas Chinese. Foreign staff members and employees of foreign joint ventures, as well as those from the Hong Kong and Macao regions,10 may remit their salaries and 10Including those employed by enterprises with overseas and foreign Chinese capital. other income earned in China, af ter payment of taxes and deduction of their living expenses in China and approval by the relevant local au- thorities. Profits of joint ventures may be remitted af ter taxation, in accordance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances are subject to the ap- proval of the local branch of the SAEC and should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent, but only if the profits have been generated in areas other than the special economic zones and the economic and technologi- cal development areas in the 14 selected coastal cities. If a Chinese resident wishes to spend money on travel abroad, receive his pension abroad, or remit money abroad, he must apply to the local SAEC bureau for approval. Such factors as the individual's normal income and expenditure are examined to determine if approval is to be granted for remit- tances. In cases of serious illness, death, or injury affecting a Chinese resident's parents, spouse, or children outside China, he may apply for foreign exchange up to a specified limit on presentation of documentary verification. If permission is granted to travel abroad, a Chinese resident is normally allowed to take a reasonable amount of foreign ex- change to cover expenses for transport and subsis- tence; any surplus must be repatriated and surren- dered to the BOC. There is no tax on travel. A Chinese resident who retires and emigrates is nor- mally permitted to receive his pension abroad, but the amount of proceeds from the sale of assets in China that may be remitted is limited. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by non- residents may be converted into either renminbi or foreign exchange certificates (FECs) denominated in renminbi. Foreign exchange certificates can be used by nonresidents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serving nonresidents, for purchasing airline tickets and train or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao, and for international telecommunications and parcel post charges. Special regulations apply in Guangdong province. Persons entering China must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on presentation of the import declaration form is- sued by customs. The importation and exportation of Chinese bank notes are prohibited. Foreign ex- change certificates may be imported, but their ex- port is subject to the provision of documentation showing that they have been acquired legitimately. Chinese residents must show their authorization to export foreign currency at the border. Foreign or- ganizations resident in China are not allowed to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA reconvert FECs into foreign currency. Nonresidents and resident foreigners in China are permitted to reconvert only up to 50 percent of original pur- chases of FECs when they leave China upon presen- tation of documented FEC purchases. Income from royalties, dividends, interest, and rentals earned by foreign businesses without estab- lishments in China is subject to a 20 percent with- holding tax; a preferential rate of 10 percent is ap- plied for foreign and overseas Chinese partners in joint ventures set up in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas in the old urban areas of the 14 coastal cities. Joint ventures are required to be insured with Chinese insurance companies. Capital Foreign borrowing is classified either as "plan" or "nonplan" borrowing.11 Plan borrowing includes borrowing by the Central Government (through the PBC, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agri- culture, Animal Husbandry and Forestry, and MOFERT and enterprises under the control of MOFERT) from international organizations and bilat- eral sources; borrowing by CITIC and other invest- ment and trust companies (ITICS) (mostly in the form of bond issues and bond borrowing abroad) to finance plan projects; borrowing by the BOC from foreign commercial banks to finance plan projects; and borrowing by provincial governments (either directly or through the BOC) for large projects in- cluded in provincial governments' annual plans. Nonplan borrowing includes borrowing by the BOC for purposes other than projects included in the annual plan (this includes interbank loans and for- eign exchange deposits held in BOC headquarters and abroad); foreign exchange deposit taking by other financial institutions; short-term trade credits; borrowing by joint-venture companies and 100 per- cent foreign-owned companies; all borrowing at the provincial level to finance small projects; lease fi- nancing; and borrowing from offshore Chinese en- terprises (mainly in Hong Kong). The total amount of external borrowing for a spec- ified future period and its split between conces- sional and nonconcessional sources is approved by 11 The SAEC is the sole agency for monitoring and controlling China's external borrowing. It permits the BOC and other finan- cial and nonfinancial institutions responsible for undertaking commercial borrowing to borrow up to specified limits without prior approval. All bond issues, however, are subject to prior approval by the SAEC. In August 1987, comprehensive regula- tions were issued requiring all foreign borrowing to be registered with the SAEC. Borrowers who do not comply will not be permit- ted to transfer foreign exchange abroad to meet their debt- service obligations and will be subject to other penalties. the SPC. Within these limits, the SPC coordinates foreign borrowing for projects included in the an- nual and five-year plans. Under this procedure, the project-executing agencies (the Ministry of Finance, MOFERT, foreign trade corporations, and provincial governments) propose projects to the SPC. Pro- posals indicate the total amount of foreign exchange needed, how much of it will be earned and how much will be borrowed from abroad, and the kinds of imports for which loans are intended. The SPC reviews these plans and, in cooperation with the SAEC, the Ministry of Finance, and MOFERT, recom- mends to the State Council the overall number of projects and their associated financing. Loans for vital projects or projects that have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. If the imports are for new construction, the State Economic Commis- sion also reviews the plans. Within these guidelines, loans from international financial institutions and foreign governments re- quire the sanction of the SPC and the approval of the State Council. Loans from international develop- ment agencies are generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or the China Investment Bank (an organization under the direction of the Minis- try); intergovernmental loans are the responsibility of MOFERT, and loans from international financial institutions are the responsibility of the PBC. Gov- ernment departments, local governments, and en- terprises usually borrow through the BOC (or with its guarantee) or through specialized agencies such as ITICS, rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. The SPC sets an annual limit on such borrowing. Foreign borrowing in the form of de- ferred payments requires the approval of MOFERT. Resident organizations may not issue securities for foreign exchange unless approved by the PBC. According to regulations issued in February 1989, all commercial borrowing abroad (including bond issues) for nonplan purposes requires prior PBC approval. Commercial borrowing can be channeled through one of ten domestic entities—the Bank of China, the Communication's Bank of China, the China Investment Bank, the China International Trust and Investment Corporation, and the six re- gional international trust and investment companies—which are allocated borrowing quotas under the annual plan. The short-term external debt of each institution is to be used only for work- ing capital purposes. All foreign direct investment projects are in prin- ciple subject to the approval of MOFERT. However, a number of provincial and local authorities have been granted the authority to approve foreign direct in- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 107 vestment projects up to specified amounts. The pol- icy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up the insufficiency of domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. Joint-venture enterprises and 100 percent foreign-owned companies are required to balance their foreign exchange receipts and payments, and foreign borrowing must be reported to the SAEC.12 Most foreign exchange earned by joint ventures and other enterprises involving nonresident capital must be deposited with the BOC or an authorized bank; outward transfers of capital generally require SAEC approval. Enterprises involved in the exploi- tation of offshore petroleum reserves may also hold foreign exchange abroad or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions. When a joint venture is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval through the for- eign exchange account of the joint venture. Alter- natively, the foreign investor may apply for repay- ment of his paid-in capital. Profits of joint ventures, with the exception of f irms in special economic zones and the 14 coastal cities and those exploiting petroleum, na tural gas, and other specified resources,13 are subject to tax at 33 percent (30 percent basic rate plus a 10 per- cent surcharge on the assessed tax ). As mentioned above, remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent, which is waived for jo int ven- tures in the special economic zones and the eco- nomic and technological development areas of the 14 coastal cities. A joint venture scheduled to op- erate for ten years or more may be exempted f rom income tax in the f irst one or two profit-making years and be allowed reductions of 50 percent for the following three years. Joint ventures in low- profit operations, such as farming and forestry, or located in areas considered to be economically underdeveloped may, upon the approval of the Ministry of Finance, be allowed a fu r th er 15- 30 percent reduction in income tax for ano ther ten years. A participant in a jo int venture that rein- vests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a re fund of 40 per- cent of the tax paid on the reinvested prof i t. Cer- tain jo int ventures established before the passing of tax regulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at d i f fe rent rates. 12To help individual enterprises balance their foreign receipts and payments, enterprises with a surplus of foreign exchange may sell it to enterprises with a deficit in the foreign exchange swap centers. 13The special tax rate for these firms is 15 percent. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other eco- nomic organizations that have establishments in China engaged in independent business opera- tions, cooperative production, or joint business op- erations with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax on their net income. There are five levels of tax rates, ranging from 20 percent for the first Y 250,000 of profits to 40 percent for profits exceeding Y 1 million. In addition, a local income tax of 10 percent of the same taxable income is levied. Income from interest on deposits of foreign banks in China's state banks and on loans from foreign banks to China's state banks with a normal interest rate is subject to a 20 percent withholding tax. Foreign state banks lo- cated in countries where income from interest on the deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempted from income tax are correspondingly ex- empt from this Chinese tax. For interest income or leasing fees (less than the value of equipment) earned under credit agreements by foreign busi- nesses without establishments in China, under trade agreements, and under leasing agreements signed by them with Chinese companies and enter- prises during the period 1983-85, income tax is to be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent (half the normal rate) during the validity of the aforesaid agreements; interest earnings from export credits are entitled to income tax exemption. For fees col- lected by foreign businessmen for the use of special technology provided by them in such fields as agri- culture, animal husbandry, research, energy, com- munications, transport, environmental protection, and the development of important techniques, in- come tax may, with the approval of the tax au- thorities, be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent, or be waived if the technology is advanced and is provided on favorable terms. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits earned thereby must be sold to the BOC, except for a portion that may be retained locally as a working balance. Chinese dip- lomatic and commercial organizations abroad, as well as businesses abroad and in the Hong Kong and Macao regions, are required to draw up annual foreign exchange plans. Gold The PBC buys and sells gold and has central con- trol over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, indus- trial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA silver, the exporter must present an import docu- ment from customs or a PBC export permit. Non- residents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement November 17. The administered rate of the ren- minbi was adjusted to Y 5.22 per US$1 from Y 4.72 per US$1. Imports and Exports January 25. The import duty rates on certain kinds of cattle hide were reduced to 12-17 percent, from 25-35 percent, and the duty rates on certain kinds of raw materials for tire production were reduced to 30-40 percent from 100-130 percent. The 50 percent import regulatory tax on television tubes was eliminated. May 1. The number of products subject to export licensing was increased from 173 to 185. The addi- tional products included canned broad beans and asparagus, walnuts, sorghum, rabbit meat, cotton linters, silicon-maganese alloys, and certain Pharmaceuticals. June 1. The import duty rates on certain chemicals for developing film were raised to 80-100 percent from 25-35 percent. The export tax on certain iron alloys was reduced to 20 percent from 50 percent. September 1. The import duty rates on insecticides and herbicides were raised to 25-35 percent from a range of 9-20 percent. The import duty rates on metal containers for compressed or liquified gas were raised to 50-70 percent from 12-17 percent, and the import duty rates on ultrasonic equipment were raised to 25-35 percent from 12-17 percent. The import duty rates on certain optical lenses were reduced to 12-17 percent from 30-40 percent. November 20. The import duty rates on most edi- ble oils other than linseed oil were raised to 15- 40 percent from 6-30 percent. The import duty rates on linseed oil were reduced to 20-30 percent from 50-70 percent. December 30. The Customs Tariff Commission an- nounced that effective January 10,1991, import tar- iffs on 40 product items comprising about 16.5 per- cent of total imports would be reduced. The tariff on items used in agricultural production, such as urea and herbicide, would be reduced to 5 percent from 6 percent, while the tariff on raw materials used in the chemical industry, such as toluene, alcohol, and nonylphenol, would be reduced to 17.5 percent from 20 percent. The tax rate on terminals used for optical fiber telecommunications or digital telecom- munications, and pulse code modulation equip- ment would be reduced to 12 percent from 20 per- cent. In addition, the tariff rate for entire parts packages or spare parts for terminals and equip- ment would be reduced to 9 percent from 20 per- cent. Tariffs on seven products (100,000 kilowatt air conditioners, fax machines, carrier-current line sys- tems, teleprinters, BP telephones, walkie talkies and components, and radio phones and compo- nents) would be increased to 20 percent from 3 per- cent. Molybdenum would be exempted from the export duty. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles September 7. The National People's Congress adopted the copyright law of the People's Republic of China to protect the copyrights of authors of literary, artistic, and scientific works. The law, which is to come into effect in June 1991, applies to works of Chinese citizens, works by foreigners first published in China, and works by foreigners of countries with which China has bilateral copyright agreements or which adhere to international treaties to which both countries are signatories. The copyright protection applies to written, musical, dramatic, and photographic works; oral accounts; film production; and computer software. Capital April 4. The National People's Congress adopted an amendment to the law on Chinese foreign equity joint ventures. The amendment stipulated that the State would not nationalize joint ventures, sim- plified the approval procedures for new foreign in- vestment enterprises (requiring a decision by the competent government authority within three months), and extended the management rights of foreigners (including permitting foreigners to as- sume the chairmanship of the board of directors of joint ventures). May 14. The Shanghai City Government an- nounced plans for the development of the Pudong New Area. The area is adjacent to Shanghai and covers 135 square miles. It is envisaged that the multibillion dollar project will take 30-40 years to complete. To attract foreign capital into the area, Chinese foreign joint ventures are to be offered tax incentives similar to those available in the special economic zones, and overseas businesses will be permitted to invest in the construction of airports, ports, railways, highways, and utilities, as well as to open foreign bank branches in Shanghai. Detailed regulations were announced in October 1990. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 109 May 19. The State Council issued regulations for the sale and transfer of land use rights in cities and towns to encourage foreign investors to plan long- term investment. Under these regulations, com- panies, enterprises, other organizations, and indi- viduals within and outside of China would be per- mitted to obtain land use rights and undertake land development. The maximum period for land use rights ranges from 40 years for commercial, tour- ism, or recreational uses to 50 years for industrial use and 70 years for residential use. The State Council issued provisional regulations for investment in large tracts of land to attract foreign firms' investment in tract development. Un- der these regulations, tract development refers to the obtaining of land use rights for state land and the development of infrastructure and other investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The Colombian authorities follow a policy of adjust- ing the peso in small amounts at relatively short intervals, taking into account (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its major trading partners; (2) the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves; and (3) Colombia's overall bal- ance of payments performance. Exchange sur- render and foreign payments are generally effected through the medium of exchange certificates, which are traded in the official market and in the stock exchange. In the case of export proceeds, ex- porters have the option of either immediate conver- sion or acquisition of exchange certificates with a maturity of 90 days that are redeemable at the Bank of the Republic anytime within this period. In the case of proceeds from exports of services (except from tourism and from expenditures of diplomatic missions), the Bank of the Republic does not re- deem, within a period of 80 days, exchange certifi- cates that were issued from November 21, 1990 to March 31,1991.1 On December 31,1990, the official rate (middle) for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was Col$568.73 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central bank) or authorized banks. Other effective exchange rates result from (1) a 6.5 percent tax on coffee export proceeds;3 (2) tax credit certificates (certificados de reembolso tributario or CERTs) granted at three different percentage rates for most export proceeds; (3) the imposition of a remittance tax at two different rates on certain service payments; and (4) an 85 percent advance exchange license deposit for import payments.4 The aThe measure requiring an 80-day waiting period for the re- demption of exchange certificates for transfer and services was revoked on January 9, 1991. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas (selling rate only), Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3The ad valorem tax on coffee export proceeds was eliminated on January 17, 1991 and replaced by a "coffee contribution" (contribution cafetera) (see footnote 7). 4The advance exchange license deposit requirement was abol- ished on January 9, 1991. peso equivalent of the Government's exchange re- ceipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury at an accounting rate applied by the Bank of the Republic; the Government purchases ex- change for all public debt payments and other ex- penditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell foreign exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por cer- tificados de cambio) to government enterprises in the oil sector and to public sector recipients of external loans in accordance with the terms of Resolution 20/1986 of the Monetary Board. These warrants, which are usually expressed in U.S. dollars, have a maturity of 24 months, and in some cases may also be exchanged for exchange certificates, provided that the holder presents an exchange license. Within their period of validity, warrants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos at the certificate market buying rate on the date of re- purchase. Warrants expressed in U.S. dollars bear interest at an interest rate equal to that of the exter- nal loan, but never higher than the average 30-day rate on primary certificates of deposit at the close of operations in the New York market for the day be- fore the certificate is issued if held by public sector recipients of external loans. Warrants held longer than 24 months cannot be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank of the Republic at the certificate market rate on the last day of the twenty-fourth month. All foreign exchange debts registered in the Ex- change Office in accordance with Decree No. 444 of 1967, Articles 128,131,132, and 139 are permitted to buy forward cover against exchange risks. (Resolu- tions 5/88 and 11/89 of the Monetary Board.) All fu ture contracts of foreign exchange must be regis- tered in the Exchange Office, and exchange rate guarantees are allowed to be provided only for the U.S. dollar against most of the other convertible currencies. Administration of Control All imports and exports require registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (!NCOMEX). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; how- ever, payments for specified current transactions, 110 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 111 when made through credit institutions, do not re- quire prior exchange licenses but must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post authentication. The Monetary Board is authorized periodically to draw up a foreign exchange budget. It can also establish priorities within that budget for the deliv- ery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Cof- fee Growers. Imports of goods not requiring a prior import license are not covered by the foreign ex- change budget. The Foreign Trade Council (FTC), which includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, IN- COMEX, other public entities, and two officers of the FTC, determines overall import and export policy. INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing, and ad- ministers Plan Vallejo, which is a special import- export arrangement concerning a rebate of taxes paid on imported inputs used in the production of exported goods. INCOMEX, together with the Com- mittee on Commercial Practices, administers anti- dumping cases. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department con- cerning direct investment in Colombia. The Ex- change Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trademarks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds from certain current invisibles is also subject to prior registration with the Exchange Of- fice. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, an autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for apply- ing penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of curren- cies that it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and re- ceipts are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies (see footnote 2). Settlements for com- mercial transactions with countries with which Co- lombia has reciprocal credit agreements must be made through special accounts in accordance with the provisions of such agreements. Settlements be- tween Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- tained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Hungary, Spain, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Banks must report transac- tions through these accounts to the Bank of the Republic and the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to one of the following two regimes: (1) freely importable goods, requiring only registration with INCOMEX; and (2) goods sub- ject to prior approval and requiring an import li- cense. In the free-import regime, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list applicable only to member countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to member coun- tries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. Imports subject to a prior licensing require- ment consist of certain agricultural products (94 tariff positions), medicines (15 tariff positions), and weapons (59 tariff positions). A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. Reimbursable imports involve purchase of official foreign exchange, in- cluding imports of machinery and equipment, fi- nanced by international credit institutions. Non- reimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether lo- cal substitutes are available. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for six months, except those for agricultural and livestock products, which are valid for three months. Import licenses can be extended for successive three-month periods, whereas registrations of free imports can be ex- tended for only two successive three-month peri- ods. All imports other than those classified as "minor imports" or shipments with an f .o .b. value of less than US$500 are subject to registration with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 COLOMBIA INCOMEX. Urgently needed spare parts not exceed- ing US$rO,000 are not subject to prior registration. The charge for import registration is Col$8,500. An advance exchange license deposit (consignation) has to be lodged at the official rate for exchange certifi- cates at least 21 calendar days prior to an application for an exchange license.5 The rate of deposit is 85 percent of the value of the exchange license. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products are subject to the prior approval of Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL). Import duties are calculated at the average selling rate for exchange certificates during the previous month, as determined by the Ministry of Finance. In addition to customs duties, there is a surtax of 13 percent. Exempted from this tax are temporary imports; imports by public entities; goods of LAIA origin; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, consular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined for the International Commerce Fair of Bogota, for the free port of San Andres y Providen- cia, or effected through the Port of Leticia. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. To obtain exchange licenses for freight payments, a freight company must, either directly or through agents in Colombia, lodge a deposit amounting to 85 percent of payment value. Services may be imported through special import- export arrangements. Most payments for invisibles, including banking commissions, international air travel, and expenses incurred in the exportation of noncoffee products, are subject to exchange licenses. Banks may transfer payments for certain other current invisibles with- out prior approval, including medical expenses, support of technical staff abroad, and the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with gov- ernment support, and for the service of registered foreign loans taken up by the financial sector. For- eign exchange purchases for travel are limited to the equivalent of US$10,000 a person a year; the limit for "special" travelers (defined as those traveling for purposes that have particular usefulness in the eco- nomic and social development of the country) is the equivalent of US$25,000 a person a year. Applica- tions for foreign exchange in excess of these limits to meet bona fide expenses may be approved by the Bank of the Republic. Registration fees for courses approved by ICETEX, as well as health and accident insurance for students, are not subject to limits. The transfer of profits accruing to foreign investors is normally limited to 25 percent of the registered direct investment a year.6 Profits beyond such a limit may be counted toward increasing the capital base. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period of not more than three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency on presentation of their passports. A remittance tax of 12 percent is applicable to a number of current pay- ments; for profits transferred by branches of foreign companies, the tax is 20 percent. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a tax of US$15 when they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required. INCOMEX may impose temporary restrictions on exports of certain products in case of domestic supply shortages. For purposes of export registration, exporters are re- quired to submit an export declaration (declaration de embarque) to INCOMEX through the customs admin- istration. The periods for surrendering export pro- ceeds are normally as follows: (1) for coffee, within 20 days of the date of registration of the export (180 days for instant coffee); and (2) for other goods, 3 months after the payment date as specified by the exporter. All exchange proceeds from exports must be sur- rendered to the Bank of the Republic, with the ex- ception of export proceeds of ECOPETROL, Federation National de Cafeteros, and exports of minerals asso- ciated with state enterprises, which are permitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, petro- leum and petroleum products, and certain number of other products may receive tax credit certificates in an amount corresponding to a specified percent- age of the f .o.b. value surrendered, converted at the average selling rate for the exchange certificates during the previous month as determined by the Ministry of Finance. Three rates —5 percent, 9 per- cent, and 12 percent —are applied, depending on the product and the country of destination; for the export proceeds of Plan Vallejo or goods produced in the free zones of the country, the rates are calcu- lated on domestic value added for specified assem- bly operations. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of 5The advance exchange license deposit requirement was abol- ished on January 9, 1991. 6Beginning on January 22,1991, the remittances abroad can be up to 100 percent of the registered direct investment a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 113 income tax, customs duties, and certain other taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by export- ers can, as an option, be effected by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates (of 90 days' maturity), which are negotiable on the stock exchange. Exports of coffee are subject to the following reg- ulations: (1) a minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed on the basis of the international market prices; (2) exporters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 6.5 percent ad valorem, of which 4.0 per- cent is paid to the National Coffee Fund, and the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury;7 (3) exporters must either surrender without pay- ment (in the form of untreated coffee) the equiv- alent of 5 percent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent; (4) exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 percent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio tax), which must be paid to the Federation either in kind or in pesos; and (5) a committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, ex- pressed in pesos per cargo, of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered;8 they are converted against exchange cer- tificates, which can be sold on the stock exchange. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is an 85 percent advance deposit on all outflows, which must be lodged before application can be made for an exchange license.9 7The ad valorem tax on exports of coffee, as well as the addi- tional pasilla y ripio tax were eliminated on January 17, 1991, and replaced by a coffee contribution (contribution cafetera). This con- tribution is determined by the difference between the export value of coffee surrendered and its estimated cost, taking into account the domestic buying price for export-type coffee (precio interno de sustentacion). 8With effect from January 25, 1991, exchange receipts from tourism, labor contracts abroad, donations, and amounts less than US$20,000 are not required to be surrendered. 9The advance deposit requirement was eliminated on Jan- uary 9,1991. Until February 28,1991, exchange licenses would be approved for the prepayment on repurchases of private sector external debt that were refinanced in 1984, provided that a dis- count had been obtained. These debt-service obligations were exempted from the prior advance deposit requirement. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new for- eign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank residents,10 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously regis- tered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Exchange Office. Direct foreign investment regulations in Colom- bia are governed by Decree No. 444 of 1967, Decree No. 1265 of July 10,1987, and are in accordance with the provisions of Decision No. 220 of the Cartagena Agreement, which governs foreign investment within the member countries of the Andean Pact. Foreign capital participation in the financial sector up to 49 percent is permitted under Law No. 74 of December 1989. Foreign capital participation ex- ceeding 50 percent is permitted in the institutions that receive support from the Guarantee Fund (Fondo de Garantfas) also under Law No. 74. The National Council for Economic and Social Planning (CONPES) can legislate special conditions affecting foreign investment so as to overrule the above- mentioned provisions, including Resolutions 29 and 44 of CONPES. Foreign investment can amount to 100 percent of ownership. If the enterprise is en- titled to the benefits under the provisions of the Cartagena Agreement, however, foreign invest- ment is required to become 51 percent Colombian- owned by the thirtieth year after its registration, with the exception of investment in enterprises that satisfy one of the following conditions: (1) at least 25 percent of their production is exported; or (2) at least 50 percent of their material inputs are of Co- lombian origin. Member countries of the Andean Pact are treated as Colombian investors for pur- poses of fulfilling the Colombian ownership re- quirement, provided that profit and capital remit- tances remain within the country of origin and shares are not sold outside the area. Capital imports require the prior approval of the National Planning Department,11 with the excep- tion of capital for the petroleum industry, which requires the approval of the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and capital for mineral exploration other than petroleum, which requires the approval of the National Planning Department and the recommen- dation of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Foreign 10Loans by financial entities for the importation of goods also require registration; their repayment is authorized by the ex- change license covering the relevant import transaction. Such loans are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). 11 With effect from January 22, 1991, the prior approval of the National Planning Department is required only with respect to investments exceeding US$5 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1U COLOMBIA direct investment is prohibited in public services, all branches of communication, television, film dis- tribution and showing, internal passenger transport (except tourism), and residential construction.12 All foreign banks and their branches must have Colom- bian majority participation, unless (1) they have re- ceived support from the Guaranteed Fund (Fondos de Garantias); (2) the subscription of new shares or contracting of debt instruments among national in- vestors is not possible; (3) foreigners would thereby be deprived of their present property share in any financial institution; or (4) local authorities consider that the potential contribution in terms of capital, technology, and competitiveness for the sector justi- fies a majority foreign participation. New foreign direct investment in banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions is permitted to in- vestors from member countries of the Andean Pact on the basis of reciprocal treatment. The purchase of 10 percent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Banking Superintendent. Capital registration with the Exchange Office en- titles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital under specified conditions. The transfer of profits is limited to 25 percent of registered direct investment with certain exceptions.13 Profit remit- tances from direct investment in internal explora- tion may be limited to a percentage of dollar- denominated capital determined by adding 25 points to the average New York prime interest rate prevailing in the year of registration of the foreign investment transaction, as estimated by the Bank of the Republic. Other special regimes are applicable to (1) the earthquake-hit area of Popayan, which allow profit remittances up to 1996 on invested capi- tal in a percentage equivalent to 25 percent above the average New York prime interest rate; and (2) bordering regions, which allow transfer of profits up to 29 percent of the dollar-denominated investment. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian individuals or firms are generally subject to a mini- mum maturity of five years with two years of grace and an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or LIBOR. Such loans are nor- mally permitted only for financing working capital or fixed investment. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide im- port financing from foreign currency borrowed 12With effect from January 22, 1991, the sectors in which foreign investment are prohibited or restricted were decreased. 13With effect from January 22, 1991, the limit has been in- creased to 100 percent. abroad. Foreign loans for governmental entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Govern- ment, or guaranteed by the Government, the fol- lowing are also required: prior authorization from the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and from the Monetary Board; prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit; and ex post approval from the President of the Republic. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that authorizes the initiation of negotiations. Foreign investments in the form of a placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted with the approval of the National Planning Board. Foreign capital in- vested in these funds can be repatriated only five years after registration with the Exchange Office, and following the third year of their creation, at least 60 percent of the assets of the funds must be in- vested in stock or in convertible debt instruments. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to en- able the beneficiary to make transfers abroad; they also require approval from the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties, but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the investment. Exports of capital by residents are restricted and require the prior authorization of the National Planning Board and the Exchange Office.14 Current deposit accounts in foreign currency may be held by export firms, transportation companies, and other specified entities, upon prior authoriza- tion of the Exchange Office. A ceiling equivalent to 15 percent of their total foreign liabilities is applied on the foreign currency deposits that may be held by domestic financial institutions. Gold Natural and juridical persons may trade in Co- lombia in gold coins for numismatic purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export 14Under Law No. 9 of January 17, 1991, Colombian residents are authorized to maintain assets and earned income abroad, provided that assets were owned before September 1, 1990 or they have been acquired from exchange receipts that do not have to be surrendered (see footnote 8). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 115 gold.15 Imports of nonmonetary gold are not nor- mally undertaken. The Bank of the Republic pur- chases locally produced gold at the average price prevailing in the London, Zurich, and New York markets on the day preceding the domestic gold purchase plus 3 percent. The Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 3 percent on the total payment received by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equivalent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad during the previous day; this price is converted into pesos at the prevailing rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the mining companies producing gold are under the supervi- sion of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies and traders must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time issues commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes During 1990 Administration of Control January 1. Imports of goods not subject to a prior import license would not be covered by the foreign exchange budget authorized by the Monetary Board. Imports and Import Payments February 1-March 28. Eight hundred sixty-one tar- iff positions were transferred from the category of goods requiring prior import license to the category of freely importable goods. Within the category of imports subject to prior license, 781 tariff positions were classified in a subcategory under which the license would be granted almost automatically (previa-libre). For 744 tariff positions, an auction sys- tem was introduced, permitting the allocation of specific foreign exchange budgets (previa-encuesta). The right to import would be auctioned, subject to a maximum for each tariff position and for each per- son, in the form of a premium over the applicable import tariff rate. Potential importers were required to lodge a deposit equivalent to the premium they are offering at the time they submit their bid for the 15Under Law No. 9 of January 17, 1991, Colombian residents were allowed to purchase, sell, hold, import, and export gold. However, for a period of two years, the Government would impose certain restrictions on these activities, including eligi- bility of the institutions or persons allowed to export gold. import license. The level of the additional tariff, which applies to a tariff position included in this subcategory, would be equal to the marginal bid that exhausts the foreign exchange for the particular tariff position, or the lowest bid accepted in the event that the foreign exchange budget for that tariff position was not exhausted. A third subcategory (previa-cupo) was established with 350 tariff posi- tions for which imports would be allowed, subject to a foreign exchange budget, and for which the alloca- tion would be made at the discretion of the IN- COMEX. For another 356 tariff positions (previa- previa), the existing system would be applied, under which the approval of licenses would be conditional on meeting certain domestic production criteria. March 28. The tariff rates on nearly one half of the tariff positions were modified, bringing a reduction in the average (unweighted) tariff rates to 24 percent from 27 percent. The maximum tariff rate was re- duced to 100 percent from 200 percent, and with the exception of two tariff positions, the maximum tariff rate was reduced to 50 percent from 100 percent. April 6. The import surcharge rate was reduced to 16 percent from 18 percent. July 11. An antidumping law was approved, un- der which compensatory duties could be imposed during the period of the investigation. May 8. Thirteen tariff positions were transferred to the category of freely importable goods. A total of 18 tariff positions were transferred from previa-cupo to previa-libre, but tires were transferred to a more restricted category. June 12. The requirement of prior import licenses was eliminated in respect of 113 tariff positions, as a result of their transfer to the category of freely im- portable goods. July 24. Four hundred eighty-nine tariff positions were transferred from the category of imports sub- ject to prior import license to the category of freely importable goods. The number of tariff positions in the subcategories of previa-libre, previa-encuesta, and previa-cupo were reduced to 541, 552, and 236, re- spectively. All 54 tariff positions, whose importation was prohibited, were moved to the category requir- ing a prior import license. September 17. The import surcharge rate was re- duced to 13 percent from 16 percent. The tariff rates on nearly one thousand tariff positions were changed, with reductions affecting mostly capital and intermediary goods; as a result, the average (unweighted) tariff rate declined to 22 percent from 24 percent. September 19. Four hundred sixty-five tariff posi- tions were transferred from the previa-libre sub- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 COLOMBIA category of goods subject to a prior import license to the category of freely importable goods. October 5. Until December 31, 1990, exchange li- censes would be approved for the prepayment of imports before the date that the importer had indi- cated on the registration forms or prior import licenses. October 24. The presentation of the declaration to customs (maniftesto de importation) was eliminated as a requirement for obtaining approval of an ex- change license for import payments. October 24. Until February 28, 1991, exchange li- censes would be approved for the prepayment or the repurchase of private sector external credits, which were refinanced in 1984, provided that a dis- count was obtained. These debt-service obligations were exempted from the prior advance deposit requirement. October 31. Until December 31,1990, the advance deposits lodged against imports of goods would be converted into foreign exchange at the exchange rate of the day of deposit. November 6. The prior import license requirement was eliminated with respect to all imports, except those falling under 168 tariff positions. The 168 positions included certain agricultural products (94 tariff positions), medicines (15 tariff positions), and weapons (59 tariff positions). November 14. Tariff rates affecting primarily capi- tal and intermediate goods were modified; as a re- sult, the average tariff rate declined by 1 percentage point to 21 percent, and the number of tariff levels was reduced to 10 from 14. Payments for Invisibles October 5. A limit of 80 percent for payment of freight on imports and exports was eliminated, per- mitting the payment of 100 percent of the cost of freight. The limits on foreign exchange purchases for travel abroad were increased, now granting up to a total of US$10,000 a person a calendar year, and up to US$25,000 a person a calendar year for "special" trav- elers (defined as those traveling for purposes having particular usefulness in the economic and social de- velopment of the country). The prior authorization by ICETEX for purchases of foreign exchange for study purposes was eliminated, except for those cases when the Government considers a request to be necessary. All bona fide applications for foreign exchange in excess of the prescribed limits would be granted with the approval from the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic. Exports and Export Proceeds May 31. It was announced, with effect from Au- gust 1, 1990, that the prior registration with IN- COMEX for all exports, except samples and those exported in noncommercial quantities, would be replaced by the use of export declarations (dec- laration de embarque) which exporters are required to prepare for customs purposes, and a copy of decla- rations would be sent to INCOMEX for the purpose of export registration. July 25. The period for surrendering proceeds from exports, other than coffee, was changed to three months after the date of receipt of payment as declared by the exporter, from a system under which the surrender was required within six months of registration. The personal or bank guar- antees that were required for exports of goods were eliminated. July 25. The system by which the Bank of the Republic retained a portion of exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts on imports under the Vallejo Plan was elimi- nated. The purchases of foreign exchange for im- ports under the Vallejo Plan would, henceforth, be subject to the normal procedures. September 19. The formula by which the minimum surrender price (reintegro) of coffee is established was modified, whereby the daily price would be equal to the selling price of coffee from the National Federation of Coffee Growers to the National Coffee Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles November 21. The Bank of the Republic stopped redeeming, within a period of 80 days, all exchange certificates in respect of receipts from services (ex- cept for those from tourism and expenditures of diplomatic missions), which would be issued from November 21, 1990 to March 31, 1991. Capital June 6. The ceiling applicable to foreign currency deposits that domestic commercial banks and fi- nancial corporations could hold was increased to 15 percent from 8 percent of their total foreign ex- change liabilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 = F 0.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies1 are also officially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the respective currencies in terms of the French franc. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is autho- rized by the Central Bank of the Comoros and is provided to traders by the commercial banks for up to three months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of the Comoros. The Ministry of Finance and Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward invest- ments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an autho- rized bank —the sole commercial bank —and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Min- istry of Economy and Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 1 Currencies quoted on the Paris official market: Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaïres. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of the Comoros maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the cur- rencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of South African origin are prohibited, and the importation of certain other goods is pro- hibited from all countries. The importation from any source of certain other commodities is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Invisible pay- ments to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted on production of supporting docu- ments, in accordance with Article 3 of Instruction No. 2 of the Exchange Regulations. These regula- tions apply to allowances for education, family maintenance, and medical treatment, and remit- tances by foreign workers of savings from their earnings. For tourist travel, residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out the equivalent of CF 500,000 in bank notes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out in any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. For business travel, the Central Bank of the Comoros may authorize a spe- cial allowance upon request of the authorized bank. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 COMOROS Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in bank notes and any means of pay- ment issued abroad in their name without provid- ing documentary justification. Other cases are au- thorized pursuant to the Exchange Regulations upon production of supporting documents. Repatriations of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investment are autho- rized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are free of license. Most exports to other coun- tries require licenses. Proceeds from exports to for- eign countries must normally be collected, and the receipts repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, must be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes and coins. Capital All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control ap- proval, but capital receipts from such countries are normally permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, inward direct invest- ment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but trans- fers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the curren- cies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as the purchase of these countries' bank notes and traveler's checks, are subject to a commission of 0.75 percent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this com- mission are payments of the state, the Postal Ad- ministration, and the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or train- ing abroad, and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Congo. Most payments to other foreign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 percent, and foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Of- fice is subject to a commission of 0.50 percent, with a minimum of CFAF 100. A commission of 0.25 per- cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and investment aThe CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Gabon, and Equatorial Guinea. transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Ex- change control is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval authority to the General Directorate. All exchange transactions must be effected through au- thorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Commerce. With the exception of 13 products, the system of import li- censes has been replaced by a system of ex post declarations (Decree No. 88/414, May 28, 1988). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC bank notes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require a declaration or a license. An indicative annual import program distinguishes five zones: (1) the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other Operations Ac- count countries; (4) European Community (EC) countries other than France; and (5) all remaining countries. Thirteen product items under this pro- gram require licenses, and others are subject to ex post declaration. The quotas for non-EC countries 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO may be used to import goods originating in any non-Operations Account country. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and they require a visa from the Foreign Trade Directorate and the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles im- porters to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insur- ance company, Societe d'assurances et de reassurances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Congolese Customs Service releases imports only after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely, provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized inter- mediary; those to other foreign countries are sub- ject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are permitted with the authorization of the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Opera- tions Account countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; they must surrender any foreign ex- change in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after their return to the Congo. Business travelers receive a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, sub- ject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; additional amounts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is pro- hibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zairian bank notes. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Opera- tions Account country may take out CFAF 25,OC(0 (CFAF 12,500 for children under 10 years) in BEAC bank notes. Residents and nonresidents traveling to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, all exports require prior authoriza- tion, but most exports to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be made freely; among the exceptions are com- modities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office du cafe et du cacao and Office des cultures vivrieres) and by the Congolese Marketing Office for Timber (Office congolais du bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destina- tion. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relat- ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be col- lected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free, although ex post declarations are required. Such movements to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent. Most international ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 121 capital transactions are subject to prior authoriza- tion. Capital transfers abroad require exchange con- trol approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All for- eign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody- ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the is- suing, advertising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. For- eign direct investments in the Congo3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget, unless they involve the creation of a mixed- economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior autho- rization from the Minister of Finance and the Bud- get. Exempt from authorization, however, are oper- ations in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, ad- vertising, or offering for sale in the Congo has al- ready been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- 2Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Congo. Including those involving the transfer, between nonresi- dents, of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. nance and the Budget. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited, unless special authori- zation is obtained from the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign curren- cies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 percent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29,1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and the Budget is re- quired. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury or the BEAC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon. Costa Rica follows a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate is adjusted from time to time, taking into account relative rates of inflation between Costa Rica and its trading part- ners and balance of payments developments. All transactions, with the exception of allowances for studies abroad (see below), take place at the unified exchange rate. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling banking rates were C 102.55 and C 104.55 per US$1, respectively. The official ex- change rate of C 20.0 = US$1 is used exclusively for granting foreign exchange to students in foreign countries who registered with the Central Bank prior to 1981. The spread between the buying and selling rates in the banking exchange market is le- gally set at C 2.00. Purchases and sales of other Central American currencies are effected on the basis of quotations in colones, taking into account the value of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the parallel exchange markets of the respective countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risks operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1, 1965. Costa Rica became a contracting party to the Gen- eral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, as from Octo- ber 17. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. The only institutions authorized to deal with foreign exchange transactions are the Central Bank of Costa Rica, the state commercial banks, and cer- tain private banks authorized by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in U.S. dollars. Payments to Central America in respect of trade may be made in U.S. dollars or in local currencies through the Central American Clearing System. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing, and all import pay- ments may be made freely. All imports must be registered in the Central Bank before removal from customs or before the submission of requests for foreign exchange, with the following exceptions: (1) temporary imports; (2) domestically produced goods reimported into Costa Rica; (3) imports by diplomatic and foreign missions and international organizations; and (4) household items. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licen- cia de trueque), issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Customs tariff rates range from zero to 56 per- cent, although a minimum tariff of 10 percent is applied temporarily to almost all imports. In addi- tion to any applicable customs tariff, the following taxes are levied on imports: (1) a tax of 1 percent on import value; (2) a sales tax of 10 percent ad val- orem, from which certain essential items are ex- empt; and (3) a selective consumption tax at rates varying from zero to 75 percent, depending on how essential the item is considered to be. Surcharges on imports from Central America are levied at a max- imum rate of 2 percent, except for capital goods and samples, which are exempt. Vehicles used in paid (public service) transporta- tion, trucks, ambulances, and hearses, and chassis with single or dual cab are exempt from the sur- charge. Other vehicles with an import value of up to US$6,000 are subject to a surcharge of 17 percent, and those with a larger import value are subject to a surcharge of 152 percent. Pickup trucks with a weight capacity of up to 1 ton are subject to a sur- charge of 17 percent, and those with a weight ex- ceeding 1 ton are exempt. Minibuses for collective transportation and vehi- cles with displacement of up to 1,500 cubic centi- meters or with a customs value of up to US$7,000 are subject to a selective consumption tax of 12 percent. Those with a displacement of up to 1,500 cubic centimeters and a customs value exceeding US$7,000 are subject to a selective consumption tax of 20 percent, and those with a displacement of more than 1,500 centimeters and a customs value exceeding US$7,000 are subject to a selective con- sumption tax of 30 percent. Other vehicles are sub- ject to a selective consumption tax of up to 75 per- cent, depending on value, displacement, and 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 123 accessories. Pickup trucks with a standard weight of up to 1 ton are also subject to a selective consump- tion tax of 25 percent; those with a weight of over 1 ton are exempt. An advance deposit equivalent to 30 percent of the value of imports is required at the time of sub- mission of applications for foreign exchange to au- thorized dealers. Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 percent or 5 percent are levied on remittances of dividends. The 5 percent withholding tax is levied on dividends distributed by stock companies whose shares were acquired at the stock exchange and are registered at an officially acknowledged stock exchange. Remittances abroad of interest are subject to a 15 percent withholding tax, except for remittances to foreign banks or to their financial entities recognized by the Central Bank as institutions normally engaged in interna- tional transactions, including payments to foreign suppliers for commodity imports. Interest on loans from foreign institutions recognized by the Central Bank as first-rate institutions is not taxed if the funds are used by resident firms for industrial or agricultural/livestock activities. Interest on govern- ment borrowing abroad is exempt. Costa Rican na- tionals and resident foreigners traveling abroad by air, land, or sea must pay a travel exit tax in colones equivalent to US$30; Costa Rican nationals who res- ide abroad must pay, in addition, a consular fee of US$20 upon renewal of their passports abroad. For residents covered by Law No. 4812 (pensionados rentistas) and residents not so covered, the payment differs from the national one. Costa Rican diplomats and certain Peace Corps officials pay an exit fee of only C 117, provided their passport states that they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from these payments, unless so determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Migration Council. Costa Rican minors are sub- ject to all of the above payments, except for depen- dents of diplomatic parents, who pay only the C117 exit fee. Commercial banks dealing in the unified market may sell foreign exchange—without the prior au- thorization of the Central Bank —in the following amounts: (1) for foreign travel to destinations out- side Central America, a limit of US$125 a day up to US$2,000 a traveler (upon presentation of passport and travel tickets, commercial banks are authorized to sell the equivalent of this amount) and for travel within Central America, US$75 a day up to US$750 a traveler; (2) for family remittances, up to US$500 a person a month to a maximum of US$1,000 a family; and (3) for registered students, a maximum of US$500 a month for living expenses, in addition to tuition, textbooks, and insurance, upon presenta- tion of documents. Subject to approval by the Cen- tral Bank, these limits may be exceeded where justi- fied by evidence of bona fide current expenditures for the specified purpose. Prior authorization by the Central Bank is also required for any foreign ex- change purchases for the servicing of private for- eign debt, foreign payment of dividends, royalties, patent rights, and professional services. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered to the banking system; the latter sell to the Central Bank all of their purchases. Exporters of nontraditional commodities to markets outside Central America are entitled to receive tax credit certificates (CATs, which are freely negotiable) for 15 percent of the f .o .b. value in the case of exports to the United States and Puerto Rico, and for 15 percent or 20 per- cent in the case of exports to markets outside Cen- tral America. Exports are subject to a license issued by the Central Bank. In addition to this license, other ex- port licenses are required for the following: strategic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); sugar (from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, root of ipecacuanha, onions, cotton, meat, and pure-bred cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); lumber, certain live- stock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock); and cof- fee (from the Coffee Institute); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports to Central America must be made through the Central American Clearing System. Exchange proceeds from exports of coffee, ba- nanas, sugar, beef, and bovine cattle must be sur- rendered within 30 days of shipment; those from exports of other perishable items, within 60 days of shipment; those from exports of industrial products except for capital goods, within 120 days of ship- ment; and those from exports of capital goods, within 360 days of shipment. There are no taxes on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 COSTA RICA nontraditional exports to countries outside the Cen- tral American area and Panama; taxes are levied on traditional exports, in some cases, graduated in line with the international prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions, but receipts from invisibles may be ex- changed into colones only at the Central Bank or other authorized institutions. Capital All capital transfers between residents and non- residents may be made, subject to prior author- ization by the Central Bank. Capital received by the private sector may be registered at the Cen- tral Bank of Costa Rica, provided that it meets various requirements, including the requirements that (1) the project financed with the funds has (or will eventually have), directly or indirectly, a posi- tive effect on Costa Rica's balance of payments; (2) the amount of the capital is not less than US$5,000; and (3) the individual concerned sells the foreign exchange to the Central Bank or to any other bank in the national banking system. The registration guarantees the individual that the Cen- tral Bank will sell to him the exchange required to service the debt at the exchange rate in force at the time the servicing is effected. An annual limit of 6.25 percent of the face value of the debt converted is imposed on dividend remittances associated with debt/equity conversions. The National Budget Authority1 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the Central Government, de- centralized agencies, and state enterprises. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U.S. dollars with agent banks in the form of specified foreign curren- cies or be invested in certificates of deposit denomi- nated in colones; such funds, when they mature, 1 Composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Plan- ning, and the President of the Central Bank. are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its Board. Natural and juridical persons may negotiate, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except na- tional archaeological treasures, pursuant to Law No. 6703 of December 18, 1981), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank may sell unrefined gold to artistic or professional users or to enterprises that export jewelry. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement May 31. The spread between the buying and sell- ing rates in the banking exchange market was in- creased from <C 1.00 to C 1.75. December 13. The spread between the buying and selling rates in the banking exchange market was increased from C 1.75 to C 2.00. Imports and Import Payments July 9. The minimum import duty on most raw materials, intermediate goods, and capital goods was increased to 10 percent. December 12. The ratio of the import deposit re- quirement, which was 1 percent up to December 12, was raised to 30 percent. December 16. The maximum tariff rate was re- duced to 56 percent as part of a trade reform aimed at reducing the maximum tariff rate to 40 percent over three to five years in accordance with the re- form which began in 1987. (On January 7, 1991, a temporary import sur- charge of 10 percent was imposed.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies no commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks and the postal system levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the ex- change control measures of Cote d'lvoire do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and goods must be shipped within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward ex- change cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated as essential commodities; no renewal of cover is possible. For- ward cover against exchange rate risk is permitted, with prior authorization from the Directorate of Ex- ternal Finance and Credit, only in respect of pay- ments for imports of goods and only for the cur- rency stipulated in the commercial contract. There JThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de VQuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. are no official schemes for currency swaps or guar- anteed exchange rates for debt servicing. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of External Finance and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cote dTvoire is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Ac- counts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other in- stitute of issue that maintains an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury is prohibited. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 COTE D'lVOIRE Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Under the current regulations, all imports are classified into four categories, as follows: (1) prohibited im- ports (e.g., wheat flour and used garments); (2) im- port items (e.g., paints, matches, and detergents) for which import licenses are obligatory for each import transaction equal to or exceeding CFAF 25,000, f.o.b.; (3) import items requiring a declaration of intent to import; and (4) import items requiring both prior authorization and a declaration of intent to import. In the last two cases, (3) and (4), the requirements apply only to individual transac- tions equal to or exceeding CFAF 100,000, f .o .b. As noted below, certain other import items are subject to annual volume or value quotas. Thus, imports of rice depend on domestic production, since they are intended as a supplementary means of satisfying domestic demand; such imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid or a government-to-government contract. All other imports may be made freely from any coun- try; however, as mentioned above, imports made freely are subject to submission of an import decla- ration when their f.o.b. value is CFAF 100,000 or more, and, in some instances, authorization is also required. Unless specifically exempted, when the f .o .b. value exceeds CFAF 1.5 million, they are sub- ject to preshipment inspection by international agencies to control their price, quantity, and quality. A special import duty of 10 percent is levied on all imports with only a few exceptions; exempted from the duty are live animals, fish, dairy products, pe- troleum products, pharmaceuticals, books, and products imported under the investment code. A statistical tax of 2.5 percent is levied on the c .i .f. value of all imports, except petroleum. During 1989, tariffs were raised with a view to harmonizing effec- tive protection of local production; in the case of some goods, quotas were replaced by temporary surcharges scheduled to decline progressively dur- ing a five-year period that began in 1988. Imports from member countries of the West African Eco- nomic Community (WAEC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are exempt from the surcharges. All import operations relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value must also be domiciled with an autho- rized bank if a financial transaction is to be under- taken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment, if a documentary credit is opened, or only on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Since June 15, 1981, foreign exchange for import pay- ments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or when the required down payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries must be approved. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted freely when the basic trans- action has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely at any time through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without submitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years). For business travel, a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Cote dTvoire must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Cote d'lvoire is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO bank notes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, the amount taken out must be declared to customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any trav- eler's checks, issued abroad. Subject to documenta- tion, they may also take out any amount of traveler's checks, in foreign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs, or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Cote d'lvoire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 127 Nonresidents who have made a currency declara- tion upon entry or are able to show the proper banking notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of certain processed and unprocessed agricultural commodities, however, require an ex- port license issued by the Directorate of External Trade. An export premium is applied on the basis of the domestic value added in locally manufactured products and agricultural products, excluding cof- fee, cocoa, cotton, and pineapples. Export taxes are waived for products receiving the premium, and products covered by taxation agreements under the WAEC are not eligible for the premium. The due date for payment in respect of exports to foreign countries, including those in the Operations Ac- count Area, must not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of settlement and the buying coun- try, export receipts must be collected and repatri- ated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destina- tion, all export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes or other foreign means of payment must surrender any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an autho- rized bank within eight days and must make a dec- laration to customs upon entry. Capital Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require ex- change control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or of- fering for sale of foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire. Such operations require prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Cote d'lvoire companies. Exempt from authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Govern- ment of Cote d'lvoire, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote d'lvoire has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Ac- count countries. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and in- stitutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization from the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct invest- ments in Cote d'lvoire4 must be authorized in ad- vance by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Effective June 15,1981, at least 75 percent of invest- ments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire must be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of investments, whether direct investments or not, in Cote d'lvoire or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Cote d'lvoire investments abroad or foreign investments in Cote d'lvoire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct in- vestments are defined as investments implying con- trol of a company or an enterprise. Mere partici- pation is not considered as direct investment, Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Cote d'lvoire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Cote d'lvoire. including those made in Cote d'lvoire by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cote d'lvoire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 COTE D'lVOIRE provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents must be authorized in advance by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. The following are, however, ex- empt from this authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Cote d'lvoire, or by approved international trading houses to fi- nance international merchanting transactions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, includ- ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities pre- scribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Under the investment code introduced in 1984, special incentives are provided for foreign and do- mestic investments in certain priority sectors and priority geographical areas. The incentives include exemption from customs duties and tariffs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for in- vestment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote d'lvoire. In addition, all such investments are exempted for a specified period, depending on the investment sector or area, from corporate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption covers 100 percent of applicable tax up to the third- to-last year of the exemption period, and is reduced progressively to 75 percent of the tax in the second- to-last year of the exemption period, 50 percent in the second-to-last year, and 25 percent in the last year of the exemption period. Imports of intermedi- ate goods or raw materials for which no equivalents are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Cote d'lvoire. Imports and ex- ports of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments May 29. A compensatory import duty was intro- duced on all meat products. The rate of duty varies according to the difference between the cost of im- ported meat and the price of domestic substitute. The maximum duty ranges from CFAF 300 to CFAF 600. A 2.5 percent statistical tax was introduced on all imports, excluding petroleum products, replacing the 2 percent statistical tax that had been introduced on July 28,1989. The tax would be calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. The exchange rate of the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily, with the aim of maintaining its effective rela- tionship with the currencies of its main trading part- ners. On December 31,1990, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.4342 and £C 0.4359 respec- tively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the deut- sche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound ster- ling. These rates are subject to change throughout the day. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies1 on the basis of market rates in international money market centers. Subject to cer- tain limitations, including a limit on spreads be- tween the buying and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are allowed to trade in the forward market at rates that may be freely negoti- ated with their customers. For U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, however, these rates may not d i f fer by more than the premiums or discounts that are applied by the Central Bank for cover for a similar period. Authorized dealers are allowed to purchase forward cover from the Central Bank at prevailing rates or to conduct forward operations between two foreign currencies for cover in one of the two curren- cies. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for exports, for periods of up to 24 months. Cover for imports is normally provided for up to 6 months. When justified (e.g., payments for imports of raw materials for exports or capital goods), rates are quoted for up to 15 months. For- ward contracts must be based on genuine commer- cial commitments. Forward cover may also be pro- vided for periods up to 12 months to residents for specific financial commitments. Cyprus formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from January 9, 1991. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs (com- mercial), Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swed- ish kronor, Swiss francs, and European Currency Units (ECUs). Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank in cooperation with authorized dealers. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may open and maintain with authorized dealers Nonresident Accounts in Cyprus Pounds, designated External Accounts, or Foreign Currency Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other External Accounts or Foreign Currency Accounts), proceeds from sales of any foreign cur- rency by nonresidents (including declared bank notes), and the entire proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the sale of an investment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with authorized payments in Cyprus pounds. External Accounts and Foreign Currency Accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for remittances abroad, for transfers to other External Accounts or Foreign Currency Accounts, and for payments in cash (Cyprus pounds) in Cyprus. Companies registered or incorporated in Cyprus that are accorded non- resident status by the Central Bank as well as their nonresident employees may maintain External Ac- counts and Foreign Currency Accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting their payments in Cyprus. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in their entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government- currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus 2 Foreign pound. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 CYPRUS guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds is freely transferable to the nonresident bene- ficiary or it may be credited to an External Account or Foreign Currency Account. In addition to in- come, the principal that may be released annually from blocked funds for transfer outside Cyprus is up to £C 5,000. Funds can also be released from Blocked Accounts to meet reasonable expenses in Cyprus of the account holder and his family, includ- ing educational expenses, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, payments for the acquisition of immovable property in Cyprus, and any other amounts authorized by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, and fresh meat are prohibited. Most other imports are free of licensing requirements. Only imports of cer- tain commodities require an import license, includ- ing goods produced or manufactured locally, all machinery, plant and equipment, and spare parts and accessories. The Minister of Commerce and Industry may take measures whenever required to regulate the impor- tation of goods for the encouragement of local pro- duction and manufacture. Exchange is allocated freely and without restriction through authorized dealers to pay for imports, provided that documen- tary evidence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Advance payments before shipment require the prior approval of the Central Bank, except for im- ports whose value does not exceed £C 2,000. Since October 1989, authorized dealers have been allowed to issue to departing residents of Cyprus foreign exchange up to £C 20,000 for the purchase and importation of goods to Cyprus. Foreign exchange in excess of £C 20,000 may be issued with the ap- proval of the Central Bank. Payments for imports requiring a license are expected to be made within the time limits specified on the license. An import surcharge of 6 percent (3.9 percent for imports from European Community (EC) countries) ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feeds tuff, Pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the ap- proval of the Central Bank, but approval authority for certain types of payments has been delegated to authorized dealers. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments are transferable abroad without limitation, after payment of any due charges and taxes. Insurance premiums owed to foreign insurance companies are remittable after deduction of all contingencies. Allowances are granted for study abroad at col- leges, universities, or other institutions of higher education, and certain lower-level institutions of learning. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living and cover the full amount of tuition fees plus living expenses for the student. The maximum annual allowance for living expenses for studies in Western European countries, excluding Greece, is £C 4,000; for Greece £C 2,500; for Canada and the United States, £C 5,000; for Eastern European and Middle Eastern countries, £C 2,200; and for all other countries, £C 3,000. There is no limit on the remit- tance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. Any amount of foreign exchange may be allo- cated for tourist travel abroad. The maximum ceil- ing of foreign exchange for tourist travel was lifted on November 1,1990, in the context of the liberaliza- tion measures taken by the Central Bank. Autho- rized dealers have been allowed, without any refer- ence to the Central Bank, to provide foreign exchange up to £C 750 a person a trip. In addition, the Central Bank approves applications for alloca- tions of additional foreign exchange without limita- tion to cover genuine travel expenses for tourism purposes. The allowance for business travel is not fixed, but depends on the length of stay abroad, the country or countries to be visited, and the purpose. Authorized dealers are empowered to provide up to £C 100 a day with a maximum of £C 1,000. Com- pany credit cards valid abroad are issued to busi- nessmen and professionals traveling abroad on business. Credit cards entitle the holders to cover their expenses for hotel and restaurant bills and transportation expenses without limit and personal expenses not exceeding £C 400 a trip. If the traveler holds an international card, the foreign exchange that may be issued by authorized dealers is up to £C 60 a day. As of July 22, 1989, authorized dealers have also been allowed to issue personal credit cards to certain categories of persons. In addition to settle- ments of hotel, restaurant, and transportation ex- penses, credit cards may be used to obtain advances from an authorized dealer of up to £C 100 a trip for car rentals and up to £C 300 a trip for any other purpose. Credit cards may also be used for pay- ments of up to £C 300 for mail orders of books or other items by enterprises. Additional amounts for business travel in general may be provided with the approval of the Central Bank. Authorized dealers are empowered to issue allowances of up to £C 3,000 for medical expenses. On leaving Cyprus, travelers may take out with them up to £C 50 in currency notes. There is no limit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 131 on the amount of foreign currency notes that de- parting residents may take out of the country as part of any of their foreign exchange allowances. Non- resident travelers may take out any amount of for- eign currency notes they declared on arrival. For- eign currency notes equivalent to up to US$1,000 need not be declared, except when they are to be deposited with an authorized dealer. In addition, authorized dealers may convert up to £C 100 into foreign currency for departing nonresidents. Fur- thermore, authorized dealers are permitted to issue to nonresidents as well as to resident employees of offshore companies any amount of foreign currency notes against external funds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes and carrots are subject to control by the respective marketing boards, and those of wheat, barley, and maize to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports of cement re- quire a license to ensure adequate domestic supply. All exports are subject to licensing when their f .o.b. value exceeds £C 100, to ensure the repatriation of the sale proceeds. Export proceeds must be surren- dered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized dealer. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Transfers abroad of a capital nature are not nor- mally permitted. Applications for direct investment abroad by residents are approved only if the pro- posed investments will promote exports of goods and services and if the amount required is small. Investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which, in considering applications, gives due regard to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings or earnings, the introduc- tion of know-how, and, in general, the benefits ac- cruing to the national economy. Foreign direct in- vestment is normally permitted in selected fields of production, such as export-oriented industries and new products. Annual profits and proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments, including capital gains, may be repatriated in full at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes. With the permission of the Council of Ministers, alien nonresidents may acquire in Cyprus immov- able property for use as a residence or holiday home; they are required to pay the value of such property in foreign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are transferable abroad up to the amount originally paid for the purchase of the prop- erty; the balance, if any, is transferable at the yearly rate of £C 5,000, plus interest. The same treatment is accorded to nonresident Cypriots purchasing a holiday home in Cyprus. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign na- tionals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may immediately transfer abroad up to £C 10,000; any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account and released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and from the sale of real estate, other than that referred to in the preceding paragraph, is limited to £C 5,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account and also released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. Interest earned on a Blocked Account is freely transferable abroad. Transactions in foreign securities owned by resi- dents require prior permission from the Central Bank. In principle, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The exportation of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement February 1. Forward exchange market operations were liberalized. Authorized dealers (banks) were allowed to trade in the forward market with each other, their clients, foreign correspondents, and off- shore banks at freely negotiated rates. For U.S. dol- lars and pounds sterling, the Central Bank would continue to quote its own forward rates, which might vary in line with spot rates. Forward rates applied by authorized dealers to their clients for these two currencies may not differ by more than the premiums or discounts that are applied by the Central Bank for cover for a similar period. Autho- rized dealers were entitled to charge their clients a commission plus expenses related to these transac- tions. For currencies other than U.S. dollars and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 CYPRUS pounds sterling, authorized dealers would apply the cross rates against the U.S. dollar. Authorized dealers would be allowed to purchase cover from the Central Bank at prevailing rates against transactions with their clients, individually or collectively, or to engage in other operations within the prescribed limits. They would also be allowed to conduct forward operations between two foreign currencies, for cover in one of the two cur- rencies, on account of their customers. The forward cover facility that had been hitherto provided for trade transactions and for tourism receipts was ex- tended to other transactions conducted by resi- dents, such as approved foreign loans, for up to 12 months. February 1. The spot exchange market operations were liberalized. The Central Bank would continue to quote spot rates for four major currencies (deut- sche mark, Greek drachma, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars) but they could be subject to change. Subject to certain limitations, including a limit on spreads between buying and selling rates, autho- rized dealers would henceforth be free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. Payments for Invisibles April 17. The use of credit cards for business travel was liberalized. In addition to settlements of hotel, restaurant, and transportation expenses, credit cards may be used to obtain from an authorized dealer up to £C 100 a trip for car rentals and up to £C 300 a trip for any other purpose. Credit cards may also be used for payments of up to £C 300 for mail orders of books or other items by enterprises. September 24. The maximum allowances for sub- sistence purposes granted to residents studying abroad were increased, as follows: Western Euro- pean countries (excluding Greece), to £C 4,000; Greece, to £C 2,500; and Eastern European and Middle Eastern countries, to £C 2,200. November 1. The maximum ceiling of foreign ex- change for tourist travel was lifted, and the follow- ing new arrangements were introduced: (1) autho- rized dealers were allowed, without any reference to the Central Bank, to issue foreign exchange up to £C 750 a person a trip; and (2) the Central Bank would approve applications for allocations of addi- tional foreign exchange without limit to cover gen- uine travel expenses for tourism purposes. Capital February 1. Authorized dealers were allowed to extend credit facilities in foreign currency, up to a total of 30 percent of their deposit liabilities in for- eign currency, to Cypriot exporters in the form of short-term trade financing to industries in the In- dustrial Free Zone, to oil companies, and to Cyprus Airways. Also, a credit of up to 5 percentage points of the 30 percent limit may be extended to offshore companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC1 (Position on January 1, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Czechoslovakia is the Koruna (100 hallers = 1 koruna). The exchange rate of the koruna is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of the convertible currencies that have the greatest share in the external transactions of Czechoslovakia, namely, those of Austria, Ger- many, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States; the weights for these currencies are adjusted annually. On January 15,1991, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Kcs 27.81 and Kcs 28.37, respectively, per US$1. The State Bank of Czechoslovakia quotes exchange rates daily for 21 convertible currencies2 and for the European Currency Unit (ECU) and the SDR. The buying and selling rates for these currencies are based on their cross rates in relation to the U.S. dollar in interna- tional markets. The spread between the buying and selling rates quoted by commercial banks for com- mercial transactions is subject to a maximum limit of 2 percent, except for bank notes, which may have larger spreads (normally 3-5 percent). There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls and regulations are stipulated in the revised Foreign Exchange Law, which came into effect on January 1,1991. This law introduced a system of internal convertibility of the Czechoslovak currency. Annual foreign exchange plans, under which foreign exchange was centrally allocated, have been abolished, and restrictions on payments and transfers related to current account transactions by enterprises have been eliminated. Commercial banks are authorized to effect pay- ments that have been properly documented. A par- tial export proceeds retention scheme, which was introduced in early 1989 as a transitional measure, has been abolished, and resident enterprises (not 1The Czech and Slovak Federal Republic became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 20, 1990. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. individuals) are required to fully repatriate export proceeds and convert them into Czechoslovak cur- rency. The State Bank is responsible for carrying out exchange controls and regulations in coordination with the federal and republic ministries of finance. In general, the Federal Ministry of Finance has au- thority over governmental credits and over budget- ary and subsidized organizations, civic associa- tions, churches, foundations, and other juridical persons that fall within federal jurisdiction and are not engaged in entrepreneurial activities. The re- public ministries of finance have authority over bud- getary and subsidized organizations, civic associa- tions operating within the jurisdiction of the respective republics, churches, foundations, and other juridical persons that fall within the jurisdic- tion of the respective republics and are not engaged in entrepreneurial activities, as well as over natural persons resident in the territory of the respective republics. The State Bank has authority over the activities of all registered enterprises and entrepreneurs. Special approval is required only for joint ven- tures in which at least one of the equity participants is a state-owned enterprise and in the banking field; approval is granted by the Federal Ministry of Fi- nance for direct investments or by the State Bank for banking transactions. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic noti- fied the IMF, on November 19, 1990, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from countries with which Czechoslovakia has multilateral and bilateral agreements may be effected in the currencies stipu- lated or in accordance with the procedures as set forth in these agreements. At the end of 1990, Czechoslovakia had bilateral payments agreements with Afghanistan, Albania, Bangladesh, the Peo- ple's Republic of China, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic, Pakistan, and Yugoslavia, and a 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 CZECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC multilateral agreement within the framework of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) trade agreement. Since January 1, 1991, most of these bilateral agreements have been abolished, and they are still in operation only with Afghanistan, Albania, India, and the Islamic Re- public of Iran; the multilateral CMEA agreement has been terminated. In cases where specific agree- ments do not exist or trade takes place outside the framework of the agreements, settlements are effected in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Czechoslovak resident individuals (including un- registered entrepreneurs) may open interest- bearing foreign exchange accounts at any resident commercial bank without revealing the source of foreign exchange. Balances on these accounts may be used by the account holder without any restric- tion. Resident enterprises that had outstanding for- eign exchange accounts on December 31,1990 have been allowed to maintain such accounts; new for- eign exchange accounts, however, may be opened by enterprises after December 31, 1990 only with a prior permit which exempts enterprises from the 100 percent surrender requirement. Balances on these accounts may be freely used to finance enter- prises' activities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents (natural and juridical persons) may maintain two types of interest-bearing account in Czechoslovakia: (1) Domestic Currency Accounts may be opened with Czechoslovak banks in Czechoslovak currency. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make payments in Czechoslovakia. All payments abroad from these accounts, except transfers relat- ing to inheritance and alimony, require a permit from the State Bank. (2) Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened by nonresidents. Foreign exchange may be deposited freely in these accounts, and payments may be made from these accounts, in Czechoslovakia or abroad, without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or private entrepreneur. Im- port licenses are required for a few strategic items, namely, crude oil, natural gas, firearms and am- munition, and narcotics. A temporary 20 percent import surcharge has been imposed on most con- sumer goods.3 All commercial imports are subject to an ad valorem import tariff, ranging from zero to 35 percent. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the Gener- alized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, 42 developing countries benefit from a duty exemp- tion, and 80 others are granted a 75 percent reduc- tion from the applicable customs duties. Imports of tropical products are exempted from 85 percent of applicable customs duties. A resident individual is required to repatriate foreign exchange acquired abroad, and is required to sell to a bank or deposit in a private foreign exchange account foreign exchange (including gold, with the exception of gold coins) exceeding the equivalent of Kcs 5,000; he may freely withdraw funds from this account. Resident enterprises are required to repatriate, within 90 days, foreign ex- change receipts from exports and surrender them; with permission, they may maintain foreign ex- change receipts in foreign exchange accounts and may freely use funds on these accounts to finance enterprises' activities. A limited number of products require export li- censes for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants); to facilitate voluntary re- straints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products); or to preserve for the internal mar- ket finite natural resources or imported raw mate- rials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and con- struction materials). For the two latter groups of products, either quantitative or value limits are in force. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Czechoslovak resident individuals may withdraw an unlimited amount of foreign exchange from their foreign currency accounts to make invisible pay- ments. They may also use, without limitation, the equivalent of Kcs 5,000 in foreign exchange receipts, which they are allowed to keep (see section on Im- ports and Exports, above). In addition, residents are entitled to buy foreign exchange for traveling abroad, up to a maximum amount specified by the State Bank (currently, the equivalent of Kcs 2,000 a year).4 3The rate of surcharge was reduced to 18 percent on May 1, 1991 and to 15 percent on June 1, 1991. 4This limit was increased to Kcs 5,000 on April 1, 1991. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC 135 Official travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organizations is subject to different al- lowances, depending on the country of destination. Transfers of alimony may be made to a country with which a reciprocal agreement has been concluded. In case a resident individual does not have sufficient foreign exchange, a special permit is required in most instances for remittances relating to family maintenance, education, and medical treatment. Obligatory conversion of a minimum amount of for- eign exchange for tourists was abolished on Jan- uary 1, 1991. Repatriation of wage savings by nonresident workers is subject to permission from the State Bank. With certain exceptions related to tourism, exports and imports of Czechoslovak currency notes and their transfer abroad are permitted only with a foreign exchange license issued by the State Bank. Licenses are not required for the importation of foreign exchange assets or the exportation of for- eign currencies or their transfer abroad by nonresidents. Capital Registered enterprises may freely obtain sup- pliers' credits and credits not related to trade abroad, although they are required to register such borrowings with the State Bank. They may extend trade credits, but require a special permit from the State Bank in instances where a country is considered to be high risk. Portfolio invest- ments abroad are subject to the approval of the State Bank; approval is normally granted if such investments are considered to facilitate Czecho- slovak exports. The Foreign Exchange Act5 regulates foreign ex- change transactions of joint ventures and enter- prises with 100 percent foreign ownership. There is no limit on equity participation by nonresidents. Credits may be obtained from foreign banks with the approval of the State Bank. Foreign exchange equity participation of foreign investors can be de- posited in a foreign exchange account with a resi- dent commercial bank. Foreign investors may freely transfer abroad their dividends, profits, capital gains, and interest earnings. In accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act, they are allowed, in the event of liquidation of the enterprise, to repatriate freely the full value of their capital participation and capital gains in the original currency. Transfers of inherited assets abroad are allowed to all countries on a reciprocal basis. Gold Residents are required to sell gold (with the ex- ception of gold coins) to financial institutions deal- ing in foreign exchange within 30 days of acquisi- tion. Without a foreign exchange license, nonresi- dents may export inherited gold coins, provided that they submit a certificate confirming that the coins are of no historical value, and they may export gold that they have imported into the country. To export any other gold, nonresidents must have a foreign exchange license. 5Bilateral agreements have been concluded with Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom; they guarantee investors from these countries more favorable treatment than that provided for in this Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Denmark participates with Belgium, France, Ger- many, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the ex- change rate mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per- cent (in the case of the pound sterling and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in Euro- pean Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Danmarks Na- tionalbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other countries participat- ing in the EMS in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1990, these rates were as follows: c .r. j T . .. Spprifipd Tn tprvpn t inn Rates per: Danish Kroner Upper Limit Lower Limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1 Pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas 18.9143 390.16 116.32 10.4511 5.214 346.24 11.9479 6.231 18.0831 373.00 111.20 9.9913 4.985 331.02 10.5976 5.526 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. Danmarks Nationalbank, however, does in- tervene in other situations for the purpose of smoothing out fluctuations in exchange rates. This smoothing out takes place only with respect to movements of the EMS currencies, that is, predomi- nantly the deutsche mark. Interventions may tech- nically be executed in any currency included in the official fixing of exchange rates, and the U.S. dollar is often used as the intervention currency. Dan- marks Nationalbank has an obligation to intervene on the Danish foreign exchange market only at the intervention rates agreed within the EMS. Middle rates (average of buying and selling rates) for 20 foreign currencies (including the ECU);1 are of- ficially fixed daily and reflect the going rates at the time of the fixing. On December 31, 1990, the official rates for the deutsche mark and the U.S. dollar were DKr 386.04 and DKr 577.60, respectively, per 100 units. All remaining foreign exchange regulations were lifted with effect from October 1, 1988. Residents may hold positions in foreign currencies without any limitations with respect to the amounts, curren- cies, or instruments involved. Foreign exchange dealers (banks) must, however, keep their net for- eign exchange position (spot plus forward) against the Danish krone within a range equal to ± 10 per- cent of their capital. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealing. The Executive Order on Foreign Exchange Regulations, issued by the Ministry of Industry with effect from October 1, 1988, contains rules concerning payments between residents and non- residents, which —for statistical purposes —must be reported to Danmarks Nationalbank when pay- ments exceed DKr 60,000. Residents (with certain exceptions) must deposit foreign securities and Danish bonds issued abroad either with a Danish or a foreign bank or with the issuer. Residents who are holding accounts with foreign banking institutions, have deposited se- curities abroad, or have entered into contracts with foreign life insurance companies are required to provide the Danish tax authorities with relevant information concerning these transactions. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. The Faeroe Is- lands are still subject to the regulations in force before October 1, 1988. Administration of Control No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 137 residents. Exchange control rules on reporting re- quirements for statistical purposes, on depositing of foreign securities, and on holding of accounts abroad for tax purposes are administered by the Danmarks Nationalbank and foreign exchange dealers. Foreign exchange dealers are commercial banks, savings banks, and stockbrokerage com- panies or other financial institutes, as defined in the Executive Order, provided that they settle payments between residents and nonresidents on a commer- cial basis through accounts held in or on behalf of foreign banking institutions (correspondent banks). Danmarks Nationalbank has drawn up a list of for- eign exchange dealers. Licenses for imports and exports, where re- quired, are issued by the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Denmark notified the Fund on Septem- ber 10,1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for cur- rent international transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most products, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common European Community (EC) system of export-import licenses has now been established for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non- state-trading, non-EC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or pur- chased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Re- public of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for certain items subject to strategic con- trols, licenses for exports are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals. Nearly all exports of goods and services to South Africa are prohibited. No exchange control requirements are imposed on receipts from exports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. The general rules on exchange control issued by the Ministry of Industry are based on EC directives on capital movements and the Or- ganization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- ment Capital Code; no distinction is made in these rules between residents of member countries of the EC and those of the rest of the world. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad in connection with direct investments or with private acquisitions of real estate abroad. Private acquisition of real estate for noncommercial purposes and expenses related to building and construction work on such proper ty can be made without limitations. Exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to nonresidents for the financing of pay- ments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services. Inward direct investment in the form of equity capital may be made without prior license. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special li- cense. Nonresidents may freely purchase or sub- scribe to all types of Danish shares, including shares of joint stock and private companies; they may also acquire private mortgage deeds. Residents may take up loans from nonresidents to finance imports of goods and services; they may also take up such loans to finance the granting of credits for exports of commodities and services. Business enterprises may borrow abroad without permission. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents are permitted freely, irrespective of the manner in which the original investment was acquired. Inter- est and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid without restriction. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may be trans- ferred to any country without limitation. Gift remit- tances to other persons may also be made without limitation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 DENMARK Imports and exports of securities are permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold freely to residents. For- eign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in bars or coins in Denmark; they may also import gold in bars or coins. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 22 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at the rate of 22 percent. There is no customs duty on imports of gold in bars or coins. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement August 10. Following the decision of the United Kingdom to join the Exchange Rate Mechanism of the European Monetary System, the compulsory intervention limits between the Danish krone and the pound sterling were established as follows: buying rate, DKr 10.5976 per pound sterling; and selling rate, DKr 11.9479 per pound sterling. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is freely convertible into U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of DF 177.721 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for other curren- cies are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 0.5-3.0 percent set by the commercial banks, de- pending on the currency concerned. There is a fixed commission of about DF 1,000 (or US$6.00) for transfers in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial enterprises are free to negotiate for- ward exchange contracts in respect of commercial and financial transactions through local banks or banks abroad. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On September 19, 1980, Djibouti formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Djibouti franc is issued in notes and coins by the National Bank of Djibouti, which issues and redeems the currency against U.S. dollars. Deposits in U.S. dollars con- stitute the cover for the notes issued. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency requirements are in force. Djibouti, but the territory as a whole does not con- stitute a free zone. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consumption tax, at the rate of 30 percent for luxury goods and 20 per- cent for all other goods. Certain commodities, in- cluding alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated min- eral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax at various rates. Additional taxes are levied on imported milk products and fruit juice. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, there are virtually no restrictions. Ex- port proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. A tax of 20 percent applies to fees and sal- aries paid to individuals and legal entities who are not permanent residents of Djibouti for professional purposes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Under the Investment Code of February 13, 1984, enterprises established or expanded to undertake certain spe- cific economic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Carib- bean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Carib- bean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to commercial banks certain of its powers to approve sales of foreign currencies within specified limits. The Ministry of Trade administers import and ex- port arrangements and controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories par- ticipating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR- ICOM)2 must be made in the currency of the CAR- ICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries must be made in the foreign currency that is legal tender in the country where the settlement is being made.3 Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign Currency Accounts may be operated only with the permission of the Ministry of Finance; such irThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lu- cia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resident in Do- minica. The accounts can only be credited with for- eign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Pay- ments from these accounts do not require approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and all imports originating from the member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, Albania, the People's Republic of China, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, and Democratic Kampuchea require a license. All other goods ex- cept those on the negative list may be imported without a license. Goods on the negative list may, however, be imported from the member countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)4 and CARICOM without a license. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a commercial bank of docu- mentary evidence of purchase. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval. However, commercial banks have been delegated authority to sell foreign currency to local residents, as specified below: (1) for incidentals, EC$100, subject to a limit of EC$500 a person a year; (2) for each trip outside the area served by the ECCB, EC$3,000, subject to a maximum of two trips in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents; (3) for bona fide business trav- elers, EC$1,000 for each day outside Dominica, pro- vided the total does not exceed EC$30,000 in any 12- month period and upon presentation of travel docu- ments; (4) for overseas travel for medical treatment, EC$1,000 a day up to a maximum of EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, subject to the presentation of a medical certificate stating that the journey is nec- essary and upon presentation of travel documents; (5) for educational expenses, including accommo- dation, up to EC$15,000 a student in each academic year; and (6) for dependents residing abroad, 4The OECS countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and the British Virgin Islands (associate member). 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 141 EC$2,400 in any 12-month period (EC$3,600 for minor or incapacitated dependents). Amounts in excess of specified limits may be ob- tained with approval from the Ministry of Finance. Specific approval of the Ministry of Finance may also be obtained for outward remittances of cash gifts up to EC$1,000 a year to each recipient. Earn- ings of foreign workers and profits/dividends from foreign direct investment may be remitted after set- tlement of all tax or other public liabilities. The exportation of East Caribbean bank notes and coins (other than numismatic coins) by residents and nonresidents traveling to destinations outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts prescribed by the central bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is manda- tory, except when the exporter has a foreign cur- rency account into which the proceeds may be paid. Exports of bananas are subject to a levy when the export price exceeds a minimum level. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a foreign currency account. There is no restriction on the importation of foreign bank notes and coins. dents of foreign currency securities and of real es- tate located abroad is not normally permitted. Capi- tal transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted, sub- ject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the ECCB area may transfer up to EC$30,000 from their assets for each family, subject to income tax clearance. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the invest- ment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quan- tities of gold may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, for industrial purposes only- Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments May 1. Imports from the member countries of CARICOM of some 18 products items on the negative list were no longer subject to a license. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval. The purchase by resi- Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. A levy on exports of bananas was imposed (this levy was suspended in September 1990). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, atRD$11.50 = US$1. The Central Bank administers all foreign exchange transactions; all exchange receipts must be surren- dered, and most payments require the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank. Only foreign exchange purchases by private individuals for specified cur- rent invisibles up to US$5,000 for each transaction and up to a limit of US$10,000 a year do not require prior approval. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar were RD$11.20 and RD$11.50, respec- tively, per US$1. A parallel foreign exchange market exists. On December 31, 1990, the difference be- tween the official exchange rate and the parallel exchange rate was about 15 percent.1 A commission equivalent to 15 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports is collected by the Customs Office, and the proceeds are deposited in the Cen- tral Bank for the servicing of external debt.2 Other exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank and other banks carry a commission of a/32 of 1 percent. Commercial banks charge their customers commissions of lk of 1 percent (buying) and l/2 of 1 percent (selling); an additional commis- sion of 1 percent is levied on payments by letter of credit. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and is administered by the Central Bank. A commission, composed of representatives of the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and the Office of the President, determines priorities for the servicing of public sector external debt. Com- mercial banks transact in foreign exchange under central bank supervision and at exchange rates set lln late January 1991, a new exchange rate system was intro- duced, under which a fixed official rate was applied to exports and essential imports and a freely floating rate determined in an interbank market was applied to all other transactions. The ex- change rate system was unified on July 1, 1991. 2Imports of food, fertilizer, petroleum, medicine, and agri- cultural products are exempt from this commission. by the Central Bank. Payments abroad are subject to documentation and limited to transactions via com- mercial banks. At the end of 1990, there were 20 commercial banks (including the state-owned Re- serve Bank) operating in the foreign exchange mar- ket in the Dominican Republic. The commercial banks may open foreign exchange facilities, except where the Banco de Reserva is authorized as the sole dealer. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Settle- ments with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Co- lombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through special ac- counts established under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Import payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through letters of credit. Otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other resi- dents regarding the currency to be used for pay- ments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are effected at the official exchange rate determined by the Central Bank. In Octo- ber 1989, the commercial banks were allowed, on a temporary basis, to obtain foreign exchange outside the official system to cover payments for imports that had previously been authorized by the Central Bank. This authority was suspended in April 1990. Import settlements against collection or by draft must be denominated in U.S. dollars. Imported merchandise requires a central bank certification of the use of foreign currency for customs clearance. A written order from the Office of the President of the Republic is required to import any goods that are not covered by a written authorization from the Central Bank, except for a few items purchased by hotels for their exclusive use. Most imports are sub- ject to an exchange commission equivalent to 15 per- cent of the f.o.b. value. In principle, import duty rates range from a mini- mum of 40 percent to nearly 900 percent for malted 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 143 beverages. Most of the duty rates at the three- and four-digit level of the tariff schedule range from 40 percent to 75 percent. Certain medicines and medical products are exempt from import duties. An internal consumption tax, ranging from 15 per- cent to 90 percent, and a 4 percent surcharge on the total value of imports, inclusive of all customs charges, are applied to imports that are subject to the minimum duty of 20 percent; exempt from the tax and the surcharge are agricultural and industrial machinery, and inputs for the manufacture of agrochemical products, which are subject to a 5 per- cent duty. In September 1990, the Government es- tablished a provisional tariff system, under which most rates range from 15 percent to 30 percent; the rates on jewelry, firearms, and certain motor vehi- cles range from 60 percent to 80 percent. The inter- nal consumption tax now ranges from 15 percent to 90 percent. Payments for Invisibles All categories of invisible payments, with the ex- ception of profit remittances and royalty payments, may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documentation requirements. Annual profit remittances cannot exceed the equivalent of 25 percent of the net value of original and additional investment plus reinvestment minus repatriation, duly registered in the Foreign Department of the Central Bank. Nonresident tourists who surrender foreign ex- change to commercial banks upon arrival may re- convert up to 30 percent of the total amount surren- dered (maximum of up to the equivalent of US$5,000) upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are temporarily prohibited, in- cluding some food products and animal species, unprocessed wood (for environmental protection purposes), and blood (for public health reasons). In addition, products imported under specified bilat- eral trade agreements are prohibited from being exported under the terms of such agreements. A number of products (such as sugar, molasses, cof- fee, and cocoa) are subject to prior authorization. Export licenses, issued by the Dominican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX), are required for all products. With specified exceptions, exporters must, within two working days of receiving payments, surrender to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, foreign exchange equal to 100 percent of the value of their exports. For the purposes of exchange sur- render, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices established by CEDOPEX for certain exports. Firms operating in industrial free zones and deal- ing in ferro-nickel exports are exempt from the ex- change surrender requirements and are required to convert only the foreign exchange needed by them to cover local costs and taxes. Excess proceeds from coffee exports are subject to a graduated tax at a maximum rate of 40 percent when the export pro- ceeds calculated at the exchange rate in force at the time of sales registration with the Coffee Depart- ment of the Secretariat of State for Agriculture ex- ceed RD$400 per 100 pounds. Law No. 69 provides for the issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario —CATs) for a value not exceeding 15 percent of the f .o.b. or c .i .f. value of exports; the percentage can be up to 25 per- cent when exports contain a high degree of domes- tic agricultural inputs. The CATs are, in principle, fully negotiable and can be used for the payment of taxes or other obligations to the Government. How- ever, only a limited number of CATs have been issued. Law No. 69 also regulates the system of temporary admission for imports, under which du- ties are waived for any imports used in the manufac- ture of nontraditional products to be exported within a year. Nontraditional exports are entitled to a refund of a percentage of the import duties paid on raw mate- rials or component parts used in the manufacture of goods subsequently exported; the refund is 90 per- cent on exports containing only imported inputs, 95 percent on exports containing domestic inputs, and 100 percent on exports produced in the indus- trial free trade zone.3 Exporters are also eligible for a refund of 95 percent of any internal tax levied on locally manufactured goods that are exported. Ex- porters may not extend credit to foreign buyers for more than 90 days from the date of shipment with- out authorization from the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from all invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. Proceeds originating in transactions with foreigners using international credit cards are also subject to the same surrender requirements as those applicable to exports. The import of Dominican bank notes and coins is prohibited. 3Nontraditional exporters, who qualify under the temporary import regime of Law No. 69, are also fully exempted from payment of import duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. How- ever, direct foreign investment is regulated by Law No. 861 of July 19,1978, which created a Directorate of Foreign Investment to approve direct investment requests. Such investments must be registered with the Central Bank. Outward remittances related to investments require the approval of the Central Bank. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government, subject to congressional au- thorization. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities require Monetary Board authorization. According to a set of criteria established by the Monetary Board on November 19, 1981, priority in the approval of new loans is given to foreign borrowing for export, im- port substitution, and social projects such as hous- ing and education. Total financial charges on for- eign loans are not allowed to exceed the principal international interest rate by more than 3 percent. There are also minimum maturity requirements ac- cording to the type of financing. Since January 23,1985, the Central Bank has pro- vided foreign exchange for the servicing of public external debt at the market rate; the servicing of private external debt is effected through the market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement DOMINICAN REPUBLIC rendered to them to make import payments autho- rized by the Central Bank, was suspended. May 3. Commercial banks were authorized to purchase foreign exchange from the public and sur- render it to the Central Bank. August 7. The official exchange rate was adjusted to RD$10.20 (buying) and RD$10.50 (selling) per US$1. The foreign exchange system previously es- tablished in August 1988 (Sistema de Reintegro de Divisas) was reintroduced. Under this system, the Central Bank would administer all foreign exchange transactions, all receipts would be subject to sur- render, and most payments would require prior ap- proval from the Central Bank. October 4. The official exchange rate was adjusted to RD$11.20 (buying) and RD$11.50 (selling) per US$1. Administration of Control August 15. Regulations governing dealings in for- eign exchange by tourism agencies residing in the Dominican Republic were introduced. November 5. The policy governing remittances of foreign exchange abroad was modified, whereby remittances were permitted to be made only through the commercial banks in the Dominican Republic. Imports and Import Payments March 19. The importation of essential and pat- ented medicines and medical products was ex- empted from all import duties. September 1. A tariff reform establishing a single c . i .f. ad valorem tax for all products included in the Temporary Customs Tariff was implemented. Payments for Invisibles June 15. All travelers arriving in the Dominican Republic were required to convert the equivalent of US$100 into domestic currency. July 13. The requirement that all travelers arriving in the Dominican Republic must convert the equiv- alent of US$100 into domestic currency was suspended. April 9. The official exchange rate was adjusted to RD$7.30 (buying) and RD$7.60 (selling) per US$1. Authorization, which was granted in October 1989 to commercial banks to use foreign exchange sur- Exports and Export Proceeds August 30. The system of surrender of foreign exchange to the Central Bank by the exporters of goods and services was modified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. At present, there are three exchange rates: the offi- cial rate of SI. 390 per US$1, which is used for the accounting purposes of the Central Bank of Ecuador only; the intervention market rate of the Central Bank; and the free market rate. As of August 31, 1988, all foreign trade transactions of the private sector, as well as some other private sector foreign exchange transactions (mainly those of the national press and of eligible students abroad) take place on the intervention market of the Central Bank. This market has a single rate but operationally has two segments—one for the public sector (where all pub- lic sector transactions take place) and the other for the private sector (where a foreign exchange alloca- tion system governs private sector transactions). Pri- vate sector transactions that do not take place in the intervention market take place in the free market. The intervention rate of the Central Bank is adjusted weekly, on the basis of a preannounced peg rate (a weekly depreciation of SI. 3.00 during May 15,1989- March 5, 1990, and since March 6, 1990, SI. 3.50, against the U.S. dollar); the selling rate is set at 2 percent above the buying rate. On December 31, 1990, the exchange rate (averages of buying and selling rates) was SI. 878.20 per US$1 in the inter- vention market of the Central Bank, and SI. 890.90 per US$1 in the free market. In the public sector segment of the intervention market, the Central Bank is authorized to purchase the foreign exchange proceeds relating to the fol- lowing transactions: the f .o .b. value of all public sector exports; all public sector income in foreign currency, including foreign loan disbursements; foreign exchange balances on public sector deposits in foreign currency at the Central Bank (when con- sidered in excess of the normal requirements of each entity); and all other transactions of the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to sell foreign exchange relating to payments of the following op- erations in the public sector segment of the inter- vention market: the c. & f. value of public sector imports; purchases of services abroad by the public sector; interest payments and principal amortiza- tion in foreign currency of the public sector; transfer of surpluses of foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador; and all other transactions of the Central Bank. In the intervention market for the private sector, the Central Bank is authorized to buy 100 percent of the f .o .b. value of all private sector export proceeds and 100 percent of the proceeds from credits granted by multilateral agencies and foreign gov- ernments to the private sector previously autho- rized by the Monetary Board. The Central Bank determines twice a week the maximum amount of foreign exchange available (the limit of 90 percent of export proceeds from the private sector was raised to 100 percent in December 1989). It sells this amount for the payment of the c. and f. value of private sector imports; for the foreign exchange re- quired by the national press and by students abroad who have obtained financing from the Ecuadoran Institute for Education Loans; and for the servicing of loans granted by multilateral agencies, and gov- ernments or their agencies to Ecuadoran financial institutions to finance private investment projects. Requests for foreign exchange have to be submitted to the Committee for Foreign Exchange Sales (Com- ite de Venta de Divisas) through authorized banks, financial companies, or professional organizations (Fedemciones Nacionales de Camaras), none of which can submit requests for more than 20 percent of the total amount offered at each biweekly session. Re- quests for foreign exchange for import payments can be presented only on the basis of import permits granted at least 60 days before the session. Requests are satisfied according to the chronological order of the date of issuance of the import permits. The amount of foreign exchange received by each par- ticipating institution is determined on a pro rata basis, given by the ratio of the total amount offered to the total amount requested multiplied by the amount requested by the institution in question. The Central Bank is authorized to purchase foreign exchange in anticipation of fu tu re exports, within a maximum period of 150 days, with exception made for exports of coffee grain, shrimp, fish in natural form, and fish products, which can be exported within a maximum period of 210 days. Under transitional arrangements, the Central Bank is obliged to provide foreign exchange at the intervention market rate for the following pay- ments: imports for which permits were granted up to August 11, 1986; the redemption of foreign cur- rency stabilization bonds; the servicing of the pri- vate sector external debt for which the foreign ex- change was sold to the Central Bank up to 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 ECUADOR August 11, 1986; profit remittances and capital re- patriation generated by foreign investments for which the foreign currency was sold to the Central Bank up to August 11,1986; and expenses incurred abroad by students and handicapped persons for which a contract was approved by the Central Bank up to August 11, 1986. To meet obligations arising from import permits granted up to August 11,1986, the Central Bank is authorized to issue foreign cur- rency stabilization bonds, provided the counter- value in sucres has been deposited with the Central Bank and all the requirements for payment abroad have been fulfilled. The maturity of the bonds runs from the date of issue. The Central Bank issued four stabilization bonds, each amounting to 25 percent of its obligation, with maturities every six months. The bonds carry an interest rate equal to the three- month LIBOR (or equivalent rate in non-U.S. dollar currencies). The final deadline for submitting ap- plications for foreign currency stabilization bonds was extended in October 1989 to January 17, 1990. Most borrowings abroad by the private sector are subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, with effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Hungary, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. take place through bilateral accounts. Pay- ments between Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Inte- gration Association (LAIA). Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two catego- ries: List I, consisting of priority goods ("Special" Group); essential goods (Group A, consisting of capital goods, inputs for agriculture and industry, and consumer goods with no local substitutes); and semi-essential goods (Group B, consisting of prod- ucts with some local equivalent, except luxury goods); and List II, consisting of luxury goods. All goods not included on these two lists are pro- hibited. Mainly for reasons of industrial protection, certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies. As of Au- gust 30, 1988, imports of motor vehicles remain prohibited, while the prohibition on imports of heavy vehicles has been lifted. A prior import deposit scheme, in effect since October 1987, was abolished with effect from July 6, 1990. Before this abolition, the scheme required both private and public sector importers to lodge at the Central Bank a non-interest-bearing 120-day de- posit in domestic currency. With specified exceptions, prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports. Books, news- papers, periodicals, and printed music may be im- ported with or without prior import licenses. Medi- cines and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$1,500 f .o .b. or less, but all applicable charges and taxes must be paid on them. In addition, the State Petro- leum Corporation (Petroecuador) may import sup- plies, materials, and equipment necessary for the conduct of its business during emergencies without obtaining a prior import license. With specified ex- ceptions, requests for import licenses for goods in- cluded under List I have to be accompanied by a foreign exchange guarantee from an authorized bank or financial company for the c. & f. value of the imported goods. Import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of goods, provided that 80 percent of the import taxes (including import surcharges) has been paid, prior ministerial authori- zation (where applicable) has been obtained, and a certificate has been submitted showing that insur- ance has been arranged in Ecuador. Upon arrival of the merchandise, the importer must settle the re- maining 20 percent of total import taxes (including import surcharges). All private sector imports are subject to a tax of 10 percent levied on commercial transactions. Fur- thermore, all public and private sector imports are subject to a service charge of 1 percent of the c. & f. value. There is a temporary duty-free import scheme for inputs used in export production. Under an export-processing zone arrangement known as "Maquila," eligible enterprises are allowed to ad- minister certain special labor contract and wage policies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 147 Payments for Invisibles All public sector payments for invisibles, includ- ing interest on public debt, are transacted in the intervention market of the Central Bank. Other pay- ments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no lim- itations on the amounts of domestic and foreign bank notes that travelers may take out. The arrange- ment for the refinancing of private external debt involves different implicit exchange rates arising from the imposition of charges on the official rate to compensate for possible exchange losses. These rates apply to the refinancing of private external credits contracted or endorsed by the domestic fi- nancial system or directly by the private sector. They also apply to the payment of interest on loan proceeds sold to the Central Bank before refinanc- ing or sold in the same way at any time under Resolution No. 1202, or those sold at the free market beginning from July 1, 1982, up to a day before short- or long-term financing. With respect to for- eign loans to petroleum companies, interest, com- missions, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 percentage points above the interest rates in the creditor country. Residents and nonresidents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of US$25 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 per- cent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee and may be provisional (with a validity of 30 days) or definitive (with a validity of 90 days). There is a list of prohibited exports and a list of exports subject to quota ("ex- portable surplus"), reviewed quarterly by the com- petent ministries. All goods not on these lists are freely exportable. All export proceeds must be sur- rendered in the intervention market of the Central Bank not later than: (1) 15 days from the date of shipment for exports against cash payment, and exports of bananas; (2) 45 days from the date of shipment for coffee beans, cocoa beans, shrimp in any marketable form, and other unprocessed sea- food products, provided that the sale was made on an installment basis or on consignment; (3) 60 days from the date of shipment for other primary prod- ucts, provided that the sale was made on an install- ment basis; and (4) 150 days from the date of ship- ment for products not covered in (l)-(3) above, provided that the sale was made on an installment basis. Nonobservance of the above surrender re- quirements is subject to penalty, and the Central Bank is authorized to carry out the inspections it considers necessary to verify the proper surrender of export proceeds. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports effected under authorized barter transactions. However, barter transactions re- quire the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries; they must be registered with the Central Bank and are subject to specific limitations. Minimum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished products of co- coa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fully surrendered. Payment of foreign exchange for pe- troleum exports will be made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sale contracts and must be sur- rendered within 20 days of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on foreign reserves of the Central Bank and all invisible re- ceipts of the public sector, which are transacted in the intervention market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market, except capital in the petro- leum sector, which must be transacted through the intervention market. Most borrowings abroad by the private sector are subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent. With specified exceptions, new investment re- quires the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries. The Ministry does not authorize direct foreign in- vestment for the purpose of establishing advertis- ing firms, commercial broadcasting stations, televi- sion stations, newspapers, or magazines. All foreign direct investment in Ecuador must be regis- tered with the Central Bank. Repatriations of capital and remittances of profits on foreign investments are handled through the free exchange market in respect of those invest- ments that have been effected through this market. There are no time limits on the remittance of profits. The limit on the repatriation of profit remittances is 30 percent a year, or 40 percent for firms that export at least 40 percent of their production. Annual amortization may not exceed the sum of un- distributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 ECUADOR liquidated assets, and any variation in working capi- tal. There are no limits on repatriation of capital and profit for the tourism sector and for enterprises that export more than 80 percent of their production. All foreign loans granted to the Government or to official entities, or guaranteed by them, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign ex- change, are subject to prior approval by the Mone- tary Board. Suppliers' credits of up to one year's maturity are exempt from this requirement. The request for such authorization, to be submitted to the Minister of Finance and the Monetary Board, must be accompanied by detailed information of the loan contract and of the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the Monetary Board considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments in general, and on monetary policy in particular. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General De- velopment Plan or receive a favorable opinion of the National Council for Development (CONADE), and at least 20 percent of the total cost of the project must be covered by domestic funds. This require- ment does not apply to loans granted by interna- tional organizations or national development agen- cies. New external credits with a maturity of over one year contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be authorized and registered by the Central Bank of Ecuador. Gold The Central Bank of Ecuador is authorized to import and export gold, and buy and sell gold in the domestic market. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement March 5. The average rate in the intervention mar- ket of the Central Bank was devalued by 3.5 percent, and the weekly rate of depreciation against the U.S. dollar was increased from SI. 3.00 to S/. 3.50. The spread between buying and selling rates re- mained at 2 percent. March 9. The Central Bank would purchase 100 percent of foreign exchange derived from loans obtained by private sector agencies from multi- lateral institutions, development banks, and foreign governments and whose maturity exceeds four years. The Central Bank would also sell foreign exchange for the servicing of these debts. June 1. The Central Bank was authorized to issue checks or money orders for all foreign exchange sold to private sector importers, in favor of the banks or financial institutions involved. July 16. The average rate in the intervention mar- ket of the Central Bank was devalued by 4 percent in addition to the usual weekly S/. 3.50 adjustment. Imports and Import Payments January 18. Imports of caustic soda were subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries, and imports of sand, silica, and quartz were subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Mining and Energy. January 18. Importers were required to confirm the use of foreign exchange obtained for temporary imports of raw materials and inputs of production within 180 days. This requirement would also apply to importers who have effected imports under an import permit but have not presented bank guaran- tees or made prior deposits. January 19. When an importer has notified the Central Bank of the arrival of an import shipment within 60 days of the expiry of the relevant import permit, the Central Bank was authorized to supply foreign exchange at the rate of exchange in force at the time of the foreign exchange transaction. February 14. Public sector imports for which the terms of payment would involve a maturity of longer than one year were required to have prior authorization from the Central Bank. March 9. Imports of goods on List I(b) covering products originating in or proceeding from the An- dean Group (such as fish oil, clothing materials, and reflecting bricks) were exempted from the require- ment of prior authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries. June 12. Stage I of a tariff reform was put into effect. It involved: (1) a new tariff nomenclature, consistent with the Cartagena Agreement and the GATT; (2) a revision in the range of tariffs, from 0- 250 percent to 5-60 percent; (3) a reduction in the number of tariff levels to 12; and (4) the abolition of the 30 percent tariff surcharge on luxury items. July 6. Requests for foreign exchange for import payments for which permits were granted after July 9, 1990 were required to be made 60 days in advance of the foreign exchange sale. The prior import deposit scheme was abolished. November 15. The Central Bank would issue let- ters of credit for the public sector up to 100 percent of the value of imports (c . i . f .) that are financed with loans from multilateral institutions or guaranteed by deposits at the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 149 Exports and Export Proceeds January 18. The Central Bank was authorized to purchase forward up to 90 days foreign exchange proceeds from exports, before actual export ship- ment takes place, except for proceeds from exports of processed and grain coffee, shrimp, fish, fish- meal, and other marine products for which the for- ward period was set at 150 days. March 2. The Central Bank was authorized to pur- chase forward up to 90 days foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports, except for proceeds from fish and fishmeal, for which the maximum forward period was set at 150 days, and coffee and shrimp, for which the maximum forward period was set at 210 days. June 1. The Central Bank was authorized to pur- chase forward up to 90 days foreign exchange pro- ceeds from all exports, except for proceeds from fish, fishmeal, coffee, and shrimp, for which the maximum forward period was set at 210 days. August 3. A law establishing an export-processing zone, "Maquila," was enacted, under which certain exporting enterprises would be allowed to adminis- ter special labor contract and wage policies. September 18. The period of surrender require- ments for foreign exchange proceeds from exports was revised, as follows: (1) exports of coffee, cocoa beans, shrimp, and fish, to 45 days from 15 days; (2) exports of other perishable products, to 60 days from 30 days; and (3) exports of other goods, to 150 days from 90 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound; the U.S. dollar is used as the intervention currency. The exchange rate system consists of the central bank pool rate (of the Central Bank of Egypt), the com- mercial bank rate, and the rate outside banks.1 From 1979 until August 14, 1989, the buying and selling rates of the central bank pool were LE 0.700 and LE 0.707, respectively, per US$1, after which the Government began a process of unifying the central bank pool rate with the commercial bank rate. The quoted central bank buying and selling rates were thus adjusted respectively to LE 1.10 = US$1 and LE 1.11 - US$1 (see below). On July 1, 1990, the central bank pool exchange rate was ad- justed fur ther to LE 2.0 = US$1, and at the same time the Ministry of Finance changed its accounting exchange rate for budgetary purposes to LE 2.0 = US$1 from LE 0.7 - US$1. On December 31, 1990, the central bank pool buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LE 2.00 and LE 2.02, respec- tively, per US$1. The exchange rates for 16 other convertible currencies are based on the rates of these currencies against the U.S. dollar quoted in New York.2 A new commercial bank market was introduced on May 11, 1987, in which the 3 travel agencies and all 38 commercial banks authorized to carry out business in both foreign and domestic currencies were permitted to operate. The exchange rate in this market is set by a committee of eight members (four representatives of the public sector banks, two from the joint-venture banks, and two from the private sector banks). Two observers, one from the Central Bank of Egypt and one from the Ministry of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade, attend the committee meet- ings. The committee meets at the end of each busi- ness day to fix the commercial bank rate, which is binding for all transactions effected in the market the following business day. Cross rates are estab- 1For customs valuation purposes, a rate calculated monthly on the basis of the average bank market exchange rate for the pre- vious month is used. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. lished on the basis of the London exchange market rates. In setting the rates, the committee uses four indicators (supply, demand, working balances of the banks, and assessment of general market trends). The rate was initially set at LE 2.165 = US$1 on May 11, 1987. During 1990, the commer- cial bank rate f luc tua ted between LE 2.56 and LE 2.88 and, on December 31, 1990, it stood at LE 2.87 = US$1. The selling rate is set by the addition of lk of 1 percent to the buying rate set by the committee, with half of this d ifference (Vs of 1 percent) accruing to an account of the Ministry of Finance with the Central Bank. The authorized banks may buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves at the exchange ra te determined by the committee plus an additional 1/16 of 1 percent. The commercial bank market rate with a 12 per- cent discount applies to transfers by foreign avia- tion companies relating to operations transacted before March 15, 1988. Surpluses realized a f ter that date are t rans fe r red at the prevailing com- mercial bank ra te. The Central Bank has determined maximum op- erating balances in foreign exchange for each autho- rized commercial bank. Any excess over this amount must be sold twice a week to a special account in the name of the Central Bank at the rate set on the day the operation takes place plus 1/16 of 1 percent. The Central Bank has also set a limit on banks' net liabilities (equal to 6 percent of each bank's foreign currency deposits) on which it will cover any exchange loss resulting from a deprecia- tion of the rate. This percentage was raised to 10 percent in June 1990. The following transactions take place in the com- mercial bank market. On the receipts side: (1) workers' remittances; (2) tourism receipts; (3) bank purchases from all types of foreign ex- change accounts and of foreign bank notes or other means of payment; (4) commissions and bank in- terest receipts; (5) retained private sector export re- ceipts; (6) surrendered private sector receipts from all exports; (7) all public sector visible and invisible receipts except for cotton, petroleum, rice, and Suez Canal and Sumed Pipe Line dues; and (8) profits of Egyptian companies and banks. On the payments side: (1) public sector visible and invisible pay- ments within the limits established by the foreign exchange budget; (2) some private sector invisible 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 151 payments permitted under current regulations;3 (3) private sector imports, including those of Law No. 230 companies; and (4) settlements of letters of credit opened by the private sector before May 11, 1987, provided that documents are negotiated after this date. A number of special exchange rates are also in effect. At the end of December 1990, a rate of LE 0.70 = £1 applied to visible and invisible trade transac- tions within the framework of the bilateral pay- ments agreement with the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, and a rate of LE 3.0 = £1 applied to those visible trade transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. A rate of LE 1.30 = US$1 applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan. In addition, a rate of LE 0.3913 = US$1 is used for the liquidation of accounts related to past bilateral payments agreements. Private sector payments not authorized through the commercial bank market may be effected through free accounts held with domestic banks ("own exchange") at a rate agreed between the par- ties. These payments include some invisibles. Forward transactions are authorized for pur- chases and sales of foreign currencies through the central bank pool. Three percentage points are ap- plied to the spot buying and selling rates to deter- mine the corresponding forward rates. Forward transactions, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, may be conducted with respect to merchan- dise export and import transactions. 3Effective February 11,1988, the commercial banks have been authorized to use each month up to 10 percent of their available foreign exchange receipts to settle private debt-service obliga- tions due after this date. Priority is given to settlements of private debt obligations related to imports, and the Central Bank deter- mines the maximum foreign exchange allocations for each com- mercial bank. Subsequently, the commercial banks were allowed to use a portion of the resources of the new bank market for the settlement of private sector debt obligations in foreign currencies regardless of the date on which the debt became due. In addition, commercial banks were allowed to sell their foreign exchange earnings (accumulated net profits in foreign exchange) to their indebted private sector customers for the purpose of settlement of debts denominated in foreign exchange, at the prevailing new bank market rate. Beginning September 15, 1987, companies covered by Law No. 43 (joint ventures) have been permitted to remit profits abroad through the commercial bank market, pro- vided that they do not have their own foreign exchange in their capital and working accounts. Also, payments (visible and invis- ible) by public and private sector enterprises that have been authorized through the commercial bank market may not be effected through the market until the balance in their export retention accounts has been used up. Companies covered by Law No. 230 are permitted to remit profits abroad within the balances available in their working accounts, and they are allowed to purchase from the free bank market according to the ministerial regulations within the limits of the profits authorized to be trans- ferred abroad. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget for public sector for- eign exchange transactions is established annually. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general au- thorization, without obtaining specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Economy and For- eign Trade supervises imports and exports by the public sector. Certain imports and exports are re- served for public sector entities. Port Said City is accorded the status of a free zone. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyp- tian pounds, or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate Free Account (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, below), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the for- eign exchange regulations. However, the proceeds from raw cotton exports to all countries during the September 1989-August 1990 season must be re- ceived in U.S. dollars, with the exception of the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and Switzer- land, from which such proceeds can be received in their respective currencies or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with countries with which Egypt has bilateral payments agreements are made according to the terms of these agreements.4 However, pay- ments to such countries for imports and various other purposes not covered by these agreements may be made in convertible currency. Certain settle- ments with countries with which indemnity agree- ments concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special ac- counts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and may be paid by debiting Canal Dues Accounts, Ad- vance Payment Canal Dues Accounts, or Free Ac- counts in Foreign Currency. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in foreign currency, and balances are transferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements and the in- demnity agreements concluded with certain coun- tries and Canal Dues Accounts, there are three 4 At the end of December 31,1990, Egypt maintained operative bilateral payments agreements with the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Sudan, and the U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 EGYPT types of accounts: Free Accounts, D Accounts, and Nonconvertible Capital Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any entity other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened in either foreign currency or Egyptian pounds; the latter are freely convertible. Free Ac- counts in Foreign Currency may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad, transfers from other similar accounts, foreign bank notes registered in a customs declaration form, the equivalent in foreign currencies from funds trans- ferred from a Free Account in Egyptian Pounds, and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign bank notes to the owner or others, transfers to Free Ac- counts in Egyptian Pounds, and for any payment in Egypt, including those for exports and for bank charges and commissions. Free Accounts in Egyptian Pounds may be cred- ited with (1) the equivalent in Egyptian pounds for transfers from abroad in convertible currencies or from a Free Account in Foreign Currency; (2) trans- fers from similar accounts; (3) proceeds of sales to an authorized bank of foreign currencies registered in a customs declaration form; (4) proceeds of sales of bank instruments; and (5) interest on these ac- counts. These accounts may be debited for the equivalent in Egyptian pounds for transfers abroad in convertible currencies, transfers to other Free Accounts in Foreign Currency or transfers to similar accounts, funds withdrawn in foreign bank notes on behalf of the owner of the account or others, and funds used to meet local expenditures for the settle- ment of export goods. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a country with which Egypt has a bilat- eral payments agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner country con- cerned. These accounts may be credited with re- ceipts under the respective payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized from the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the country of the account holder and for local payments (including those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the implementing regulations and within the scope of the relevant payments agreement. Nonconvertible Capital Accounts may be credited with any payment of a capital nature to a foreigner living outside Egypt that is not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from the ac- count holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 10,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical per- sons may be debited for settlement of outstanding obligations to the Egyptian authorities; they may also be used for payments to residents for services rendered, up to a limit of LE 20,000 a year for ex- penses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Resident Accounts In addition to Free Accounts, which may be opened by both nonresidents and residents, resi- dents may hold Foreign Exchange Retention Ac- counts, Import Accounts in Foreign Exchange, and Capital and Working Accounts. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients and credited with the proceeds from certain exports of goods and invisible receipts. Public sector com- panies may use these funds for their purposes within the allocations of the foreign exchange bud- get, transfer them to other public sector companies within the same industrial group, or sell them to the authorized banks at the commercial bank rate. Pri- vate sector exporters may debit these accounts for visible and invisible payments related to their eco- nomic activity or sell the exchange in the commer- cial bank market, but may not transfer these funds to free accounts. Holders of Export Retention Ac- counts in the private sector are entitled —without the need to submit any documentation —to use up to 25 percent of the proceeds of their exports for financing travel expenses for the exporter or his employees, for other invisible payments related to the account holder's activity, and for settling re- patriation requirements. Unused balances in reten- tion accounts owned by the public sector, unless exempted, must be sold periodically to the banking system at the commercial bank rate. If the balances in the retention accounts owned by the public sector entities originate from invisible proceeds, unused balances must be surrendered monthly. In addition, balances in these accounts must be fully used by the account holder before authorized transactions can be effected by the public or private sector through the commercial bank market. Import Accounts in Foreign Exchange may be opened by authorized banks in the name of Egyp- tian nationals. They may be credited with transfers in convertible currencies, transfers from Free Ac- counts in Foreign Exchange or in Egyptian Pounds, transfers from another Import Account in Foreign Exchange, the equivalent in free currency of any amount of foreign exchange deposited by clients (regardless of the means of payment and the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 153 origin), and bank interest. They may be debited for the financing of private sector imports by the ac- count holder, for transfers abroad to cover invisible transactions related to the activity of the account holder, for settlements of obligations related to im- port transactions effected on behalf of the private sector, and to cover in the form of foreign bank notes and other acceptable means of payment the expen- ditures of the account holder or others abroad within the limit of US$500 (or its equivalent) a calen- dar year, provided that the amount drawn is regis- tered on the user's passport and travel ticket. The account holder may withdraw cash without any limit. Capital and Working Accounts may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 230 (of July 1989). These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, advance payments and long-term rents in foreign exchange, loans, funds purchased from the free bank market, and funds purchased from the free accounts to meet the project requirement; they may be debited for payments by the account holder (e.g., imports, profit remittances, interest, other invisibles, and financing of local expenditures). Holders of these accounts are not permitted to use the commercial bank market resources before the balances in their accounts are fully used. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. The Supreme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade formulates a long-term policy for exports and im- ports, controls the annual export and import plan, and supervises the execution of the foreign ex- change budget. Imports under payments agree- ments and imports of specified goods from any source are reserved for the public sector. Private sector trade with payments agreement countries is permitted in convertible currencies in items not cov- ered by Trade Protocol agreements. Imports by the Government, public authorities, and public sector companies are effected within the provisions of the foreign exchange budget through the central bank pool and the commercial bank mar- ket. For purposes of the foreign exchange budget, the economy is divided into several sectors (agricul- ture, industry, and transportation). The annual for- eign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of each sector decide on the goods to be imported and the entities that are to import them within that quota. All imports financed by the Central Bank are effected at the central bank rate, with the exception of capital goods imports financed by suppliers' credits, which are effected at the commercial bank rate, and imports under bilateral payments agree- ments, which are effected at a special, more appre- ciated rate (except for imports from the U.S.S.R. (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above)). Imports by the private sector are effected through the commercial bank market or from importers' own exchange resources. All commodities not included on the prohibited list of 210 items can be freely imported. Certain goods (e.g., imports financed with bilateral and multilateral assistance, compo- nents imported by licensed local manufacturers and assembly units, and free zone imports) are ex- empted from the negative list, and the items on the negative list may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Economy. On application to open a letter of credit, private sector importers (including companies covered by Law No. 230) must lodge with an authorized bank a 35 percent prior import deposit in domestic or foreign currency. These de- posits have to be financed from the importers' own resources. Banks are allowed to finance all or part of the remaining 65 percent. When suppliers' credit facilities are available, the importer may not be re- quired to cover the remaining 65 percent of the letter of credit, depending on the conditions of the sup- pliers' credit agreement. Goods may not be shipped before a letter of credit is opened, except for imports of spare parts needed for machinery and equipment for production activities provided that the importer pledges to present certification that, within two months, the parts were used or installed in accor- dance with the relevant regulations. For purposes of customs tariffs, products are clas- sified under 12 groups. The rates range from 0.7 percent to 120 percent. The weighted average rate was 25-30 percent in 1990. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange through the commercial bank market for all invis- ible payments by the public sector, within the framework of the foreign exchange budget and in accordance with current rules and regulations, pro- vided that the public sector entities concerned have used up the balances of their retention accounts. Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Invisible payments (e.g., authorized pilgrimage and medical treatment abroad, education, specified payments for emi- grants, etc.5) by the private sector may be financed through the commercial bank market. Egyptian na- tionals may use foreign exchange in their free ac- 5See footnote 4 for debt-service payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 154 EGYPT counts for invisible payments abroad. They may also purchase additional foreign exchange from other free accounts (see section on Nonresident Ac- counts, above). Profit remittances by companies covered by Law No. 230 are authorized through the commercial bank market, provided that funds in capital and working accounts have been used up first. Only Egyptian nationals, foreigners who have lived in the country for a continuous period of five years, and foreigners permitted to reside in Egypt for a period of ten years can purchase airline tickets (one-way or round-trip originating in Egypt) under certain conditions in Egyptian pounds. With this exception, all others must purchase tickets with con- vertible currencies or with Egyptian pounds con- verted at the commercial bank exchange rate. Travelers may not take out more than LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes. Egyptian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange that they have ac- quired legitimately; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may reconvert their remaining Egyptian pounds after deducting US$30 for each night spent in Egypt, provided that they produce evidence that they obtained Egyptian pounds at the commercial bank rate. Foreign workers and experts are authorized to transfer up to 50 percent of their earnings through commercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to South Africa, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the na- tional economy that may be restricted, exports may be made without license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade com- mittees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only, and their proceeds must be repatriated within three months. Proceeds from exports of books, newspapers, and other publications must be repatriated as soon as they are received and in any case within a period of not more than five years from the date of ship- ment. Proceeds from all other exports must be re- patriated within one year of the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of petroleum, cotton, and rice have to be sold to the Central Bank. Proceeds from exports of other products may be fully retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts, except that only 50 percent of the proceeds from exports of peanuts, onions, garlic, potatoes, citrus, live goats and sheep, fish, and molasses may be retained, and the remainder must be sold to the commercial banks at the bank rate. Proceeds from exports by both private and public sectors to bilateral payments agreement countries are obtained in Egyptian pounds, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. All departing foreigners who are carrying on their person gifts valued at more than LE 250 are required to show evidence that they exchanged foreign ex- change equivalent to the excess value at an autho- rized bank at the commercial bank rate. The corre- sponding limit on excess value applied to Egyptian nationals is LE 100, and that for purchases left be- hind with Khan El Khalil merchants is LE 500 (pro- vided that they are exported within three months of the date of the traveler's departure and that proof is provided that he visited Egypt). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earned abroad by persons and juridical entities other than the Egyptian Govern- ment, public authorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accounts. Receipts from tourism must be surrendered to the banking system at the commercial bank rate. How- ever, hotels are allowed to retain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in their working ac- counts. Hotels operating under Law No. 230 are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange earn- ings in their working accounts. With the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, hotels other than those operating under Law No. 230 may also retain an additional 15 percent of their foreign exchange earnings to meet their debt-service obli- gations. Travel agencies belonging to the private sector are allowed to retain 10 percent of their for- eign exchange earnings, and 100 percent if they operate under Law No. 230; Misr Travel is allowed to retain 25 percent. Other invisible earnings by public sector entities may be retained to the extent of 10 percent of the total; authorization to retain more or exemption from periodic surrender requirements must be ap- proved by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may im- port up to LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange; a customs declaration is required if the traveler wishes to re-export foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital EGYPT Gold 155 There are no restrictions on the use or transfer of balances on free accounts maintained in banks op- erating in Egypt. With this exception, outward capi- tal transfers are restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer abroad funds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 a family, and to export other personal effects and furniture up to LE 1,200 a per- son or LE 3,000 a family, and LE 6,000 for a woman of Egyptian nationality married to a foreigner. Transactions in Egyptian and foreign securities abroad relating to the purchase and sale of these securities must be carried out through authorized banks, provided that the funds used for this purpose represent free foreign exchange. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to intermediate in the transfer of owner- ship of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to undertake the local collection or payment in foreign currency of the value of the securities. All banks are required to deposit 15 percent of their foreign cur- rency deposits with the Central Bank. Transfers of accrued alimony are permitted in ac- cordance with court orders. Foreigners leaving Egypt permanently after a period of residence of at least five years are permitted to transfer abroad the equivalent of LE 5,000 in foreign currencies through authorized banks, irrespective of whether this sum represents capital assets owned by, or income accrued to, the foreign national. Amounts exceeding this sum are deposited in a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Law No. 230 of July 1989, concerning the invest- ment of Arab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones, defines the treatment of new foreign invest- ments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are considered on an individual basis. Banks are not authorized to deal .or speculate (for their own or their customers' account) in precious metals. The importation of precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements is regulated. The exportation of gold and silver fab- rics may be permitted, provided that the sales pro- ceeds are repatriated in convertible currencies. Travelers are permitted to take out and bring in their gold jewelry within specified limits. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The central bank pool rate was adjusted from LE 1.1 = US$1 to LE 2.0 = US$1, and the Ministry of Finance changed its accounting ex- change rate for budgetary purposes from LE 0.7 = US$1 to LE 2.0 = US$1. Foreign exchange earned from rice exports, the Suez Canal Authority, and the Egyptian General Petroleum Company was effected at the central bank pool rate, and transactions on Subaccount One in respect of profits from foreign exchange opera- tions that are maintained by the Ministry of Finance at the Central Bank were suspended. Foreign exchange from cotton exports was effected at the rate of LE 1.1 = US$1 instead of LE 0.7 = US$1, and Subaccount Two would be credited with the difference between the exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction and the exchange rate of LE 1.1 = US$1. Subaccount Three was suspended. External debt-service obligations and defense outlays would henceforth be debited to the Ministry's account at the central bank pool rate prevailing on the date of their maturity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon. El Salvador maintains a unified floating ex- change rate system under which commercial banks and exchange houses are free to purchase and sell foreign exchange for authorized transactions at rates determined by supply and demand conditions in the market. The Central Reserve Bank establishes weekly the exchange rate applicable to transactions between the Central Reserve Bank and the public sector, to foreign exchange surrendered by coffee exporters to the Central Reserve Bank, and to the calculation of tax obligations. This exchange rate is the simple average of the exchange rates set by commercial banks and exchange houses during the previous week. In addition, the Central Reserve Bank may purchase or sell foreign exchange to com- mercial banks at the rate prevailing in the market at the time of the transaction. On December 31, 1990, the Central Reserve Bank's buying and selling ex- change rates were C 8.08 and C 8.13, respectively, per US$1. On December 31,1990, the average rate of commercial banks was C 8.06 = US$1, and the average rate of exchange houses was C 8.05 = US$1. A tax of 0.1 percent is applicable to all sales of exchange; on amounts of less than C 100,000, the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may slightly exceed 0.1 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to the general directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control authority is ex- ercised by the Central Reserve Bank. Authorization for all private sector imports and invisible payments is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Capital account transactions have to be au- thorized by the Central Reserve Bank. Exports of a number of products require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, subject to agreement by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domes- tic trade in coffee. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. On August 20,1986, a new payments mechanism called the Derecho de Importation Centroamericana (DICA) was approved in principle to settle trade transactions with other countries of Central America. To date, operations under this payment mechanism have been neglig- ible, and they have de facto been suspended. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions and nonresidents in El Salvador may hold Nonresident Accounts in foreign currency with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. Banks may also freely open Foreign Cur- rency Accounts, for any period of time and in any amount, in the names of individuals (whether of foreign or Salvadoran nationality) who reside abroad and, for a maximum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons residing in El Salvador for less than six months. All Nonresident Accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements of such accounts. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts Banks may open Foreign Currency Deposit Ac- counts in the name of duty-free shops and enter- prises exporting nontraditional goods and services or requiring imported inputs and services for pro- duction. The accounts may be opened in U.S. dol- lars or in any other approved foreign currency; transactions can be effected only in the currency in which an account is opened. Accounts may be in the form of a demand or time deposit and are sub- ject to a reserve requirement of 50 percent. The banks must place the funds thus deposited in in- vestments abroad. Interest rates on these deposits must be set at 2 percent below LIBOR. Funds from foreign currency deposit accounts can only be uti- lized for transactions of the holder. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 157 including airplanes, firearms, ammunition, military equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and phar- maceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Imports from the member countries of the Cen- tral American Common Market (CACM) can be fi- nanced by sight drafts or letters of credit with unre- stricted maturity, direct payments, or through the regional clearing arrangement. Imports from coun- tries outside the CACM that apply discriminatory restrictions against exports from El Salvador must be paid for before customs clearance, with the ex- ception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years. Authorization for private sector import payments is delegated to the commercial banks. Payments for imports by the public sector are made by the Exter- nal Department of the Central Reserve Bank. The External Department handles all official bilateral lines of credit, and lines of credit for Industrial Reac- tivation funded by the Inter-American Develop- ment Bank. Import tariffs generally range from 5 to 35 per- cent. Payments for Invisibles Restrictions on payments for invisibles of a per- sonal nature (i.e., medical treatment, study abroad, and foreign travel) were eliminated in Decem- ber 1990, and the authority to grant foreign ex- change for expenses relating to foreign travel and study abroad is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Travelers may not take out more than C 200 in domestic bank notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for certain foods tuffs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply. An export registration certificate from the Central Reserve Bank is required for all exports exceeding US$200. Export proceeds from coffee are required to be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank. In addi- tion, all other export proceeds received through the commercial banks must be reported to the Central Reserve Bank. The term for export receipts on a collection basis normally must not exceed 30 days after the issuance of export registration certificate. Exporters of specified nontraditional products to markets outside Central America receive a "draw- back" to the equivalent of 20 percent of the f .o .b. value of export products. These certificates may be used for payment of direct and indirect taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to an export tax of 30 percent, which is applied to prices exceeding US$45 a pound. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold to the Central Reserve Bank, an authorized com- mercial bank or an exchange house. Travelers may bring in C 200 in domestic bank notes and coins; this limit is, however, subject to modification to facili- tate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital trans- actions must be surrendered to the monetary au- thorities, including direct and indirect foreign in- vestment. The entry of capital with a maturity in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial enterprises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable natural resources, and tourist enter- prises; (2) remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 percent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economic Affairs); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enter- prises (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing investments or par- ticipations, including capital gains; and (5) pay- ment of interest and amortization as determined at the time of registration. In the case of (3) and (4), in addition to the approval of the Central Reserve Bank, the prior approval of the Ministry of Eco- nomic Affairs is required. Payments abroad representing capital transfers require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital. Prior approval by the Central Reserve Bank is required for outward remittances of interest and amortization on external loans. Foreign loans with a maturity of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank; foreign loans with a maturity of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Central Reserve Bank is au- thorized to set ceilings on the utilization of foreign credit by the commercial banks and the mortgage bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 EL SALVADOR Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain minimum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding inter- est. For purposes of this decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five CACM member countries. Gold Gold coins in denominations of C 25, <L 50, C 100, and C 200 have been issued as legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Re- serve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jew- elers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their mem- bers and other users for dental purposes. Changes During 1990 December 13. El Salvador became a member of the GATT. Exchange Arrangement March 19. A temporary system of multiple ex- change rates was established. It consisted of an official exchange rate of C 6.9 = US$1, a bank rate that was determined jointly between the Central Reserve Bank and the commercial banks, and a combination of these two rates for payments for certain imports and receipts from coffee exports. The exchange system was simplified on May 24 through a series of measures, including the estab- lishment of exchange houses (effectively legalizing the parallel market), greater flexibility in the com- mercial bank market, and ultimately, in June, the establishment of the official rate in reference to the transaction rates of the commercial banks and ex- change houses. (See June 1 change, below.) April 10. The regulations on the establishment of exchange houses were announced. Exchange houses would be permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange in the form of banknotes, traveler's checks and other instruments at rates freely determined by supply and demand conditions. June 1. The process of unification of the exchange system, which began in May, was completed. The Central Reserve Bank's official exchange rate would henceforth be determined on a weekly basis as a simple average of the exchange rate prevailing in the exchange markets of commercial banks and ex- change houses during the previous week. This ex- change rate would be applied to transactions be- tween the Central Reserve Bank and the public sector, to foreign exchange surrendered by coffee exporters to the Central Reserve Bank, and to the calculation of tax obligations. For tax purposes, the actual transaction rates of commercial banks and exchange houses may also be used, provided that they do not differ by more than 3 percent from the exchange rate of the Central Reserve Bank. In addi- tion, the Central Reserve Bank reserved the right to transact (buy or sell) foreign exchange with com- mercial banks and exchange houses at the prevail- ing exchange rate. December 3. The Central American Payment Sys- tem, based on a cooperation agreement between the Central American Community and the European Community, entered into effect. The system maybe used to effect payments for trade in goods and services between the members of the Central Amer- ican Community, and it is intended to complement pre-existing mechanisms of trade finance. The sys- tem is integrated with the Central American Multi- lateral Clearing Mechanism, and the participating central banks are subject to quotas regarding out- standing debit positions under the arrangement. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The maximum tariff rate for all products, except for certain luxury goods, was lowered to 35 percent from 50 percent. July 1. Authorization for imports in excess of US$300 was transferred to commercial banks. August 7. The 20 percent guarantee deposit re- quired for advanced payments for imports of goods and services was eliminated. December 3. A trade agreement was signed with Honduras, which provided that, on a nonreciprocal basis, a range of Honduran goods may be imported into El Salvador duty free. Payments for Invisibles July 1. Authorization for payments of invisibles was transferred to commercial banks and exchange houses. December 5. Restrictions on the sale of foreign exchange for purposes of overseas travel, educa- tional expenses, and official missions were eliminated. December 29. The maximum tariff rate on luxury goods was lowered to 35 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 159 Exports and Export Proceeds April 27. The Law for the Reactivation of Ex- AT L O O TU j. j •,. • j. ports, abolishing the "certificate for discounting November 28. The guarantee deposit requirement f ,. . 5 • / /j u \» CQ * , ? / i j- i - taxes and introducing a drawback of 8 percent f or temporary exports (such as sending machinery r ^ u ru i ? i . j - 4 .- i 4 . 4. , ,r, - ^ i. • ^ j r,,, , ^ of the f .o .b. value of nontraditional exports to abroad for repair) was eliminated. The guarantee , . * -j /- * i A • - 4. , .t -t/- t. • ^ j L -^ markets outside Central America, came into deposit requirement for anticipated export receipts effect. was also eliminated in respect of re-exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs be- tween the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris ex- change market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not mem- bers of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Equa- torial Guinea's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Be- nin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Re- public, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers of more than CFAF 500,000 to countries of the Operations Account Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical pur- poses. All other countries are considered foreign countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate General of Exchange Control (ONCC) in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating 1The CFA franc circulating in Equatorial Guinea is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Ac- count country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury. Settlements with all other countries are usu- ally made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Ac- counts in Francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All other imports valued at more than CFAF 50,000 are subject to license, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions whose value exceeds CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final desti- nation. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authorization of un- interrupted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 161 subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely when the basic transaction has been ap- proved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiv- alent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after their return to Equatorial Guinea must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFA 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. Of that amount, CFAF 150,000 may be bills. Travelers must present certificates of their activity and permission from their enterprise to travel. Additional allocations may be allowed. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to a limit equivalent to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remit- tances for current repair and management of real property abroad are to be limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The trans- fer of the salary of a foreigner working in Equatorial Guinea will be permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher as well as justification of expenses, provided that the transfer takes place within a month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Equatorial Guinea temporarily, payments of insurance pre- miums to foreign countries up to CFAF 50,000 are permitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the ONCC. Resident and nonresident travelers to coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Trav- elers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from ex- ports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days of the arrival date of the merchandise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries re- quire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are freely permitted.2 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Equatorial Guinea. They must have the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is not normally given, as there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Ex- ports are allowed only to France. Imports and ex- ports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) im- 2Regulations on capital transactions, such as the sale of foreign securities in Equatorial Guinea or direct investments, have been prepared and are pending approval. The authorities are also in the process of drafting legislation aimed at stimulating foreign investment in the agricultural, forestry, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equipment maintenance sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 EQUATORIAL GUINEA ports and exports of manufactured articles contain- ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt im- ports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted; daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) are set on the basis of the official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's dosing rate of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in London. The National Bank does not deal with the public; its transactions in U.S. dollars with the authorized dealers take place at the official rate. Authorized dealers must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 percent buying and 1.50 percent selling; in addi- tion, they are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for their own account of up to 0.25 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margin charges applied by the correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usu- ally levied. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers require the approval of the Na- tional Bank to undertake forward exchange transac- tions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be car- ried out through authorized dealers under the con- trol of the National Bank. All payments abroad re- quire licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require permits issued by that office. The Minister of Foreign Trade has statu- tory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate im- ports and exports. Arrears are maintained with re- spect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in con- vertible foreign exchange appropriate to the coun- try of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net pro- ceeds of exports must be received in a freely con- vertible foreign currency, or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. De- posits to these accounts can be made only in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts do not re- quire prior approval. Members of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontransfer- able birr accounts for payments of local expenses. No resident Ethiopian national may maintain a bank account abroad. A joint venture may be permitted to open foreign currency, transferable or non- transferable, birr accounts to purchase raw mate- rials, equipment, and spare parts not available in the local market. As soon as the goods are received, documentary evidence of entry of the goods pur- chased with such funds must be submitted to the Exchange Control Department. In general, the ac- counts may be replenished only after such docu- ments have been presented. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained with authorized banks and are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and all imports from other sources require a license. Payments abroad for imports require exchange li- censes, which are obtainable upon presentation of a valid importer's license. Approval of applications for exchange licenses is conditional upon the provi- sion of satisfactory information on costs and pay- ment terms and upon the submission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign ex- change is not made available for a specified group of imported goods (including alcoholic beverages and certain durable consumer goods) considered to be nonessential or readily substitutable by domestic 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 ETHIOPIA products. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization from the Minister of Transport and Communications. Such authorization is readily granted if imports are financed with foreign ex- change balances held abroad without restriction as to frequency. Exchange licenses are granted in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, tele- graphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable, but the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash against documents basis. Certain imports (about 100 items, mostly con- sumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and intermediate materials, pharmaceuticals, and ma- chinery and transport equipment. All imports are subject to a general (ad valorem) sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange li- censes. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 percent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sector); they may remit a maximum of between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earn- ings during the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facili- ties may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign ex- change equivalent to Br 125 a day for a maximum period of 20 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes; for tourism, persons 18 years of age and over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 to study abroad, and Ethiopian nationals with depen- dents who are pursuing higher studies at accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Resi- dents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of up to Br 10,000 for medical treatment and travel abroad. After provid- ing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethio- pian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti are also prohibited. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an ex- porter must specify the goods to be exported, their destination, and their value. For exports on a c . i .f. basis, exporters must obtain full insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing sys- tem is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports of hides and skins are regulated and are prohibited until the needs of local factories have been met. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be de- clared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is subject to authorization, except for temporary visi- tors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, to prevent an unwarranted ac- cumulation of external debt, and to keep the au- thorities informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the form of foreign ex- change must be surrendered. Exchange control au- thorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities estab- lishes evidence of receipt, which is required for repatriation. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropri- ate documentation, foreign businessmen having ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 165 nonregistered investments may transfer their capi- tal abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethiopia, but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. This regulation does not apply to joint ventures established under the Coun- cil of State Special Decree on Investment No. 17/1990 of May 19, 1990. Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are re- stricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Foreign investors are permitted to hold a majority share in a joint venture, except in the precious met- als, public utilities, telecommunications, banking and insurance, transport, and retail trade sectors. All applications for joint ventures must be approved by the Office of the State Committee for Foreign Economic Relations and registered with the Minis- try of Domestic Trade; a minimum of 25 percent of share capital must be paid before registration. Ex- emptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects, and for up to three years for major extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemptions from customs duties and other specified import levies in the case of new projects or major expansions to existing projects. Proceeds from the liquidation of a joint venture (as well as dividends received from the activities of a joint venture and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares) can be remitted abroad in convertible currency without restriction. A joint venture may also transfer abroad in convertible cur- rency payments in respect of debt contracted and fees/royalties in respect of technology transfer agreements relating to a joint venture. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control ap- proval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed- term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without the per- mission of the National Bank. In addition, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to bor- row funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless speci- fically authorized by the Minister of Mines and En- ergy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethiopian Mineral Resources Development Corpor- ation to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require ex- change licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments May 9. A general (ad valorem) sales tax was intro- duced on imported goods. May 21. Any individual or organization was per- mitted to import vehicles of any type under the Franco-Valuta system without restriction as to frequency. Capital May 19. The Council of State Special Decree on Investment No. 17/1990 was promulgated, replac- ing the Joint Venture Council of State Special Decree No. 11/1989 of 1989. The Decree removed restric- tions on the size of activity and substantially liber- alized restrictions on the type and sectors of activity for private participation. It also guaranteed the right of foreign investors to remit profits and dividends and the proceeds from the sale of assets. Investors in agriculture, industry, construction, and hotel ser- vices were accorded such incentives as exemption from customs duties and income tax; incentives were made more attractive for larger investments and investments in priority areas. To implement this policy, the decree contained the regulations for the issuance of licenses for investment in agri- cultural activities, tourist and hotel facilities, and manufacturing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the external value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket of the currencies of Fiji's most im- portant trading partners. The weighting formula is normally reviewed every three years; the most re- cent revision was made in 1986. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1990, the midpoint exchange rate for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar was F$1.4592 per US$1. The Reserve Bank of Fiji provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 4, 1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Fiji, acting as agent of the Government; the Reserve Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments. Ex- cept with the specific permission of the Reserve Bank, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they re- ceive.1 The Ministry of Trade and Commerce is re- sponsible for issuing import licenses, with the ex- ception of those for gold, timber, rice, and dairy products. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, for timber by the Ministry of Forestry, and for rice and dairy products by the Ministry of Primary Indus- tries and Cooperatives. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. 1 Under Fiji's Exchange Control Regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an External Account in Fiji currency or a Foreign Currency Account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. These accounts may be credited freely with inter- est payable on the account, with payments from other External Accounts, with the proceeds of sales of for- eign currency or foreign coins by the account holder, and with Fiji currency notes that the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit. External Accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for which either general or specific authority has been given. External Accounts may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other External Accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license; imports of seed potatoes and coffee in any form require a license. A wide range of consumer goods are imported by national cooperative so- cieties under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. Import prohibitions are im- posed on a few commodities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow pay- ments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Authorized banks may allow advance pay- ments of up to F$2,000 for all imports, provided the goods are imported into Fiji within 90 days of the date the advance payment is made. The approval of the Reserve Bank of Fiji is required in cases where amounts exceed F$2,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted either un- der a delegated authority to banks or, where large 2A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country other than Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for at least three years. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 167 amounts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application to the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Pay- ments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. The approval of the Reserve Bank of Fiji, however, is required in cases where amounts exceed the established limits. Residents of Fiji trav- eling to other countries may obtain from a bank, without reference to the Reserve Bank, a foreign currency travel allowance for a private or business visit up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a journey; amounts in excess of this limit are ap- proved by the Reserve Bank of Fiji in cases of gen- uine need supported by documentary proof. There is no restriction on the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take with him F$100 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$500 in other currencies, provided that these amounts are not in addition to travel allowances approved by a bank or the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Residents of Fiji are allowed to make cash gifts to nonresidents equivalent to F$200 a donor a year; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Foreign-owned companies must apply to the Re- serve Bank for permission to transfer dividends abroad. The policy of the Reserve Bank is to allow the remittance of the current year's profits and one year's retained earnings. The transfer abroad of rent to nonresidents must be approved by the Reserve Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of any export-licensing require- ments, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f .o .b. value of more than F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control pur- poses. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exporta- tion of the goods from Fiji and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months with- out specific permission. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Residents are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Receipts of interest, dividends, and amortization must be surrendered on a half-yearly basis unless approval for reinvestment abroad was given by the Reserve Bank. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires the specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. For- eign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Overseas investments and other forms of capital transfers abroad have been temporarily sus- pended. The purchase of personal real property abroad is not permitted. Foreign-owned companies are permitted to re- patriate proceeds from the sale of assets up to the limit of F$l million a company a year. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a non- resident. The transfer of funds by emigrants on departure is limited to F$20,000 for married and F$13,000 for single applicants. Thereafter, the emi- grant is allowed an automatic transfer of F$3,000 a month commencing three months after emigration until the amount cleared by the Inland Revenue Department has been fully transferred. Authority is delegated to banks operating in Fiji to approve transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency, whether for credit to a resident account or to an External Account; and (2) the cred- iting of an External Account with Fiji currency ema- nating from another External Account (including Fiji currency accounts of overseas banks). The banks must send confirmation of such inflows to the Reserve Bank; they must also have the approval of the Bank before granting any loans of more than F$10,000 to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by per- sons resident outside Fiji or by individuals desig- nated as nonresidents; however, the banks do not need such approval to lend up to F$10,000 to indi- vidual nonresident customers, who must repay such loans prior to their departure from Fiji. The banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Residents require permission from the Reserve Bank of Fiji before they may borrow foreign currency in Fiji or abroad. The facility for residents to purchase foreign cur- rency up to a maximum of F$5,000 a family a year to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 FIJI acquire foreign currency securities has been sus- pended. The purchase of personal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Special tax incentives are granted for investments in the tourism industry, and an investment allowance similar to that for the hotel industry is provided for large outlay invest- ment projects that support the tourist industry. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires the approval of the Reserve Bank; the proceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be repatriated. Banks require exchange control permis- sion to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresidents. During 1990 the Reserve Bank of Fiji encouraged accelerated repayments of more expensive external loans. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Fiji but not gold bullion. The exporta- tion of gold coins, except numismatic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Gold imports from all sources, other than imports of gold coins, require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning; these are re- stricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins are free of fiscal tax but are subject to a customs duty of 10 percent; gold bullion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 percent. Gold jewelry is subject to customs duty at the rate of 10 percent and to a fiscal duty of 10 percent but does not require a license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export duty but require licenses if their value exceeds F$l,000. Ex- ports of gold bullion are subject to an export duty of 2 percent. All newly mined gold is refined in Aus- tralia and sold at free market prices. Commemora- tive gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not normally circulate. Changes During 1990 Exports and Export Proceeds November 21. The export tax on gold, silver, sugar, and molasses was reduced to 2 percent from 5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka. The external value of the markka is defined in terms of an index reflecting a weighted average of the exchange rates of the convertible currencies most important for Finland's foreign trade. These are de- fined as the convertible currencies of countries that have accounted for not less than 1 percent of Fin- land's commodity imports and exports in each of the preceding three calendar years. The value of the exchange rate index is maintained by the Suomen Pankki (Bank of Finland) within a margin estab- lished by the Council of State. During January 1984- November 1988, the range was 101.3-106.0 (1982 = 100); it was widened to 100.5-106.8 in Decem- ber 1988, and lowered by about 4 percentage points, to 96.5-102.5, as of March 17, 1989. The index weights are adjusted quarterly and are based on the average trade shares for the past two years; the base year is changed annually. The Suomen Pankki cal- culates and publishes the currency index on a daily basis and quotes daily (noon) buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. On December 31, 1990, the rates were Fmk 3.626 and Fmk 3.642 per US$1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on market cross rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. Non- banks may obtain forward cover for authorized transactions only. Forward premiums and discounts quoted by authorized banks reflect interest rate dif- ferentials in the countries of various currencies. The Suomen Pankki does not provide forward cover for commercial banks. It also does not quote forward ruble rates. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control The Suomen Pankki operates the exchange con- trol system, delegating authority in practice to the authorized banks (mainly commercial banks). Im- port and export licensing is administered by the Export and Import Permits Office (a unit subordi- nate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry), which is headed by a board composed of government offi- cials, including a representative of the Suomen Pankki. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Finland notified the Fund on September 10, 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the convertible cur- rency countries and the bilateral countries.1 Settle- ments with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement (the clearing ruble for the U.S.S.R. and the clearing Finnish markka for Bulgaria). Settlements with the convertible cur- rency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts may be held in an autho- rized bank in any convertible currency, including Finnish markkaa. These accounts may be freely credited and debited. *At the beginning of 1990, Finland maintained clearing ar- rangements with Bulgaria, Poland, the German Democratic Re- public, and the U.S.S.R. The payments agreement with Poland was abolished at the beginning of April 1990. In May 1990, Finland ceased to effect export proceeds through the Bulgarian clearing account as Bulgaria was not able to settle imbalances that exceeded the credit limits with convertible currencies. Payments to Bulgaria were channeled through the account. Following the unification of Germany, Finland and Germany agreed to abolish the clearing arrangement at the end of June 1990. The present bilateral clearing payments arrangement with the U.S.S.R. is based on a five-year agreement on the exchange of goods and payments covering 1986-90. On September 9,1988, Finland and the U.S.S.R. concluded amendments to this agreement, under which the maximum imbalance in the clearing account would be limited to rub 200 million. Beginning January 1, 1990, the im- balance exceeding this limit would be settled quarterly in con- vertible currencies, and the imbalance exceeding rub 100 million would earn interest at an international money market rate. On December 27, 1990, Finland and the U.S.S.R. agreed to abolish the bilateral clearing payments arrangement, with effect from January 1, 1991. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 FINLAND Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are purchased from, and originate in, those coun- tries. However, certain goods2 may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota sys- tem, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of quotas for specified commodity groups. With the exception of the commodities to which reference was made in the preceding paragraph, import licenses are not required for most com- modities originating in and purchased from the U.S.S.R., or originating in and purchased from the four countries with which agreements on the re- ciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland). All imports of commodities originat- ing in countries or areas not classified3 in either the multilateral area or the bilateral area require indi- vidual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency responsible for the importation of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Authorized banks freely grant foreign exchange for all imports for which licenses are granted, on presentation of a notification form, the import li- cense (when required for imports from countries with nonconvertible currencies), and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. An importer may obtain foreign credits through an authorized bank for the payment of imports, provided that the matu- rity period of credit does not exceed six months; for a credit with longer maturity, the Suomen Pankki grants permission after verification. Payments for Invisibles Payments in respect of invisible transactions are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most invisibles. A Finnish resident traveling abroad may pur- chase foreign exchange without limit from commer- cial banks. Nonresident travelers may take out of the country Fmk 10,000 a trip in Finnish or foreign bank 2Some agricultural commodities, some fish, fuels, and other petroleum products. 3Currently, Taiwan Province of China and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea. notes and coins without export certificates for means of payment and any amount in Finnish or foreign bank notes and coins they declared upon entry; resident travelers may take out of the country foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 10,000, without the export certifi- cate for means of payment. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to repatriate foreign ex- change proceeds within eight days of collection, which they may then hold in a domestic foreign currency account with an authorized bank in Fin- land or convert into domestic currency. Export li- censes are required only for exports of scrap metal. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Exports to the U.S.S.R., which is outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade, are allocated by means of bilateral trade arrangements. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from current invisibles must be repatriated within eight days of collection. The funds may be held in a domestic foreign cur- rency account in Finland. The importation of do- mestic and foreign currency and coins is unrestricted. Capital The Suomen Pankki has exempted from regula- tion foreign credits with at least a one-year maturity raised by companies engaged in business activities or by other corporate entities, with the exception of housing and real estate companies. The authorized banks and certain other financial institutions are entitled to act as intermediaries between such credits and their corporate customers. Companies engaged in business activity may grant credits ex- ceeding one year to nonresidents. Financial and insurance companies may, however, obtain credits from or grant credits to nonresidents only after they have obtained the permission of the Suomen Pan- kki. Permission is not required for customary export credits; suppliers' credits over three months to resi- dents of Bulgaria and the U.S.S.R. are, however, subject to special permit by the Suomen Pankki. International banking activities of Finnish autho- rized banks are free of regulations but are subject to certain supervisory reporting requirements. Residents of Finland are authorized to invest in foreign securities or real estate abroad, or to place funds in accounts with foreign monetary institu- tions. Outward direct investments are also freely ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 171 permitted without referring to the Suomen Pankki. Inheritances are freely transferable to the beneficia- ries. Persons who reside outside Finland are al- lowed to transfer abroad their net assets in Finland in one lump sum. Sales abroad of new markka-denominated bonds with maturities that exceed one year, with the ex- ception of bonds issued by housing and real estate companies, are permitted. Nonresidents may purchase Finnish securities only if they are "free shares" or related options quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange or on the authorized banks' OTC market in Finland. A non- resident purchaser of Finnish shares is permitted to sell them and to transfer abroad the net proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. Inward direct investments require the approval of the Council of State if they involve purchases of property and real estate; other inward direct invest- ments are approved by the Ministry of Trade and Industry; such approval is usually granted. Direct investments from countries with which Finland maintains bilateral payments agreements as well as direct investments in the financial and insurance sectors must be approved by the Suomen Pankki. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real prop- erty must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. Changes During 1990 Capital February 1. The following measures were an- nounced: (1) the Suomen Pankki authorized sales abroad of new markka-denominated bonds with maturities exceeding one year, with the exception of bonds issued by housing and real estate companies (the existing ban on cross-border sales remains in force for bonds issued previously); (2) nonresidents were authorized to issue markka-denominated bonds in Finland; (3) the Suomen Pankki exempted Finnish companies' share issues abroad from the requirement of prior authorization; (4) the Suomen Pankki no longer required quotation by the Helsinki Stock Exchange or the OTC market as a condition for the issue of foreign securities in Finland; and (5) nonresidents purchasing Finnish securities were no longer required to effect their purchases through the Helsinki Stock Exchange or the OTC market. March I. The Suomen Pankki decided that finance companies were permitted to apply for the right to intermediate and raise foreign loans to the extent allowed by the limits on their foreign currency posi- tion. (Previously only deposit banks were accorded this right.) July 1. The Suomen Pankki permitted private per- sons to undertake foreign investments and to grant loans of over one year's maturity to nonresidents without limit. This liberalization measure would also apply to corporate entities, such as housing and real estate companies, considered comparable to private persons. Furthermore, local authorities were allowed to undertake foreign investments, grant loans of over one year's maturity to nonresi- dents, and raise foreign loans of over one year's maturity for financing their own operations. The Suomen Pankki also expanded the scope of financial sector enterprises to engage in foreign op- erations. In addition to banks, mortgage banks and credit companies would be able to apply for the right to intermediate and raise foreign loans and to make foreign investments within the limits of their foreign currency positions. September 1. The Suomen Pankki decided that residents may purchase and sell derivative instru- ments on foreign or Finnish shares without restriction. January I, 1991. All remaining foreign exchange controls, except those regarding the raising of loans abroad by private individuals and comparable cor- porate entities, were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Ire- land, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of plus 2.2753 percent or minus 2.2247 percent (in the case of the Spanish peseta and the pound sterling, plus 6.18 percent or minus 5.82 percent, in the case of the pound ster- ling, within margins of 6 percent) against the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the Central Bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un- limited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1990, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 1 Irish pound 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas Francs Upper Limit Lower Limit 16.631 89.925 343.05 9.189 0.45855 304.44 10.5055 5.4785 15.899 85.970 327.92 8.785 0.4383 291.04 9.3180 4.8595 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Buying and selling rates for 20 curren- cies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Finnish mark- kaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaires. On December 28, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were F 5.1230 and F 5.1350, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the f ranc ap- ply to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the Overseas Territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, and to the CFA franc, which is the currency of countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account2. These fixed parities are CFPF 1 = F 0.055 and CFAF 1 = F 0.02, respectively. Registered banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank resi- dents may purchase foreign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents in- cluding nonenterprise individuals may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restric- tion. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations apply in all territories of the French Republic, that is, France, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martini- que, French Guiana, and Reunion), Mayotte, St. Pierre and Miquelon, and the three Overseas Ter- ritories (Wallis and Futuna Islands, New Cal- edonia, and French Polynesia). No exchange con- trol is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account countries (see footnote 2); all payments between France and these countries or territories are free of restriction on the part of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries or territories are considered for- eign countries for exchange control purposes. 2Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 173 The exchange control regulations include con- trols over inward direct investment on the basis of Decree No. 89-938 of December 29, 1989 and De- cree No. 9058 of Janua ry 15, 1991. These decrees apply to financial relations with all countries ex- cept those belonging to the Operations Account countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and the Budget is the coordi- nating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad, un- less they relate to real estate companies, in which case the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the bal- ance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. The Directorate of Treasury of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and the Budget has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and so on. The execution of all t rans fe rs has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Admin- istration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls, within the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Direc- torate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE); the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses and is responsible for any litigation relat- ing to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are is- sued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Indus try has certain re- sponsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, France notified the Fund, on August 8,1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwa i t. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account coun- tries may be made in f rancs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury.3 Settle- ments w i th all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in f rancs. Im- porters and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident enterprises engaged in international trade are authorized to hold foreign currency ac- counts in France or abroad. Such enterprises are also authorized to hold accounts in f rancs abroad. All residents, including individuals and enter- prises not engaged in international trade, are per- mitted to hold ECU-denominated accounts in France, to hold fore ign currency-denominated ac- counts in France or abroad, and to hold French franc-denom ina ted accounts abroad. Nonresident accounts in f rancs may be free ly opened by registered banks for nonresidents, in- cluding French nationals (other than officials) who are residing abroad. Since March 1989, all overdrafts and advances on non-resident-held f ranc accounts have been unres tr ic ted. Nonresi- dent accounts may be operated freely. Em igran ts of foreign or French nationality may take out all of their assets upon depar ture. In addition, nonresidents may hold foreign currency accounts with French and foreign-owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped f rom other countries that are accorded privileged t rea tment in respect of exchange control regulations (see sec- tion on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted f ree of quantitative restrictions and individual licenses. Imports of goods that originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require individual li- censes. Some imports f rom non-EC countries are subject to minimum prices; these require an ad- ministrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certifi- cates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged trea tment are divided into four groups according to the ex- tent of import liberalization: (1) the former Or- ganization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) countries, their dependent territories, 3Comprising the ins t i tu tes of issue of the Operations Ac- count countries and the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Fu tuna Is lands). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 FRANCE and certain former dependent territories, An- dorra, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Is- rael, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, United States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) some specified countries;4 and (3) the Eastern European countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ro- mania, andU .S .S .R . ), People's Republic of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia. Goods covered by the import liberaliza- tion arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, pro- vided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantita- tive restrictions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural and electronic products; there is relatively little d ifference between the lists of goods that may be imported freely f rom dif- ferent countries in this group. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, global quotas are allocated annually (petroleum and petroleum products) or semiannually and ap- ply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Imports f rom all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports f rom non-EC countries of most prod- ucts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade con- trols, but do require a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration. For some lib- eralized imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or by the ap- propriate ministry is required on an import decla- ration. Imports of the products of the European 4Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ec- uador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indo- nesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Republic of Yemen. Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) require such administrative visas when originating in non- ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual im- port licenses. These are granted up to quotas de- termined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and apply to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agree- ments or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Imports of some products must pass through designated customs offices. Documents accompanying goods passing through customs must be written in or translated into French. Quantitative import restrictions consist of EC- wide restrictions and national restrictions. The fo rmer include bilaterally agreed restrictions on textile imports under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and voluntary export restraints on a num- ber of agricultural and industrial products negoti- ated at the EC level. EC-wide restrictions are en- forced through import licensing subject to prior authorization. National restrictions on imports f rom third countries that are in free circulation within the EC are enforced through temporary import restrictions authorized by the EC Commis- sion under Article 115 of the EEC Treaty. In cases where the restrictions are not officially recognized by the EC (e.g., industry-to-industry understand- ings that do not directly involve member govern- ments), import restrictions are enforced through national import licensing or standards and cer- tification procedures. Automatic licensing is granted for imports that are under surveillance at either the EC or the national level. Payments for imports f rom foreign countries may be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs, with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange market or by debiting a foreign currency account in France or abroad. All resi- dents and international trading houses may free ly open accounts in foreign currencies in France with registered banks or abroad (also in French francs) without limit on the credit balance. Payments may be made by transfer through a registered bank, by credit card, by check, by compensation of debts or claims, or by bank notes. The amounts that may be transferred through postal channels are not subject to limitation, but, in practice, the Postal Administration does not make import payments valued at over F 250,000. Registered banks may, without special authorization, permit advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 175 Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries by residents for current invisibles have to be reported but are not restricted as to amounts. Registered banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for all categories of current invisibles without any limitation. Transfers of amounts exceeding the equivalent of F 50,000 are required to be declared. Outward remittances for family support abroad and t rans fe rs of donations to nonresidents are freely permitted. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or f irms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. There are no limits on expenditures for travel abroad. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign or domestic bank notes resident and non- resident travelers may take out, but amoun ts near or exceeding F 50,000 or its equivalent must be declared to customs upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' items), these exports may be permitted w i thout any formality, subject to cer- tain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are not subject to any exchange control, except when they are made by an occasional exporter, in which case payment must be received through the exchange market. Exporters are allowed forward coverage of an un- limited period, and may hold foreign currency accounts at home and abroad without limit on the credit balance. Registered banks may freely ex- tend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled by the receipts of the corresponding exports. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. With minor exceptions for cer- tain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins (except gold coins) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; amounts of F 50,000 or larger, however, must be declared to customs upon ar- rival. The exchange of bank notes issued by Al- geria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Capital Capital movements between France and Mo- naco and the Operations Account countries are f ree of exchange control; purchases of French and foreign securities abroad and the corresponding outward t rans fe rs of resident-owned capital are free; capital receipts f rom foreign countries are permitted freely. Capital assets abroad of resi- dents are not subject to repatriation. The t rans fer abroad of non-resident-owned fund s, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with a registered bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobi- lieres); French securities held under a foreign dos- sier can also be sold in France, and the sales pro- ceeds can be t rans fe r red abroad. Foreign securities held in France by nonresidents must be deposited with a registered bank; French se- curities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign se- curities held in France by residents must be de- posited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French registered bank or broker. Subject to compliance with the special regula- tions concerning inward and outward direct in- vestment, residents may purchase abroad French and foreign securities on stock exchanges and se- curities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange through registered banks. French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either held or sold on a French stock exchange. Correspon- dingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whe ther acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may import them into France through a registered bank and hold them in a foreign dossier or sell them on a French stock exchange. The exchange control regulations include con- trol over inward direct investments in existing French firms. The basis for control over foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 FRANCE direct investments is Decree No. 89-938 of Decem- ber 29, 1989, which applies to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the Operations Account and Monaco. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Any participation leading foreign investors to hold more than one third (20 percent before the decree of December 29, 1989) of the capital is considered as direct investment. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, the threshold is reduced to 20 percent of the capital, but it applies only to each individual foreign par- ticipation and not to the total of foreign participa- tions. To determine whether a company is foreign controlled, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and the Budget may also take into account any special relationships resulting f rom stock options, loans, patents and licenses, and commercial contracts. Foreign direct investments in existing French firms generally require prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy, Finance and the Budget. Investments in real estate (except development companies and vineyards) and, when they do not exceed F 10 million, in hotels, restaurants, and retail trade and services, are exempt f rom prior declaration. It is also the case for increases of eq- uity capital in a company already controlled by a foreign investor and for complementary participa- tions in a company in which an investor already holds more than two thirds of the capital share. The period during which the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance and the Budget may suspend the acquisition by non-EC investors of a participation in an existing French f irm is 30 days. Any non-EC investment can take place freely a f ter this period if the Minister of Economy, Finance and the Budget has not formally notified the investor of his deci- sion to suspend the acquisition. Foreign companies controlled by EC residents are free to take over any participation in the capital of a French company, and they are subject only to prior notification to the Treasury. Unless the Min- istry of Economy, Finance and the Budget for- mally communicates to the investor, within 15 days of the receipt of the notification, that he cannot be considered as controlled by EC resi- dents, the investor can proceed with his acquisition. EC-controlled companies can request that they receive the fu ll benefit of the EC status on a perma- nent basis, if their total turnover exceeds F 1 bil- lion a year and if they have completed at least three fiscal years of operations. The permanent acquisition of the EC status eliminates all prior notification requirements of an investor. Regardless of the nationality of a nonresident investor, the Minister of Economy, Finance and the Budget is entitled to issue a finding within one month to prohibit a participation if public health, order, security, or defense is considered to be in danger. Foreign direct investments, whether or not they have been subject to prior notification, must be reported to the Ministry of Economy, Finance and the Budget within 20 days of their fu lf i l lmen t. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct in- vestment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of its occurrence. Foreign direct investments by residents are not restricted, but must be reported to the Ministry of Economy, Finance and the Budget within 20 days if they exceed F 5 million. The liquidation of direct invest- ments abroad is free f rom any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds are re- ported to the Ministry of Economy, Finance and the Budget if they exceed F 5 million. Foreign issues on the French capital market, except issues originating in EC countries, are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance and the Budget.5 Exempt f rom au- thorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the French Government, and (2) shares similar to se- curities that are already officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad in French f rancs or foreign currencies by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, is unre- stricted. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as these activities relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. All restrictions on lending in French francs to nonresidents were abolished, effec t ive March 9, 1989. Limitations for the purposes of exchange control on the foreign exchange posi- tions of commercial banks were also abolished as of June 1, 1989. Registered banks are f ree to lend foreign currency to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, in- cluding treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private d ra f ts. 5Effec t ive January 1,1990, the exemption f rom prior authori- zation was extended to residents of all OECD countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 177 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there before November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents and nonresidents have free access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (de- fined as gold having a fineness or a weight that is recognized in the gold market) into or f rom the territory of continental France are now governed by the regulations applying to ordinary goods. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a sim- ple declaration, as are imports and exports of man- ufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. Most gold coins are traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coins are not subject to value-added tax. Im- ports of monetary gold, except gold imported by the Bank of France, are subject to customs du ty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coins are subject to capital gains tax. Changes During 1990 Administration of Control January 1. All remaining exchange controls were lifted, allowing residents to hold accounts in any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) Capital January 1. Firms based in OECD countries were permitted to issue securities on the French capital market. January 15. Administrative procedures for the ac- quisition of existing French enterprises were sim- plified and placed on a lapse-of-time basis so as to expedite authorization procedures when these are still required. Authorization procedures would con- tinue to apply to companies from outside the Euro- pean Community for investments exceeding F10 mil- lion. Investment applications would be considered to be approved if the Ministry of Economy, Finance and the Budget does not object within one month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,l which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange mar- ket, and include a commission. Commissions are levied at the rate of 0.25 percent on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and international public agencies, and pri- vate entities granted exemption by the Ministry of Finance, Budget and Participations because of the nature of their activities. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Financial Institutions in the Ministry of Finance, Budget and Participations su- pervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, Budget and Participations, who has partly dele- gated his approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All ex- !The CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, and Equa- torial Guinea. change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermedi- aries —that is, the Postal Administration and autho- rized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresi- dent accounts of BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments In general, imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities; however, imports of refined vegetable oil from these countries require prior approval. All imports from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to an authorization to import (when the value is more than CFAF 500,000). Quan- titative restrictions are maintained only on imports of sugar, vegetable oil, soap, mineral water, and cement. For perishables and spare parts, an antic- ipatory authorization is given to simplify admin- istrative procedures. Imports from countries out- side the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products are subject to licensing, 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 179 but, with a few exceptions2 that are established by Ministerial Order, import authorizations are granted liberally. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined veg- etable oil are suspended except when they originate from UDEAC member countries. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through autho- rized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authorizations duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Finance, Budget and Participations (Directorate of Financial Institu- tions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invis- ibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income ac- cruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CEAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign coun- tries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC bank notes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Trav- elers to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French bank notes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for chil- dren under 10 years) for tourist travel; for business 2Currently totaling about 30 items, including cement, ham, mineral water, plastic goods, sugar, batteries, and refined vege- table oil. travel the amount of such bank notes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected without limit through the banking or postal systems. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require authorization, irrespective of des- tination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received within 150 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; cap- ital transfers to all other countries require the ap- proval of the Directorate of Financial Institutions and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign se- curities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 GABON transactions themselves, not to payments or re- ceipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the con- trol measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance, Budget and Participations, unless they take the form of a capital increase result- ing from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments must also be declared to the Ministry, unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a di- rect investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months of receipt of the declaration, the Minis- try may request the postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days following each opera- tion. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Ex- empt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, Bud- get and Participations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment abroad for which prior ap- proval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transac- tions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CEAF 50 million for any one borrower. How- ever, the contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the opera- tion, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches of subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance, Budget and Par- ticipations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by regis- tered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one lender. However, making loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Fi- nancial Institutions within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of July 6, 1989, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether do- mestic or foreign, is granted, under certain condi- tions, reduced duties and taxes on specified in- come. In addition to fiscal privileges, the Code provides for four categories of preferential treat- ment. Eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given prior- ity in the allocation of imports, public credit, and government contracts. Foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nations for an amount equivalent to at least 10 percent of the companies' capital. Non- Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. 3Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. including those made by companies in Gabon that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 181 this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) im- ports and exports of manufactured articles contain- ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or ij i i. j \i i exempted from licensing and authorization require- ments are subject to customs declaration, ^u -^ . 1Qon THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi. Commercial banks are free to transact among themselves, with the Central Bank, or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the par- ties to these transactions. The Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG) conducts a fixing session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the commercial banks during which the exchange rate is established for customs valuation purposes for the following week. On December 31, 1990, the midpoint exchange rate of the dalasi in the inter- bank market was D 7.49 per US$1, and the exchange rate for customs valuation purposes was D 7.37 per US$1. Since April 1990, foreign exchange bureaus have been allowed to operate. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Finance and Economic Affairs, with the day- to-day administration of exchange control being car- ried out by the CBG. However, with the suspension of the Foreign Exchange Control Act, controls are not in force. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in dalasis or in any convertible cur- rency from nonresident sources. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), and also Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Si- erra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. External Accounts Accounts denominated in dalasis held by resi- dents of other countries are designated external accounts. Such accounts may be opened without reference to the CBG when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holders' source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Desig- nated external accounts may be credited with pay- ments from residents of other countries, with trans- fers from other external accounts, and with the pro- ceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for any payment to residents of other countries, for trans- fers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources for social, health, or se- curity reasons. All other imports are freely permit- ted under open general licenses. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10 percent of the c.i.f. value; imports by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charita- ble organizations are exempted from this tax. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Visitors to The Gambia are not required to declare foreign currency in their possession. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization by the Forestry Department. The exportation of all other goods can generally be made without individual licenses, if settlement is made in accordance with procedures laid down by the CBG. Export proceeds must be received through a commercial bank within six months of the date of exportation in a convertible foreign currency and sold to commercial banks or through transfers from a designated external account. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no restriction on the importation of for- eign currency notes or Gambian bank notes. Capital Inward transfers for the purpose of direct equity investment are not restricted but must be reported to the CBG. Prior approval from the CBG is required in order for residents to accept loans in foreign currency from any source. Overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and international mis- sions in The Gambia up to reasonable amounts. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 183 Loans and advances by commercial banks to non- resident companies are subject to the authorization of the CBG. Foreign exchange working balances held by the commercial banks are subject to limits set by the CBG; amounts held in excess of these limits must be offered for sale in the interbank mar- ket or offered to the CBG. These limits must be observed on a daily basis, and the amount held must be reported weekly to the CBG. In addition, two parastatals (The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) and The Gambia Telecommunication Company (GamTel)) are permitted temporarily to maintain limited working balances in foreign ex- change. The limits must be observed on a weekly basis, and the amounts held must be reported monthly to the CBG. Any amount in excess of the limit must be surrendered, by the GPMB to the Central Bank of The Gambia and by GamTel to a commercial bank in The Gambia. Gold The importation of gold coins and bullion requires the approval of the CBG. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement April 17. The establishment of foreign exchange bureaus was permitted. Exports and Export Proceeds February 20. The monopoly of the GPMB on the exportation of groundnuts was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany1 participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Lux- embourg, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accor- dance with this agreement, Germany maintains the spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Spanish peseta and the pound sterling, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bun- desbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1990, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Deutsche Mark Upper Limit Lower Limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas 4.959 26.810 30.495 2.740 0.1367 90.770 3.132 1.633 4.740 25.630 29.150 2.619 0.1307 86.780 2.778 1.449 In principle, interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies but they may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dol- lar. The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits, but they intervene periodically to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign ex- change market of Frankfurt am Main.2 On Decem- ber 31,1990, the official middle rate for the U.S. dol- JIn this survey, the Federal Republic of Germany after unifica- tion is referred to as Germany. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pound sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. lar was DM 1.4940 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange contracts involving both com- mercial and financial transactions may be negoti- ated freely by residents and nonresidents in all lead- ing convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market, and all transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of im- ports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Trans- portation, the Federal Office for Economics, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and For- estry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organiza- tion, and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Germany notified the Fund, on August 23, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and to persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 10,370 statis- tical positions. Their treatment is as follows: com- modities corresponding to 115 positions are subject to import licensing when being imported from countries in Country List C.3 The importation of some 1,363 textile items (under the arrangements regarding international trade in textiles) and of cer- tain steel items is governed by bilateral agreements 3Countries in List C are Albania, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Countries in List A/B are those of the former OEEC area and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 185 of the European Economic Community (EEC) with various supplier countries. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) and from Aus- tria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the European Community (EC) covers 2,054 statistical items; most of these are sub- ject to variable import levies, which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Com- modity fu tures may be dealt in freely. Most transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; and transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine lia- bility insurance and aviation insurance, except pas- senger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require license. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance through the delivery of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture to residents of List C countries (see footnote 3), if such assistance is for the production of goods whose exportation requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. Ger- man and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. All resident banks, includ- ing legally independent foreign-owned banks, may lead-manage issues of foreign bonds denominated in deutsche mark; the right of foreign-owned Ger- man banks to lead-manage foreign deutsche mark bond issues is contingent, however, on reciprocal lead-management rights of German-owned banks in the home countries of the foreign-owned banks operating in Germany. Domestic and foreign se- curities of all types may be imported and exported freely. Following the changes in regulations beginning March 12, 1981, no restrictions are applied on the sale of German money market papers and fixed- interest securities by residents to nonresidents. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, pur- chases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. There are no lim- itations on the disposal of legacies located in Ger- many and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Resi- dents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to minimum reserve require- ments on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the minimum reserve ratios at the end of 1990 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, that is, 12.1 percent, 4.95 percent, and 4.15 percent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respec- tively. The principal exemption is for banks' foreign currency borrowings that are reinvested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfurt. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coins, unworked gold, and gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 14 percent. In the case of imports of gold coins on which the as- sessment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 GERMANY value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 per- cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and from customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but i j j j ,. x i .u L • j! u j. under certain conditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bullion effected on gold exchanges between brokers who are admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and ex- ports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized, & e 10on ^u ^ . Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi. The exchange rate of the cedi is determined in an inter- bank market supported by weekly wholesale auc- tions conducted by the Bank of Ghana. The ex- change rate determined at the auction is being used for official valuation purposes, but does not neces- sarily apply to transactions among authorized dealers, or between authorized dealers and their customers. At the auction, authorized dealers may bid either on behalf of their customers or for their own accounts. To be eligible for the auction, bids must be above US$500. Rates are quoted for certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Rates for certain inconvertible cur- rencies of the West African region, including the Nigerian naira, are also quoted daily but are only applied to transactions under the West African Clearing House arrangement. The other quoted in- convertible currencies are the Gambian dalasi, the Guinean franc, the Sierra Leonean leone, the Guinea-Bissau peso, and the Mauritanian ouguiya. The authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian cur- rency for any foreign currency. On December 31, 1990, the exchange rate in the auction market was C 345 = US$1. With effect from February 1, 1988, foreign ex- change bureaus were allowed to be opened by any person, bank, or institution licensed by the Bank of Ghana. According to the regulations, foreign ex- change bureaus may purchase traveler's checks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and may pur- chase and sell currency notes only in Canadian dol- lars, deutsche mark, French (and CFA) francs, Jap- anese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In practice, however, traveler's checks in other foreign currencies and other foreign cur- rency notes are also transacted in this market. Sellers of foreign exchange to the bureaus are not required to identify their sources of foreign ex- change. Each foreign exchange bureau is free to quote buying and selling rates. All bona fide im- ports and approved services are allowed to be funded through the bureaus. On December 31, 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zea- land dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 1990, the average buying and selling exchange rates quoted by the bureaus in terms of U.S. dollars were C 340 and C 355, respectively, per US$1. International organizations, embassies, and simi- lar institutions are not permitted to transfer funds into Ghana through any foreign exchange bureau or to carry out foreign exchange transactions under the foreign exchange bureau scheme. A processing fee of 5 percent is levied on pur- chases and repurchases of foreign exchange related to travel, and on exchange purchases for education, medical treatment abroad, and private outward transfers. There are no arrangements for forward exchange market, currency swaps, or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt-service payments. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports in the Min- istry of Trade is empowered to prohibit or regulate all imports. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. All approved foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and resi- dents of other countries may be made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transac- tions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payments agreements must be re- ceived in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents —for example, certain types of capital proceeds—may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. 2Ghana maintains operative bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 GHANA These accounts may be debited for authorized pay- ments, including the purchase of approved securities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident account status is granted to embas- sies, legations, consulates, and offices of high com- missioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staffs. This facility is also available to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, as well as to non- resident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other Foreign Ac- counts, and with the proceeds from sales of convert- ible currency. They may be debited for inward pay- ments, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresident Accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." They may be credited with authorized outward pay- ments by residents, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral pay- ments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than re- stricted currencies. They may be debited for autho- rized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clear- ing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents —for example, certain types of capital proceeds—may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized pay- ments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All imports, except for four categories (beer and stout, cigarettes, cement pipes, and roofing sheets of as- bestos and fiber) and those prohibited for nontrade reasons, are allowed. Effective January 14, 1989, all import-licensing requirements were abolished; im- porters are now required to file an import declara- tion form through the authorized banks for statisti- cal purposes only and without being subject to approval. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Pro- curement Agency, or, for public sector imports, the Ghana Supply Commission. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through authorized Ghanaian banks, and normally on a sight basis. For imports valued at more than US$5,000 (f.o.b.), authorized banks are not allowed to make payments against letters of credit or bank drafts unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by international agencies with respect to the goods and unless they verify the price, quality, and quan- tity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Payments for invis- ibles related to authorized imports are not re- stricted. Most foreign exchange purchases for invis- ible payments are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent ad valorem, with the exception of invisible payments relating to imports. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to over- seas bankers for import payments are generally au- thorized. Commission payments on imports are permitted up to a limit of 3 percent of f .o .b. value. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. With the exception of com- panies financed with locally raised capital, nonresi- dent companies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; until February 1,1989, however, transfers of profits were being authorized only on a limited basis. Since Feb- ruary 1, 1989, all bona fide requests for transfers of profits and dividends have been eligible for funding through the foreign exchange auction market. The transfer of profits by companies that have been fi- nanced with locally raised capital is not permitted. Nonresident travelers may take out any unused foreign currency that they brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, as are exports of iron and steel scrap. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Board, and diamonds are exported through the Precious Metal Marketing Corporation. Exports of cocoa are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export pro- ceeds, on the one hand, and payments to farmers together with the Cocoa Board's operational costs, on the other, if the proceeds exceed the payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 189 With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate in full the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; pro- ceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35 percent of their export proceeds. However, the retention ratio is 45 percent for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 20 percent for log exporters, and 2 percent for the Cocoa Board. The retention scheme does not apply to exports of residual oil and electricity. However, receipts from the export of elec- tricity are not required to be surrendered to the Bank of Ghana. Retained earnings were tradi- tionally held in accounts abroad for financing essen- tial imports. On April 28,1989, a new procedure for the repatriation of retained earnings to Ghana was introduced. Under the new procedure, foreign ex- change retention entitlements are credited to the exporters' foreign exchange accounts with banks located in Ghana. Provided that payments from the foreign exchange accounts of exporters are sup- ported by relevant documents, retained export earnings may be sold at the foreign exchange bu- reaus or be used to import goods through a bank, to purchase airline tickets, or for foreign travel, for medical services or educational expenses abroad, and for any other approved invisible payments. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be im- ported freely. Repurchases of foreign exchange ac- quired for the purpose of foreign travel are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent. Capital Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the In- vestment Code. Under the Investment Code of 1981, approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays and initial capital allowances are also avail- able for such investments. The Code stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropri- ated. Where there is a dispute over the amount of compensation, the dispute is settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation—for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Ghanaian nationals are held in blocked, non-interest-bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Transfers of such funds are being effected gradually. Under a supplementary Investment Code issued in July 1985, incentives are provided to promote foreign investments that promise to be net foreign exchange earners. The main features of the 1981 and 1985 codes, which offer incentives and guaran- tees to encourage foreign investments in areas other than petroleum and mining (already covered by a Minerals Code), are as follows: (1) exemption from customs duties in respect of importation of plant, machinery, and equipment; (2) more favorable de- preciation or capital allowances; (3) permission to operate an external account in which at least 25 per- cent of the investing company's foreign exchange earnings may be retained for procuring machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, for servicing of debt, and for transfers of dividends and profits; (4) guarantee for the remittance of foreign capital in the event of sale or liquidation; and (5) protection against expropriation. The minimum requirement of investment capital to qualify under the codes is US$60,000 for joint ventures with a Ghanaian partner and US$100,000 for enterprises that are wholly foreign owned. All outgoing capital movements must be ap- proved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evi- dence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are ap- proved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds re- presenting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the sav- ings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capi- tal is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of the real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident com- panies controlled by nonresidents require the indi- vidual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in se- curities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad. In respect of portfolio invest- ments, residents must obtain approval for any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 GHANA switch in their holdings of securities issued by non- residents. Private sector and commercial bank bor- rowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits for machinery and equipment valued at US$100,000 or more; foreign borrowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to cer- tain government guidelines. Lending to nonresi- dents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval and are normally limited to 60 days. Under a system of external accounts for debt- service payments introduced in 1980 to enable export-oriented industries to receive external aid, such industries are allowed to operate foreign ex- change accounts (in addition to their regular reten- tion accounts) with funds earmarked from export earnings for the purpose of debt-service payments. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Committee on Suppliers' Credits and the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana; the latter also monitors receipts and pay- ments out of these accounts. Such accounts have been established for the diamond sector as well as for the fishing and timber companies financed with suppliers' credits. tection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on bullion, partly worked gold, and other gold is levied at a uniform rate of 30 percent. The gold mines export their output in semirefined form. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement April 27. The foreign exchange bureau market and the auction exchange market were unified in the context of an interbank exchange market operated by a weekly wholesale auction conducted by the Central Bank. Authorized dealer banks and foreign exchange bureaus, meeting certain eligibility re- quirements, were allowed to bid at the weekly auc- tion for their own accounts. Authorized dealers were allowed to trade in foreign exchange among themselves or with their customers, provided that foreign exchange so traded is not subject to sur- render requirements. Gold Payments for Invisibles Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Pro- March 31. The legal obligation for importers to arrange insurance with domestic companies on im- ports shipped to Ghana were eliminated. April 27. The restrictions on remittances of in- come of non-Ghanaians were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The Greek authorities operate a managed float for the drachma. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, the main intervention currency, and other currencies1 are determined during the daily fixing session, in which the Bank of Greece (the central bank) and the authorized commercial banks participate. In the do- mestic spot exchange market, the commercial banks quote their own rates. On December 31, 1990, buy- ing and selling rates in the interbank market were Dr 157.152 and Dr 158.098 respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks may levy a commission on all foreign exchange transactions on the domestic for- ward exchange market. Forward cover is extended only to commercial transactions carried out by resi- dents for a maturity period of up to 3 months for imports and 12 months for exports; the exchange rates applied by the commercial banks in these cases are based on those determined daily by the Bank of Greece. Forward rates are also quoted to nonresident banks, provided that relevant contracts involve ECU-related transactions for a maturity period of up to three months. Exchange risk is un- dertaken by the Bank of Greece. Greece is a member of the European Monetary System (EMS). The drachma is included in the ECU basket, but Greece does not participate in the ex- change rate mechanism of the EMS. Administration of Control Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the Bank of Greece. Commercial banks are au- thorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of imports and exports. In almost all cases, they automatically grant approval for imports and prepare the documentation for exports accord- ing to exchange regulations. The commercial banks are also authorized to undertake transactions in for- eign exchange for invisibles and capital. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through deposit accounts in convertible drachmas. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, and European Currency Units (ECUs). Accounts in Foreign Currency and Convertible Drachmas Accounts in Foreign Currencies. These accounts may be maintained by nonresident persons and entities, foreigners of Greek origin residing abroad, Greek nationals residing and working abroad (in- cluding seamen), Greek residents, and nonprofit private legal entities with a head office in Greece. These accounts may be credited with foreign ex- change brought into Greece and with foreign bank notes brought into Greece and declared upon entry. Principal and interest on these accounts are freely transferable abroad. Savings and time deposits may be opened for up to 12 months. The Bank of Greece sets an upper limit on interest on these accounts, with the exception of the rate on residents' deposits, which is fixed by the Bank of Greece, and of the rate on nonresidents' deposits, which is negotiable. Accounts in Convertible Drachmas. Nonresidents may open sight and time deposits in convertible drachmas. The interest rate on time deposits for a period of up to six months is negotiable. The com- mercial banks operating in Greece are allowed to lend to credit institutions abroad in convertible drachmas in amounts not exceeding their total de- posits in convertible drachmas. The maturity of such loans can be up to six months, and the interest rate is negotiable. Blocked Accounts. Claims of non-EC (European Community) residents denominated in drachmas that are not derived from imported foreign currency must be deposited in Blocked Accounts. The with- drawal of funds from these accounts is permitted only with the approval of the Bank of Greece. Pay- ments abroad from these accounts are allowed with the approval of the Bank of Greece. Imports and Import Payments Approval for imports is granted automatically, before or after shipment of goods, by the commer- cial banks, and it implies that the required amount of foreign exchange will be made available. Special import licenses are required for textiles and iron and steel products that come from low-cost countries; these products are under surveillance according to EC quotas. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as medicines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Settlement of the value of im- ported goods must take place within 60 days of the 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 GREECE date of arrival at the first Greek port; this provision, however, is not enforced. Import payments are not subject to official regula- tions; in almost all cases they are effected on the basis of agreements between the contracting parties. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are granted automatically for expenses incidental to authorized transactions. Residents traveling abroad for family reasons or tourism are entitled to the equivalent of ECU 1,200 for each trip to EC countries and Cyprus and to the equivalent of US$700 for each trip to all other coun- tries. International credit cards may be used to pay for expenses incurred abroad up to the equivalent of ECU 300 a year. In addition to this allowance, trav- elers participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Travelers may also take with them a maximum of Dr 10,000 in Greek bank notes. Foreign exchange for business travel is allowed up to the equivalent of US$2,000 a trip without restric- tion on the number of trips that may be taken in a year. International business credit cards may also be used to pay for tourist expenses incurred abroad, such as hotels, tickets, car hire, and conference and seminar fees, without limit. For medical treatment abroad, the required foreign exchange is made available. For studies abroad, the amount covering living expenses is granted; in addition, foreign ex- change is granted to cover tuition fees, books, etc. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends are governed by the regulations that are applied to capi- tal transfers to Greece (see section on Capital, be- low). Remittances for family maintenance and earn- ings by foreign workers are permitted, subject to documentary requirements regarding proof of need and source of income. Foreign banks operating in Greece are permitted to repatriate their profits, irre- spective of the nature of their operations. Nonresidents leaving Greece may take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of US$1,000 within a year of their arrival in Greece, as well as traveler's checks and other means of payment in their name irrespective of amount; they may also take out Dr 20,000 in Greek bank notes. Larger amounts in foreign bank notes can be taken out no later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which the nonresident entered Greece, provided that they were declared upon entry into Greece. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment of the goods. In special cases, the authorities may extend this time limit by approving time settlement of the value of exports. Export goods are not subject to the value-added tax. Exporters are allowed to maintain 10 percent of their proceeds in foreign currency accounts with banks operating in Greece, provided that their earned ex- port proceeds in the previous calendar year exceed US$100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings representing pay- ments for services must be surrendered within 45 days of the date of receipt. Earnings from ocean- going shipping are exempt from the surrender re- quirements, but shipowners must cover their dis- bursements and expenses in Greece by converting foreign exchange into drachmas. Greek residents may bring in any amount of for- eign exchange, but must declare it upon entry if they wish to take it out on their next departure and not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which they entered Greece; they may also bring in a maximum of Dr 10,000 in bank notes. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, provided they do not intend to take out amounts in excess of the equivalent of US$1,000. Traveler's checks and other means of payment in a traveler's name are not subject to a limit. Travelers may also bring in a maximum of Dr 100,000 in Greek bank notes. Capital Direct investments in Greece undertaken by non- EC residents in accordance with the Act of the Gov- ernor of the Bank of Greece 825/1986 are subject to verification, and the repatriation of the liquidation proceeds and the exportation of the profits, divi- dends, interest, and amortization of funds are free. Investments in real estate in Greece by non-EC resi- dents are permitted, and the proceeds of liquidation can be repatriated af ter five years following the con- version of the foreign currency into drachmas. Direct investments by residents of Greece in EC countries are permitted. Investments in securities issued by the European Community and the Euro- pean Investment Bank are permitted up to a limit of ECU 75 million a year. Direct investments and investments in real estate or in securities by residents of Greece in non-EC countries require prior approval. Greek firms in manufacturing, mining, and hotels and those in the services sector are allowed to borrow in foreign exchange from banks, foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 193 legal persons, and individuals residing abroad without prior approval, provided that the maturity of the loans is at least 12 months. For exporting firms, the maturity of the loans can be less than 12 months, provided that the firms service their loans with their export earnings. Bank and nonbank loans from abroad, which do not fall into the above cate- gories and do not qualify as direct investments, are subject to prior approval. Transfers abroad of the liquidation proceeds of listed and unlisted securities, as well as treasury bills and long-term government bonds and bonds of public sector entities, are permitted, provided that foreign currency was used to purchase them. The transfer abroad of the liquidation proceeds of un- listed securities by non-EC residents is subject to prior approval. Legislative Decree 2687/1953, Presidential Decree 207/1987, and Act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece 825/1986 govern direct investments. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sovereigns from the Bank of Greece through licensed stock- brokers at a price set by the Bank of Greece. These gold coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before Decem- ber 22, 1965 may sell them without any formality to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in for- eign exchange require a special license; licenses are normally issued to importers for distribution to jew- elers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported for other than commercial purposes when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved except when gold bars or coins are brought in by travelers and declared upon entry, in which case they may be re-exported after being approved by the Bank of Greece. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) Payments for Invisibles September 20. The exchange allowance for per- sonal travel to EC countries was increased from the equivalent of ECU 1,000 to ECU 1,200 a trip. Capital March 27. Permission to borrow in foreign ex- change without prior approval has been extended to firms in the services sector. August 20. Restrictions were lifted on the repatria- tion of the liquidation proceeds of capital and on the exportation of profits, dividends, interest, and amortization of funds, in respect of investments in Greece undertaken by non-EC residents in accor- dance with the Act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece 825/1986. November 12. Greek firms that are allowed to bor- row in foreign exchange would also be permitted to borrow from foreign legal entities and individuals residing abroad without prior approval, provided that the maturity of the loans is at least 12 months. For exporting firms, the maturity of loans can be less than 12 months, provided that the firms service their loans with their export earnings. Changes During 1991 Capital January 14. The limit on purchases of securities issued by the European Community and the Euro- pean Investment Bank was increased to ECU 75 million a year from ECU 50 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 29, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with com- mercial banks were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respec- tively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. An exchange tax of 5 percent is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of inputs by local manufac- turers certified by the Industrial Development Cor- poration, payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs, remittances to cover the expenses of university education abroad and expenses related to medical services, transactions of the Grenada De- velopment Bank with the European Investment Bank, and transactions by any person or corporate body approved under the Hotels Ordinance. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control, which is administered by the Ministry of Finance, applies to all countries. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the au- thority to approve some import payments and cer- tain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Fi- nance administers trade control. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East- 1The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from External Accounts. Settlements with residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of Finance. These accounts are main- tained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign cur- rencies, with transfers from other External Ac- counts, with bank interest (payable on External Ac- counts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to resi- dents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any over- drafts require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to open Foreign Currency Accounts without referring to the Ministry of Finance. Such accounts may be freely debited but can be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported. Imports of the following products are prohibited: industrial gas; cigarettes; processed pork products; curry powder; war toys; diothene plastic sheets and corrugated cardboard for the banana industry; solar water heaters; electric accumulators for automobiles; and aluminum windows, doors, and associated items. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 195 Certain other commodities are subject to quantita- tive restrictions and require an import license. Payments for documented imports are free of re- strictions. Payments for other authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs war- rants) to the Ministry of Finance. Advance pay- ments for imports also require prior approval from this Ministry. Imports of equipment and spare parts are exempt from import duties. Also exempt are imports by the commodity associations in cases where imports are intended for quality improvements in the growing or packaging of bananas, cocoa, and nutmeg. Im- ports not exempt from customs duty are subject to a value-added tax of 20 percent of c . i .f. value, with the exception of imports of raw materials for use in local manufacturing of finished products, which are subject to an 8 percent value-added tax. Imports of certain basic consumer items, brewery products, and cigarettes from countries outside the CARICOM are subject to special surcharges of 10 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent, respectively. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of outward remittances for education, medical treatment, gifts, family mainte- nance, profits, dividends, insurance premiums, proceeds from sales of local property, royalties, and management fees, payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers to provide basic alloca- tions of foreign exchange for a few types of pay- ments. These include foreign travel (for which up to EC$5,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$10,000 a person for business travel), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and life insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation nor- mally are approved by the Ministry of Finance, pro- vided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tourism in ex- cess of EC$5,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not de- ducted from the travel allocation. Nonresident trav- elers may export any foreign currency they pre- viously brought in, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the exportation of cer- tain goods to any destination. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export proceeds in for- eign currencies are surrendered within a certain period after the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins in Eastern Caribbean cur- rency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certifi- cates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depos- itory in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which is normally granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain al- lowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration purposes. The Ministry of Finance will also consider transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad. Nonresidents may make direct investment in Gre- nada with exchange control approval. The remit- tance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance. Nonresi- dents may acquire real estate in Grenada for private purposes with funds in foreign currency; local cur- rency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Min- istry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is re- quired for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresi- dents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by au- thorized dealers to finance their domestic opera- tions requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 Gold GRENADA Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not per- mitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The Ministry of Finance issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not normally permitted. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments Understanding was reached on the General Agreement on the Common External Tariff (CET) of the Caribbean Common Market. The Government of Grenada would begin to implement the CET in early 1991 following the approval of the CET by the legislature and the agreement on tariff schedules with the other members of the CARICOM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal. Guatemala maintains a unified exchange system under which the exchange rate of the quetzal is allowed to fluctuate within a narrow band. In November 1990, a base rate of Q 4.95 = US$1 was set, around which bids were allowed to fluctuate within Q 0.05. If the bid rate is consistently close to the upper or lower limit, then the base rate is adjusted by Q 0.05. Adjustments are made every three weeks. The buying rate is determined by the base rate minus Q 0.05. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Guatemala in terms of the U.S. dollar were Q 4.95 = US$1 and Q 5.05 = US$1, respectively. Certain foreign exchange operations of the Bank of Guatemala (e.g., servicing of its external debt disbursed before June 6, 1986), which have no eco- nomic effect, are conducted at an accounting ex- change rate of Q 1 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain currencies other than the U.S. dollar1 are officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. The central bank does not issue new exchange rate guarantees, but it honors guarantees granted before the end of October 1989. There are no other arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Transi- tional Law on the Foreign Exchange Regime. For- eign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are made through banks authorized by the Monetary Board. Exports of goods must be registered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guarantee repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherland guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions with other Central American countries are settled in U.S. dollars or in domestic currency, in accordance with special payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are unrestricted and do not require registration or a license. Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for imports of maps of Guatemala, coffee beans and coffee plants, explosives, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, tallow, and a few other goods. Imports of cocoa are prohibited from all sources. Foreign exchange for import payments may be purchased at the inter- bank exchange market rate in effect at the public sale of foreign exchange. The fund for public sale of foreign exchange is established by the Bank of Guatemala and consists of 75 percent of the total amount of foreign exchange by banks authorized to trade in foreign exchange. Petroleum is imported at a preferential rate of exchange. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Invisible transactions relating to travel outside the country, school fees, study expenses, international credit card payments, and others are permitted without restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, including the export of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special ex- port license) and silver in any form. Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coins that are legal tender in foreign countries. Exporters must obtain an export permit issued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Guatemalan customs can authorize shipment of the merchandise; the granting of export permits is con- tingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank within 45 days of the date of issuance (this period may be extended to 90 days). 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 GUATEMALA In the case of exports to Central America, there are clearing arrangements among the central banks to settle payments in their own national cur- rencies, Derecho de Importation Centroamericana (DICA), U.S. dollars, or barter. Export taxes on all products were abolished in March 1990. Capital All capital transactions take place without limita- tions. All investment by foreign or foreign- controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petro- leum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala may buy and sell gold coins and bullion either directly or through the banks and is entitled to require the surrender, di- rectly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance with the directives of the Monetary Board. The ex- portation of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement The exchange rate system was modified fre- quently during 1990. In February, a system of a narrow band replaced the free float system that had been in effect since November 1989. In April, a floating system was reintroduced; in June, an "auc- tion" system with limits on bidding rates came into effect, but was replaced in August by a "Dutch" auction system. In September, the "Dutch" auction system was replaced by a combination of occasional "Dutch" auctions and certain limits on accounts that were allowed to be bid in the public sale of foreign exchange. Under a system introduced in November, the buying rate was fixed, whereas the selling rate was determined through an "auction" system that is restricted to a narrow band around a base auction rate. Exports and Export Proceeds April 5. The Special Export Tax Law was abolished (Decree 23-86 of the Congress of the Republic). August 21. Legislation requiring individual ex- porters to pay 2 percent of the local currency equiv- alent of the export value as withholding for income tax was enacted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Franc. Guinea maintains a floating exchange rate system, under which the exchange rate against the U.S. dol- lar is set in weekly fixing sessions. The private sector and public enterprises, through the intermediation of commercial banks, may sell and purchase foreign exchange for all import and invisible payments, ex- cept for limitations placed on purchases for tourist travel and the transfer abroad of salaries by nonresi- dent workers. All other public sector transactions take place at the latest fixing rate. The exchange rate of the Guinean franc is quoted in terms of the U.S. dollar; the rates for other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of their U.S. dollar rates in inter- national markets. The exchange rate for the CFA franc results from the relationship between this cur- rency and the French franc. Settlements under the bilateral payments agreement with the People's Re- public of China are effected in renminbi at the rate resulting from the current GF/U.S. dollar and U.S. dollar/yuan rates. On December 29, 1990, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was GF 680 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, which has delegated its authority to the commercial banks with respect to (1) the approval of import forms (descriptifs d'importation) and import application forms (demandes descriptives d'importa- tion) for amounts below US$200,000; (2) allocation of foreign exchange to travelers holding foreign air- line tickets (travelers holding tickets issued by Com- pagnie nationale air guinee must apply to the Central Bank for their travel allowances); and (3) management of Foreign Currency Accounts opened in the name of nonresidents. All settle- ments with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Exchange De- partment of the Central Bank. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies prescribed by, and through accounts estab- lished under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with other countries are made in designated convertible cur- rencies quoted by the Central Bank. All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts The opening of deposit accounts in foreign cur- rency by residents at the domestic commercial banks is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Cur- rencies, and Nonresident Accounts in Guinean Francs. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Convertible Accounts Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be opened by residents and nonresidents. Such ac- counts are to be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irrespective of its origin. Exporters may hold up to 25 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds in convertible Guinean francs. Such ac- counts may be debited freely and converted by com- mercial banks into foreign currencies without prior authorization from the Central Bank. These ac- counts carry an interest premium of 2 percentage points over deposit accounts in Guinean francs. Imports and Import Payments Almost all products may be freely imported into Guinea (except armaments, ammunition, and nar- cotics). Petroleum products may be imported only by the public sector. Mining companies may, how- ever, import crude oil directly. All imports of less then US$200,000 require au- thorization, which is granted by the commercial 1 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Peo- ple's Republic of China, Cuba, and Viet Nam; all agreements are inoperative. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 GUINEA banks on behalf of the Central Bank. Two types of authorization are given: (1) imports with access to foreign exchange provided at rates determined dur- ing weekly fixing sessions; and (2) imports fi- nanced with importers' own foreign exchange re- sources (autorisation sans achat de devises). To obtain authorization, importers are required to fill out either an import form (descriptif d''importation) (for imports valued at less than US$5,000) or an import application request form (demande descriptive d'importation) (for imports valued between US$5,000 and US$200,000), on which they must provide infor- mation on products to be imported, including prices and quantities, and the terms of financing. For imports with access to the auction market, authorization is given only after the prices and quality of products and the terms of financing (for import credits) are verified. Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted through commercial banks at the weekly fixing sessions. Certain imports are effected outside the auction system. This category comprises goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and mainly covers imports by four "mixed-economy companies" (the Friguia Company; the Guinea Bauxite Company; AREDOR, the diamond company; and AUG, the gold company) and foreign embassies. All products are subject to a 10 percent turnover tax, custom duties (DFE) of 8 percent, and custom charges (DDE) of 7 percent, with the following ex- ceptions: animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a 6 percent DFE and 2 percent DDE; and imports for the food industry, cement, and agriculture machinery are subject to an 8 percent DFE and a 2 percent DDE. In addition, a surtax of 20 percent or 30 percent is imposed on all luxury goods, and a surtax of 30- 60 percent is levied on nonalcoholic beverages and certain wine and spirits. Importers are required to provide 25 percent of the value of imports (c . i .f .) in domestic currency as advanced payment of customs duties, upon filing the import request. The import tariff payable by the two mixed enterprises in the mining sector is subject to special agreements. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles through the official foreign exchange market require central bank au- thorization. Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import operation. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance with com- panies abroad. Allocations for tourism, other than for the purchase of airline tickets, are limited to US$800 a person a trip, with a maximum of four trips a calendar year; each application is considered individually. Government officials on official mis- sions are permitted an allowance of US$90 a day. In cases of serious illness, when a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents may be granted foreign ex- change for medical care abroad or they may be per- mitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Payments for family support through the official market may be made up to monthly amounts deter- mined on the merits of the case; for officially recog- nized study abroad, the exchange allocation is made on a case-by-case basis. The Investment Law of 1985 (as amended in 1987) guarantees that profits earned from approved for- eign investments may be transferred abroad, and that certified dividends and royalties may be trans- ferred in full. It also provides for certain tax incen- tives. The transfer abroad of salaries by expatriate workers is authorized up to a limit of 50 percent of base earnings, and only for those contracts ap- proved by the Ministry of Labor. The export of Gui- nean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an ex- port description for purposes of (1) preventing shortages of goods needed for domestic consump- tion; and (2) identifying capital outflows. Exports of the mining sector are exempted from this requirement. For the following commodities, special authoriza- tion from designated agencies is required: wild ani- mals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of his- toric or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. Foreign planters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, ba- nanas, or citrus fruits exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The mixed-economy companies are allowed to re- tain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating requirements, and to service their external debt. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, exchange proceeds accruing to resi- dents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The importation of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks is permitted freely, subject to declaration on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 201 entry; residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks within 15 days of return. Certain residents, by virtue of their occupation, are autho- rized to deposit foreign exchange proceeds in their foreign currency accounts. The importation of Gui- nean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Capital All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. The Investment Law of 1985 provides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applica- ble to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation pro- ceeds of such investments. Small and medium-size enterprises in which at least GF 50 million is in- vested over a three-year period may receive import tax reductions and exemptions from other taxes for a period of eight to ten years. Exemptions for up to 15 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the economy. The mini- mum foreign investment in Guinean enterprises is GF 10 million. Guinean nationals must have control- ling interests in enterprises requiring foreign in- vestment of GF 10 million to GF 50 million. Gold Since June 1990, the Central Bank has purchased gold in Guinean francs only. Since the monetary reform of 1986, Guinea has issued fine silver com- memorative coins of GF 10,000, which are legal tender. Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restriction. Only the exportation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments February 26. The custom duties were modified as follows: (1) with certain exceptions, all products are subject to a turnover tax of 10 percent, custom du- ties (DFE) of 8 percent, and custom charges (DDE) of 7 percent; (2) animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceuti- cal products, and fertilizer are subject to DFE of 6 percent and DDE of 2 percent; (3) imports for the food industry, cement, and agriculture machinery, are subject to DFE of 8 percent and DDE of 2 per- cent; (4) the surtax on cigarettes was reduced to 80 percent from 130 percent; on beer and alcoholic beverages, to 60 percent from 130 percent, and on nonalcoholic beverages, to 30 percent from 50 percent. Importers of consumer goods, including tourist vehicles, furniture, and household electrical ap- pliances, were required to provide 20 percent of the value of imports (c .i .f .) in domestic currency as advanced payment of custom duties, upon filing the import request form. November 13. The rate of advance payment of customs duties required to be made at the time of filing import requests was raised to 25 percent from 20 percent. Gold June 1. The Central Bank began to purchase gold in Guinean francs only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea- Bissau Peso. Guinea-Bissau follows a flexible ex- change rate policy under which the exchange rate of the Guinea-Bissau peso in terms of the SDR is ad- justed at relatively short intervals on the basis of estimated domestic price developments. Daily buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed within margins of 2.25 percent of the SDR rate for the Guinea-Bissau peso. On Decem- ber 31, 1990, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was PG 2,508.6 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the cen- tral bank). Residents must declare to the central bank all their physical assets and foreign exchange holdings abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all foreign countries must be made in foreign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in which export earnings are to be received. Guinea-Bissau maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Algeria, but this agree- ment has been inoperative since 1981. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain demand and time deposits with the commercial bank in foreign ex- change. Residents may also maintain these deposit accounts, provided that the accounts are credited with income received in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used without restriction. These deposits are remunerated in foreign exchange, at a rate of 4 percent a year in the case of demand de- posits, and at freely negotiated rates in the case of time deposits. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to prior licensing. Licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Under an open general license system, import licenses are automatically issued upon request, after verification of the invoiced prices, except for petroleum imports and products on a negative list. Imports of petro- leum products are a state monopoly. Private sector importers with valid import licenses may freely provide their foreign exchange to finance their imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles by the private sector are approved under a weekly allocation to the com- mercial bank of US$30,000, which is set by the cen- tral bank. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are limited to the equivalent of 1 percent of total exports in the previous year for exporters and to the equivalent of PG 62,000 for others. For study abroad, foreign exchange is granted up to the equiv- alent of PG 23,000 a month (PG 11,500 for high school students). Travel allowances for medical treatment are provided up to the equivalent of PG 110,000. Remittances for other purposes are granted on a case-by-case basis. Foreign travelers may take out any remaining for- eign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only export- ers registered with the Ministry of Economic Coor- dination, Commerce, and Tourism may obtain ex- port licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. Until August 1986, exports of groundnuts and cashew nuts were reserved for the Government and were effected by two state com- panies, the People's Stores and SOCOMIM. Other products exported solely by the Government in- cluded palm kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, fish, beer, nonalcoholic beverages, groundnut oil, and parquet flooring. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 203 Exporters are required to surrender 100 percent of their export proceeds to the central bank. They are, however, entitled to benefit from up to 50 percent of the surrendered proceeds to make payments for authorized imports. Foreign exchange earnings may be surrendered to the banking system without their sources being identified. Private exporters of nontraditional products are authorized to use up to the equivalent of their total foreign exchange re- ceipts, less an export duty, to pay for merchandise imports. All exports are subject to a general customs fee of 1 percent. During 1987, the effective export tax rate on cashew nuts was reduced in stages, to 46 percent from 80 percent, ad valorem, and all other export taxes were abolished. The export tax on cashew nuts was further reduced to 41 percent in 1988 and to 34 percent in 1989. A special regime applies to ex- ports destined for countries of the Economic Com- munity of West African States (ECOWAS); they are exempt from the 1 percent general customs fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency. Foreign airline companies must cover the excess of their expenditures over revenues in Guinea-Bissau pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinea-Bissau pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. Foreign travelers are allowed to take out any unspent amount of the foreign exchange that was declared upon entering the country. Capital Foreign investment operations are guided by the Investment Code introduced in 1980 and currently under review. This Code exercises exchange control over capital receipts and payments. Capital trans- fers associated with emigration are authorized by "transitional norms" within a monthly limit of PG 50,000 and up to 20 percent of total taxable income earned during a period of not more than ten years. At present, however, such transfers are suspended. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, ex- cept when authorized by the head of state and the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1990 Nonresident Accounts March 1. The commercial bank was authorized to accept foreign exchange deposits from nonresi- dents. These deposits, which may be used without restriction and are freely transferable abroad, would be remunerated in foreign exchange, at a rate of 4 percent a year for demand deposits and at freely negotiated rates for time deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, for which three exchange rates exist: an official rate fixed by the Bank of Guyana, a free (cambio) rate determined by market forces, and a special rate fixed by the Bank of Guyana for transactions with CARICOM countries. Although the official rate is de- termined on the basis of its fixed relationship to a basket of currencies,1 in practice, it is adjusted to maintain a certain level against the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for telegraphic transfers to and from the Bank of Guyana were G$44.97 and G$45.20 per US$1, respectively. The Bank of Guyana's rates for pounds sterling and Canadian dollars are determined on the basis of the U.S. dol- lar/pound sterling cross rate quoted by the Bank of England and the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar cross rate quoted by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Bank of Guyana charges commissions at different rates on the purchase and sale of officially quoted currencies. The following transactions are effected at the offi- cial exchange rate: (1) on the receipts side, sugar, bauxite, rice, and telecommuncations; and (2) on the payments side, fuel, sugar, rice inputs, foodstuffs under commodity assistance, and official debt service payments.2 All other transactions, ex- cept CARICOM transactions, are effected at the cam- bio rate. The average buying and selling rates in the cambio market on December 31,1990 were G$96.30 and G$97.87 per US$1, respectively. CARICOM trans- actions take place through the Bank of Guyana, but at the special CARICOM rate.3 This rate is adjusted weekly on the basis of movements in the cambio exchange rate; on December 31,1990, it was G$96 = US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on the pur- chase or sale of foreign exchange. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the official sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are pro- vince January 1984, the currency basket has been defined to include pounds sterling, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, French francs, and Netherlands guilders. telecommunications transactions were transferred to the cambio market on February 1, 1991, and rice transactions were transferred to this market on March 1, 1991. 3The major currencies to which this rate applies are the Bar- bados dollar, Eastern Caribbean dollar, Jamaica dollar, and Trin- idad and Tobago dollar. vided to certain deposits in the Blocked Accounts. (See section on Nonresident Accounts, below.) Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minis- ter of Finance, who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. All payments at the official exchange rate require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade and Consumer Pro- tection is responsible for issuing import and export licenses. With the establishment of the cambio market (on March 13, 1990), the Bank of Guyana, under the Exchange Control Act, suspended exchange control notices that relate to (1) basic travel al- lowances; (2) correspondence courses; (3) sub- scription to clubs and societies, including en- trance fees; (4) payment for periodicals, magazines, etc.; and (5) emigration. Also, until fu r th er notice, dealers are no longer authorized to accept deposits into the external payments de- posit scheme for payment of imports f rom coun- tries outside CARICOM w i thout approval f rom the Bank of Guyana. Under the Foreign Currency (Licensing) Act, with the payment of a fee of G$100,000, individuals may be licensed for a period of one year (renewable) to engage in foreign currency operations; these op- erators are required to submit weekly returns of the transactions they conduct to the Bank of Guyana. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are consid- ered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, in- cluding payments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 205 listed specified currency4 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guyana. They may be credited freely with all autho- rized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresi- dents and with transfers from other External Ac- counts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to resi- dents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., certain capital proceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized pay- ments, including the purchase of approved se- curities. Since mid-1978, Blocked Accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for for- eign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate. The Bank of Guyana provides full ex- change rate guarantee for deposits made before the devaluation of January 1984; partial exchange rate guarantee (at the rate of G$5.0 = US$1) for deposits made between January 1984 (after devaluation) and the end of January 1987; partial exchange rate guar- antee (at the rate of G$10 = US$1) for deposits made between January 1987 and the end of March 1989; and no exchange rate guarantee for deposits made after March 1989. Imports and Import Payments All imports from or transiting South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain products are also pro- hibited from all non-CARicoM sources. These pro- hibitions are currently applicable to only four cate- gories of food: unprocessed meat, poultry, fruit, and processed fruit items. Permissible imports are subject to individual licensing, but the following commodities are exempt: passengers' baggage, household and personal effects, bona fide patterns and samples that have a stipulated f.o.b. value, 4Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. parcel post items of a certain value imported by individuals, and gifts subject to certain conditions. Import licenses are not required for goods originat- ing in and consigned from CARICOM states. There are no import quotas. The Ministry of Trade and Consumer Protection grants import li- censes automatically. For imports transacted through the official exchange market, foreign ex- change approval is required by the Bank of Guyana. Official foreign exchange is allocated independently of the issuance of import licenses by the Ministry of Trade and Consumer Protection. All applications for official foreign exchange must be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in Blocked Accounts with commercial banks. Commercial banks are required to maintain a 100 percent reserve requirement against these de- posits at the Bank of Guyana. Import licenses for imports e f fec ted th rough the official market are issued in respect of certain specified produc ts only to the government corpor- ation that has been authorized to procure them centrally. When the responsibility for handling imports of any p roduct has been given to a single government agency with a view to eliminating duplication of ordering between such agencies, the relevant licenses are issued only to that corporation. In general, import transactions e f fec ted through the cambio exchange market are permit- ted w i thout restriction; most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Import licenses are not required for the following goods: (1) goods imported by individuals for personal use; (2) ma- chinery and equipment to be used in pursu it of self-employment; and (3) goods to be used by noncommercial, nonagricultural, nonindustrial, or social organizations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries effected at the official exchange rate require approval, whereas transactions may be freely effected through the cambio market. Foreign exchange for tourist travel and education may be purchased in the cambio mar- ket without restriction. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject to an exit tax of G$165 on departure.5 Persons traveling abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding C$200. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign cur- rency that may be taken out for foreign travel. 5Increased to G$l,000 on February 20, 1991. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 GUYANA Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Sugar may be exported only by the Guyana Sugar Corpor- ation, and bauxite and alumina, only by Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited. Certain other exports are also channeled through official agencies. Rice may be exported by the Guyana Rice Export Board and the private sector. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds of exports effected through the official market are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified cur- rencies (see footnote 1), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding C$200 in value. A foreign exchange re- tention scheme permits exporters transacting at the official exchange rate to retain a certain percentage of export proceeds. The retention ratio is 100 per- cent for bauxite, 17.5 percent for sugar, and 10 per- cent for rice. Retained foreign exchange may be used relatively liberally for imports of inputs and external debt servicing by exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 1) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign bank notes; domestic bank notes up to a value of G$200 may be brought in by returning travelers only. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Private Investment Code of 1979. Foreign investors must apply to the Bank of Guyana for approved status for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capi- tal. Such approval is normally given for direct in- vestments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; "approved status" assures that profits may be remit- ted and that upon liquidation of the investment, the proceeds, including any capital increments after payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in full in the currency of the original investment. Foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries can borrow in Guyana only with the express approval of the Bank oi Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 1) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized dealer (bank) or licensed dealer (cambio), but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange control approval. However, publicly owned enter- prises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the fi- nancing of specific projects and, in some instances, for working capital purposes. Since mid-1979, any borrowing by a public sector corporation has re- quired prior approval from the Government Debt Committee. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, pro- ducers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, without special permission. Im- ports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require li- censes issued by the Ministry of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out with them jewelry up to a value of G$12,000, G$9,000, and G$3,000 for women, men, and children under 12 years of age, respectively. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement March 13. All foreign currency transactions that took place in the parallel market were legalized un- der the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licensing) Act, which resulted in the establishment of a new foreign exchange market (cambio market). With effect from this date, these transactions can be con- ducted by persons, partnerships, and companies who have been licensed by the Government. At the same time, transactions relating to nontraditional exports and certain imports and services were shifted from the official to the cambio market. On the receipts side, transactions remaining in the offi- cial market consisted of the following: (1) exports of sugar, bauxite, bulk rum, and rice; (2) foreign ex- change received by any person through the pay- ments arrangements of the CARICOM central banks in respect of exports to CARICOM countries; and (3) foreign exchange received by the Guyana Tele- phone and Telegraph Company6 for services ren- dered by it. On the payments side, transactions remaining in the official market consisted of the formerly the Guyana Telecommunications Company. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 207 following: (1) debt-service payments of the public sector; (2) petroleum products (excluding lubri- cants), sugar, foodstuffs imported under com- modity assistance, rice inputs, drugs and phar- maceuticals, salt, hatching eggs, and stockfeed; (3) goods and services imported from CARICOM countries for which payments were made through the existing payments arrangements of the CAR- ICOM central banks; (4) inputs for exporters whose export earnings are required to be sold to authorized dealers at the official exchange rate; (5) pensions and gratuities; and (6) medical treatment abroad. June 15. The official exchange rate was adjusted from G$33 - US$1 to G$45 - US$1, and a special rate of G$60 = US$1 for transactions with CARICOM countries was established. Foreign exchange re- ceipts from the export of bulk rum and foreign ex- change payments for the following transactions were transferred to the cambio market: (1) drugs and pharmaceuticals; (2) salt, hatching eggs, and stockfeed; and (3) pensions and gratuities. In the case of goods and services imported from CARICOM countries for which payments are made through the existing payments arrangements of the CARICOM central banks, foreign exchange was required to be purchased from the commercial banks but at the special CARICOM rate. all vehicles used for transporting agricultural pro- duce and machinery and equipment for the forestry and mining industries were no longer exempted from the consumption tax and import duty.7 October 31. All remaining import prohibitions, ex- cept those on nonprocessed meat, poultry, fruit, and processed fruit items, were removed. November 19. Import licenses would be granted automatically by the Ministry of Trade and Con- sumer Protections within two days of application for such licenses, and the granting of import licenses would no longer be linked to the availability of for- eign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds June 15. An export duty of 1 percent was intro- duced on exports of the following products: raw gold; cut or cut and polished precious stones; agri- cultural products and their by-products, excluding unrefined sugarcane and molasses; forestry prod- ucts, including timber and lumber (other than greenheart timber and lumber), woodpulp, fire- wood, charcoal, and bark and extracts of bark; fruits; oils; balata; rubber and other lates; gums; resins; spices; tan s tuffs and dye stuffs; drugs; leaves; fibers; flosses; thatching materials and or- chids; and alumina and manganese. Imports and Import Payments June 15. A number of items were removed from the list of prohibited imports, and a consumption tax (ranging from 10 percent to 100 percent) and import duties were imposed on these items. Im- ports of agricultural equipment and appliances (ex- cluding spare parts), trailers (including parts), and 7In 1991, Guyana is expected to implement the Common Exter- nal Tariff (CET) of the Caribbean Common Market. The CET sets uniform tariff rates for all CARICOM countries on imports from non-Caricom countries. Intra-CARicoM trade will continue to be free of import duties, quotas, or import-licensing arrangements. The introduction of the CET will change the rate of duty on certain imports, but the Government has decided to offset these changes through compensating changes in the consumption tax schedule. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, the external value of which is defined in terms of the SDR, but in such a way as to preserve the relation- ship of G 5 = US$1. Both the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are G 5 = US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally ac- cepted in Haiti. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Sales of foreign exchange are sub- ject to an average local tax of 0.03 percent. The official rate applies, on the receipts side, to (1) pro- ceeds from exports of sugar; (2) foreign exchange receipts of public enterprises; (3) official external loans and grants and transfers received by exchange houses; (4) 40 percent of all other export proceeds and foreign exchange received by maritime agen- cies and nongovernmental organizations; and (5) 20 percent of private transfers. The official rate applies, on the payments side, to (1) public debt- service payments; (2) payments for imports of pe- troleum products; and (3) certain public sector payments. A different rate, established freely in a parallel market, consisting of the commercial banks and a limited number of authorized exchange houses, is used for all other transactions. In December 1990, the average selling rate in this market was G 7.7 per US$1. Commercial banks may open accounts in foreign exchange in favor of residents; these accounts may not be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or with receipts from maritime agencies and nongovern- mental organizations. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Haiti formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 22, 1953. Administration of Control The administration of the foreign exchange sys- tem is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank). The tax code provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authorities, equal to 20 percent of any commercial foreign exchange transaction not conducted through a bank estab- lished in Haiti.1 Aside from this requirement, there is no exchange control, and there are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Imports and Import Payments Seven products (beans, maize, millet, rice, sugar, chicken parts, and pork) are subject to licensing requirements without quantitative restrictions. The tariff structure introduced by a decree of February 10, 1987 eliminated all specific duties and estab- lished new ad valorem tariff rates between zero and 40 percent, except on five products (rice, maize, millet, flour, and gasoline). Gasoline is subject to a tariff of 57.8 percent, and rice, maize, millet, and flour are subject to a rate of 50 percent. The average tariff rate is about 20 percent, with the tariffs on equipment, raw materials, and some inputs at 10 percent or lower. Pharmaceutical imports are ex- empt from import duties. Customs tariffs and the value-added tax applicable to most imports are cal- culated according to a conversion rate of exchange that is 30 percent above (in terms of gourdes) the official exchange rate. All imports, except for inputs used by certain export industries, are subject to a consular fee of 3 percent. The fee is payable in Haiti. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of agricultural products require prior au- thorization from the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry. Such authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Forty percent of all export proceeds and foreign exchange receipts of maritime agencies and non- governmental organizations must be surrendered to the central bank through the commercial banks. Exchange houses are required to surrender all for- eign exchange transfers to the central bank.2 Ex- porters are required to negotiate documentary drafts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export proceeds. Under a law published on June 4,1984, the customs administra- *As of the end of 1990, the tax was not being enforced. 2 As of December 31, 1990, only the surrender requirement applicable to export proceeds was enforced. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 209 tion will refuse export approval unless such drafts are cleared by the central bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Resi- dents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 250 on tickets and an airport tax of G 75. They must also buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplomats and staff members of international organizations are exempt. Proceeds from invisibles are not required to be surrendered. There are no limitations on the importation or expor- tation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permit- ted, but imports of capital may be made freely. For- eign investment in Haiti is regulated by the decrees of March 13, 1963, October 8, 1969, and Decem- ber 31, 1984, and requires prior government ap- proval. Permission is normally not granted to non- residents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6,1973, private banks oper- ating in Haiti are required to keep a minimum of 85 percent of their liabilities for local customers in the form of domestic assets. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to purchase gold domes- tically and to export gold in the form of coins, mineral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effec ts by travelers may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require, in addi- tion, prior authorization f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Fi- nance, as well as an endorsement f rom the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry, before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of arti- cles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are free ly permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement January 10. The surrender requirements were re- duced to 40 percent and 20 percent for export pro- ceeds and private transfers, respectively. The paral- lel exchange market was legalized, and all payments except public debt-service obligations and imports of petroleum derivatives were allowed to be made through this market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lem- pira. With the exception of debt-service payments of the Central Government and trade with other Cen- tral American countries, all foreign exchange trans- actions are conducted in an interbank market. The exchange rate in the interbank market is determined by the Central Bank of Honduras, and is adjusted periodically, taking into account developments in the main economic indicators. On December 31, 1990, the buying rate in the interbank market was L 5.30 per U.S. dollar. The selling rate applicable to purchases by the private sector through the autho- rized banks and institutions is the buying rate plus a commission of 1.5 percent, and a commission of 1 percent is applied to purchases by the public sec- tor. The buying and selling rates for other currencies that are important to the foreign trade of Honduras are fixed daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates of the currency concerned against the U.S. dol- lar in international markets. Debt-service pay- ments, including debt conversions, of the Central Government are conducted at the official rate of L 2 = US$1. Separate exchange rates arise from an ar- rangement permitting exporters to Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Guatemala to transfer their foreign exchange proceeds to importers at freely negotiated exchange rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Honduras administers ex- change control regulations. The External Financing Department of the Central Bank issues import and export permits. Import permits can be used within 9 months of the date of issuance, or up to 12 months under special circumstances. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency tions with the rest of Central America may be car- ried out in local currencies, barter and compensa- tion mechanisms, or U.S. dollar proceeds from ex- ports to the rest of the Central American countries. In November 1990, a new Central American system of payments (Sistema Centroamericano de Pagos), a multilateral clearinghouse system, was ratified by the Central Bank of Honduras. The exchange rate applicable to all transactions channeled through this arrangement is the prevailing interbank market rate on the day of the transaction. All exports and imports of goods and services channeled through this system are exempt from any license, permit, advance deposits or guarantees, quotas, or any other quantitative restrictions that the Central Bank may impose for balance of payments reasons. A bilateral clearinghouse arrangement operates for transactions with Guatemala, under which out- standing balances are required to be settled every two months. The Central Bank of Honduras autho- rizes imports under this arrangement only when exports to Guatemala have taken place. Trade trans- actions with Nicaragua are carried out under a bilat- eral credit agreement. Payments to and receipts from Mexico in respect of merchandise trade and invisibles are settled on a four-month basis in U.S. dollars under an agreement between the Cen- tral American central banks and the Bank of Mexico. All lempira-denominated payments amounting to at least L 1,500, which are processed through the old Central American Clearing House in respect of trade and trade-related transactions with Mexico, Colombia, and member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM), require prior authorization from the Central Bank of Honduras. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required for all imports in excess of US$5,000 and are issued by the External Financing Department of the Central Bank (DERFE).1 Imports of corn, wheat, beans, rice, soya, and cattle require a license issued by the Honduran Institute of Agricultural Marketing (IHMA) before an import permit can be authorized by DERFE. Im- ports of some agricultural inputs (such as fertilizers and pesticides) require a license issued by the There are no regulations prescribing the method of payment to or from nonresidents. Trade transac- Affective February 14,1991, the system of import permits was replaced by a system of import registration. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 211 Ministry of Natural Resources. Imports of arms and similar items require a license issued by the Minis- try of Defense. The waiting period for import permits was 15 days on December 31, 1990. Imports may be checked for appropriate pricing. The financing of imports must be channeled through the banking system, either with foreign exchange purchased in the interbank market or with credits obtained abroad (except for financing obtained through ex- port advances or government credit agreements with external institutions). Authorized banks and institutions that operate in the interbank market must process foreign ex- change requests for imports and other authorized purposes in the order received. For that purpose, all intermediary institutions report daily to the Central Bank all requests for foreign exchange, and the Cen- tral Bank numbers them for sequential attendance by the banks. Exempt from sequencing are requests for US$2,500 or less. Until March 14, 1991, 10 per- cent of foreign exchange purchased by authorized banks and institutions was to be reserved for the importation of basic medicines and inputs and sup- plies for the agricultural and manufacturing indus- tries that were affected by the floods in 1990. A 100 percent guarantee deposit is usually required by commercial banks at the time of the request for foreign exchange. Most imports from countries outside the CACM are subject to customs duties, ranging from 2 per- cent to 40 percent.2 Imports from the CACM are subject to customs duties ranging from zero to 35 percent. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge of 5 percent. In addition, certain goods are subject to a customs surcharge of 10 percent of the c.i.f. import value. There is a duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes, industrial processing zones, and firms that are registered in the regime of temporary imports (a drawback regime), which are exempted from customs duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports with a value exceeding US$5,000 require a license and are subject to prior authorization from the DERFE. Exempt from the prior authorization are exports from the duty-free and the industrial pro- cessing zones. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered either to the Central Bank or to authorized banks and institutions. Subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank, exporters are allowed to retain up to 30 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as for the payments of authorized foreign ex- change obligations. Proceeds from exports of coffee and bananas must be surrendered within 30 days following approval of the prior export authorization by the DERFE; the permitted surrender period for other exports ranges from 30 days to 90 days.3 The commercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank 40 percent of their holdings of foreign exchange proceeds from exports and other receipts. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute. Exports of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes are controlled by IHMA, and lumber ex- ports are channeled through the Honduran Forest Development Corporation. Traditional exports are subject to a temporary ex- port tax of 12 percent.4 Exports of bananas are sub- ject to a tax at the rate of L 1 for each 40-pound box, but the tax is refunded for exports exceeding a cer- tain ceiling. Exports of coffee and sugar are subject to a tax if their export prices exceed a specified level. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All purchases of foreign exchange in excess of US$3,000 require prior approval from the Central Bank, and all buyers of foreign exchange are re- quired to file an application stating the purpose for which the funds will be used. Within this limit, persons traveling abroad may purchase foreign cur- rency in the interbank market, without prior autho- rization from the Central Bank, up to US$3,000 a person. No restrictions exist on the importation of foreign bank notes by travelers. There are delays in the provision of foreign exchange for the transfers of dividends and profits. Proceeds from invisibles are either subject to a surrender requirement or must be held as dollar-denominated deposits with commer- cial banks. Capital The authorization of the Minister of Finance and the approval of the Central Bank are required for all activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange and its transfer abroad for investment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or simi- lar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar fi- nancial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the 2Effective January 1,1991, the range was changed to 4-35 per- cent. 3 Effective January 24,1991, the maximum surrender period for minerals and nontraditional goods was extended to 120 days. 4The tax is to be phased out during 1991. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 HONDURAS Secretariat of Coordination, Planning, and Budget, and the Central Bank is required for public sector foreign borrowing whether for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of external debt by the private sector requires central bank approval. External debt contracts must be registered with the Central Bank, which provides foreign exchange for the servicing of duly registered and approved exter- nal debt only. The contracting of external financing by the public and private sector must conform with specified priorities as determined by the Central Bank. Commercial banks are required to transfer foreign exchange holdings in excess of specified limits to the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes during 1990 Exchange Arrangement March 13. A new exchange rate system came into operation. With the exception of debt-service pay- ments by the Central Government, and trade with other Central American countries, all foreign ex- change transactions will be conducted in an inter- bank market in which the exchange rate will be allowed to float within margins of 2.5 percent around a reference exchange rate. The latter will be determined by the Central Bank of Honduras and will be adjusted periodically, taking into account market conditions as reflected in the actual ex- change rates prevailing in the transactions of the commercial banks and other macroeconomic fac- tors. The reference exchange rate was initially set at L4 = US$1. Debt-service payments, including debt conversion by the Central Government, will con- tinue to be conducted at the official rate of L 2 = US$1. The self-financed import and compensation mechanisms and the "Transferable Certificates of Foreign Exchange" schemes were abolished. May 24. The reference exchange rate for the inter- bank market was changed to L 4.20 = US$1. September 3. A new foreign exchange market was created. Commercial banks and savings and loan associations were allowed to purchase foreign ex- change deriving from remittances, tourism, and other services at a market-determined exchange rate. October 15. The interbank and service markets were unified at a rate of L 5.5 = US$1. The band within which the interbank rate could float was eliminated. November 19. The Central Bank of Honduras ad- justed the interbank exchange rate from L 5.5 to L 5.4 - US$1. November 22. Exporters, with prior authorization from the Central Bank, were permitted to use up to 30 percent of their export earnings to finance im- ports of inputs and capital goods used in the pro- duction of export goods and to make payments for authorized foreign exchange obligations. December 13. Until March 14,1991,10 percent of the purchases of foreign exchange by the banking system would be reserved for the importation of basic medicines, inputs, and supplies for the agri- cultural and manu fac tu r ing industries that were a f fec ted by recent floods. Requests for foreign ex- change for these imports must be accompanied by a prior certification by the Ministry of Health, Min- istry of Na tural Resources, or Ministry of Econ- omy and would be exempt f rom the sequencing order. December 24. The Central Bank of Honduras ad- justed the interbank exchange rate to L 5.3 = US$1. Prescription of Currency November 1. A multilateral clearinghouse arrange- ment, a Central American system of payments (Sis- tema Centroamericano de Pagos), was ratified by the Central Bank of Honduras. The exchange rate appli- cable to all transactions channeled through the pres- ent system would be the prevailing rate in the inter- bank market on the day of the transaction. All exports and imports of goods and services chan- neled through this system would be exempt from any license, permit, advance deposits or guaran- tees, quotas, or any other quantitative control im- posed by the Central Bank for balance of payments reasons. All other existing bilateral agreements would remain in operation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 213 Imports and Import Payments January 30. The waiting period for the granting of import authorizations was shortened to 15-30 days from 30-90 days. March 3. The maximum amount of foreign ex- change that may be purchased for payments of im- ports and for authorized services without prior au- thorization from the Central Bank was raised from the equivalent of US$2,500 to US$3,000. March 13. The maximum rate of import tariff was reduced to 40 percent from 90 percent, and the maximum rate of import surcharge was reduced to 15 percent from 35 percent. June 13. The list of goods exempted from the selective surcharge of 10 percent (Decree 54) was increased by 24 classifications. The import tariff rate for the garment industry was reduced to 10 percent from 30 percent. July 27. The maximum amount of foreign ex- change that may be purchased for payments of im- ports of goods without prior authorization from the Central Bank was raised to US$5,000. September 3. The self-financed import mechanism was abolished, and the financing of imports was required to be channeled through the banking sys- tem, either with foreign exchange in the interbank market or with credits from abroad (except for fi- nancing through export advances and government credit agreements with external institutions). October 20. Authorized banks and institutions op- erating in the interbank market were required to process foreign exchange requests in the order re- ceived. For that purpose, all intermediary institu- tions would be required to report daily to the Cen- tral Bank all requests for foreign exchange received, and the Central Bank would assign them numbers for sequential attendance by the banks. Requests for US$2,500 or less would be exempt from the sequencing. Exports and Export Proceeds March 13. Temporary export taxes of 12 percent and 9 percent were imposed on both traditional and nontraditional exports. In addition, the fiscal incen- tives given to nontraditional exports through CEFEX (a freely negotiable tax credit certificate) were abolished. September 20. Congress approved a law governing the repatriation of foreign exchange from exports. Explicit fines and penalties for delays in the sur- render of export earnings and the underinvoicing of exports were imposed. The law also provided the Central Bank with the power to verify and adjust the price declared by exporters for purposes of for- eign exchange surrender. September 20. The temporary export tax of 9 per- cent for nontraditional products was eliminated. The temporary export tax for traditional products would be payable at customs, instead of at the time of surrender of foreign exchange. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles September 3. The maximum amount of foreign exchange that may be purchased for services with- out prior authorization from the Central Bank was increased to US$5,000 from US$3,000 if purchased in the newly created market for services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. Since October 17, 1983, the Hong Kong dollar has been linked to the U.S. dollar at a rate of HK$7.80 = US$1. Under this linked exchange rate arrangement, the two note- issuing banks must deliver to the Exchange Fund an amount in U.S. dollars that is equivalent to the local currency issued, as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues. The Exchange Fund, in turn, issues certificates of indebtedness denominated in Hong Kong dollars. Similarly, the banks may re- deem U.S. dollars from the Exchange Fund by de- livering local currency at the same linked exchange rate. Other licensed banks wishing to acquire (or exchange) local currency notes may purchase (or sell) them against an equivalent amount of U.S. dol- lars at the linked exchange rate with one of the note- issuing banks. For other transactions, the exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar is set in the exchange market at freely negotiated rates. However, the pos- sibility for interest rate arbitrage and currency ar- bitrage, together with the capability of the Ex- change Fund to intervene in the market, tends to keep the market rate in line with the linked rate. On December 31,1990, the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, wasHK$7.80 = US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The forward exchange markets are operated on private sector initiatives, and the Government has no official role. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and ex- port licensing is carried out mainly by the Director- General of Trade. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. No distinction is made between resident and non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of quantitative restrictions, ex- cept for those maintained for health, safety, en- vironmental protection, or security reasons. Among the latter, quantitative restrictions are placed on the importation of rice to ensure an adequate supply for domestic consumption. All imports are free of im- port duties, although an excise tax for revenue pur- poses is levied on imported as well domestically produced cigarettes and tobacco, alcoholic liquors, methyl alcohol, some hydrocarbon oils, non- alcoholic beverages, and cosmetics. With a few ex- ceptions, a trade declaration must be lodged with the Customs and Excise Department within 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported into or exported from Hong Kong. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses and certificates of origin are re- quired for certain textile products to enable Hong Kong to fulfill its international obligations under the Multifiber Arrangement and under a number of bilateral textile arrangements. Other restrictions are maintained for health, ecology, safety, or security reasons. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatri- ated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Earnings on investments, in- cluding interest on bank deposits in Hong Kong, are subject to the profits tax, but earnings from foreign investments are not taxed. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment. Capital 1Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A license or an authorization is required 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG 215 for companies, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, to conduct banking, or insurance and securities dealings. Otherwise, all overseas com- panies are only required to register with the Com- panies Registry of the Registrar General's Depart- ment within one month of establishing a place of business in Hong Kong. dents. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form and amount in Hong Kong or abroad. Commemorative gold coins of HK$1,000 are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold There are free and unrestricted markets for gold and gold futures open to residents and nonresi- Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian For- int. The exchange rate of the forint against curren- cies other than those of the member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA),1 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is derived on the basis of a weighted basket of 11 currencies;2 the weights are adjusted annually and reflect the currency composition of Hungary's foreign trade turnover (export receipts from and import payments to) with the nonruble currency area. The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular intervals, notably on the basis of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inflation. Exchange rates are quoted on a daily basis by the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) for 21 convertible currencies,3 and the NBH stands ready to effect transactions in any of these currencies. Buying and selling rates are set with a spread of 0.1 percent around the middle rate for each currency.4 Rates for other currencies are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. Rates for cur- rencies included in the basket to which the forint is pegged are based on the day's exchange rates in major international markets. The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars on Decem- ber 31,1990 were Ft 61.3878 and Ft 61.5106, respec- tively, per US$1. Forward exchange rates are quoted by the Na- tional Bank of Hungary in respect of 21 officially 1The member countries of the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese es- cudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). (Offi- cial quotation of the Kuwaiti dinar has been suspended since Au- gust 8, 1990.) In addition to the above, exchange rates for bank notes and traveler's checks are quoted for Greek drachmas. At the end of 1989, the exchange rate quotation for traveler's checks in Yugoslav dinars was terminated. 4The spread of 0.2 percent between buying and selling rates applies to spot telegraphic transactions. For checks and bank notes, a 6 percent spread is maintained between buying and selling rates. quoted convertible currencies and convertible currency-based clearing currencies. Forward rates are quoted according to international methods, that is, based on the daily official rates and swap d i f fe ren t ia ls between the fo r int and other currencies for periods of 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. The NBH buys and sells foreign curren- cies from and to Hungarian commercial banks. Commercial banks are authorized to quote for- ward rates for Hungar ian enterprises on the basis of the fo rwa rd quotations of the NBH. The NBH is ready to quote rates for commercial banks up to the amount of their net position arising f rom the deals of the commercial banks with Hungar ian enterprises having foreign exchange receipts or expenditures arising f rom foreign activities (for- eign trade, tourism, transportation, e tc .). The largest portion of Hungary's trade and finan- cial settlements with the member countries of the CMEA is settled in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC), and with Albania, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Re- public, and Democratic Kampuchea, in clearing rubles.5 Official exchange rates for the transferable ruble and the clearing ruble are, in principle, quoted daily by the NBH, although these rates re- main fixed for longer periods. At the end of Decem- ber 1990, the buying and selling rates for the forint against 1 transferable ruble were Ft 27.4725 and Ft 27.5275, respectively. The same rates applied to the clearing ruble. The NBH also quotes exchange rates for the forint against the currencies of member countries of the CMEA, Albania, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are used for noncommercial settlements; for example, international travel, expenses of diplomatic repre- sentation, and scholarships6 are based on multi- 5From the beginning of 1991, trade and financial settlements previously conducted in transferable or clearing rubles have been settled in convertible currencies. At the same time, prices used for these transactions are no longer determined by intergovern- mental agreement but reflected those prevailing in world mar- kets. As a transitional arrangement, however, the transferable and clearing rubles have continued to be used for the settlement of orders placed before the end of 1990, and for the settlement of some outstanding financial claims. 6A commission of 3 percent applies to purchases from tourists of bank notes in the currencies of member countries of the CMEA. 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 217 lateral agreements or, in some cases, on supplemen- tal bilateral agreements.7 Administration of Control The authority for enforcement of foreign ex- change regulations is vested in the Minister of Fi- nance, who exercises related functions through the NBH, except for those functions reserved for the Minister himself or delegated to other institutions. The NBH may entrust other agencies, such as bank- ing institutions and travel agencies, with the perfor- mance of specified tasks. The Central European International Bank Ltd., Inter-Europa, Ltd., Unic- bank Budapest, Ltd., Citibank Budapest, Ltd., and Creditanstalt Budapest, Ltd. are exempt from Hun- garian foreign exchange regulations and restrictions in respect of authorized activities. The regulations governing foreign trade in con- vertible currencies were liberalized in 1988. Since January 1988, all economic organizations in Hun- gary have been entitled to carry out foreign trade activity in convertible currencies after having been registered by the Ministry of Trade. The registration takes place automatically at the request of the com- pany concerned and on the basis of a declaration that it has fulfilled organizational and personnel conditions. If legal requirements are met, the Minis- try has no right to reject the registration application, which must be processed within 30 days. Each eco- nomic unit may be registered as conducting foreign trade activities (export and import) in respect of any product and service except for those specified on the negative lists. The latter goods and services may be traded only upon formal authorization. Private persons can also be authorized to carry out foreign trade activities. Foreign trading rights concerning products on the negative list are granted within 60 days. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Hungary notified the Fund on November 13, 7From the beginning of 1991, most noncommercial transac- tions have been conducted in convertible currencies. Except for tourist travel to Czechoslovakia, where special rules apply, for- eign exchange for all tourist travel (including to member coun- tries of the CMEA) has been made available in convertible curren- cies, subject to the limits for all such travel, described below. Pending the move to fu ll convertibility, under the provisions of a bilateral agreement, tourists from Czechoslovakia and Hungary have been permitted to acquire the currency of the other country freely through the domestic banking system; outstanding bal- ances have been settled in convertible currencies. Also, since the beginning of 1991, the NBH has not quoted exchange rates for the forint against the currencies of the member countries of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; Hungarian commercial banks will soon be permitted to trade at freely determined exchanges in these currencies. 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hun- gary has multilateral and bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.8 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settle- ment is made in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and physical persons may maintain convertible currency accounts at the au- thorized commercial banks. The accounts carry tax- free interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repayment but no exchange rate guarantee. Nonresident deposits at the NBH earn rates of interest that are competitive with those in international markets. The interest rates on deposits are based on the international financial market rates depending on the currency and the maturity of the deposit. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Payments in forints to nonresidents can be depos- ited in forint accounts for nonresidents at the autho- rized commercial banks. Residents may also open accounts at authorized commercial banks in foreign currencies. Foreign ex- change earned from creative, inventive, or artistic activity (including the royalties of authors, compos- ers, and performing artists), honoraria, prizes and awards, specified fees, winnings on foreign ex- change lotteries, VAT refunds received in foreign exchange, and money received from foreigners as a gift may be deposited in these accounts. Effective September 18, 1989, up to 100 percent of income or assets in convertible currencies from these sources may be deposited in these accounts, except for the 8At the end of December 1990, Hungary had bilateral pay- ments agreements with Albania, Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ecuador, Democratic Kampuchea, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic. Hungary also had trade agreements with bilat- eral payments features for certain commodities with Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. Except for Albania, the People's Republic of China, Democratic Kampuchea, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic, settlements under bilateral agreements were in clearing U.S. dollars. Settlements with the People's Republic of China were in clearing Swiss francs; and with Albania, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Democratic Republic, in clearing rubles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 HUNGARY proceeds from exports by small-scale traders and private enterprises, for which up to 10 percent may be deposited. In addition, reasonable amounts of savings from per diem payments, wages and sal- aries derived from employment abroad, scholar- ships, and artistic performances may be deposited in these accounts. Residents do not need authorization to use ac- counts of residents in foreign currencies. With- drawals of convertible currency deposits can be made in any convertible currency, or in forint. The deposits may be used by the depositor and his fam- ily members for foreign travel or to purchase foreign goods through the Konsumex, Intertourist, and other specialized shops, or directly from abroad against payment in convertible currencies. Deposits earn nontaxable interest at rates prevailing on inter- national markets. Imports and Exports A range of goods, principally capital goods, spare parts, and raw materials on a positive import list, may be imported without a license and without being subject to a quota. However, importers are required to report their contracts to the Ministry of Trade for statistical purposes.9 Other imports and all exports are subject to li- censing. Licenses are issued by the Licensing De- partment of the Ministry of Trade. No further li- cense from the foreign exchange authority is required for exportation or importation and the per- formance or use of related services. At the begin- ning of 1988, a "Normative Import Licensing Sys- tem" (SALDO) was introduced. Under this system, the value of imports of certain enterprises was agreed with the Ministry of Trade at the beginning of the year, and enterprises were then free to import goods (except finished consumer items) up to the agreed value without fur ther scrutiny. The value of these automatic licenses would increase (decrease) in a preset proportion if the firm's exports exceeded (fell short of) a predetermined level. The scope of this system was largely reduced by the partial liber- alization of imports in 1989.10 A fee equivalent to 1 percent of the forint value of licensed imports settled in convertible currency is levied. Imports are subject to import duties, a 2 percent customs fee upon customs clearance, and a 3 percent statistical fee. An advance import deposit scheme for capital goods introduced in 1968 remains in place but has been inactive since 1971. The authorized commer- cial banks, when taking over an advance obligation in their own name to transfer foreign exchange abroad that is related to foreign trade (i.e., when opening letters of credit or issuing guarantee), are obliged to deposit the forint equivalent of the obli- gation in a blocked, interest-bearing account with the National Bank of Hungary. The decree pertain- ing to this obligation does not apply to importers, but, in practice, the commercial banks usually ask the importers to deposit the forint cover in advance. When importing on behalf of other end-users, for- eign trade organizations can obtain payment from the end-user up to a maximum of 15 days before the due date for payment by the latter. The due date for payment can relate either to the date when a letter of credit is to be opened or, for imports against documents of acceptance, to the date of payment. In 1990, the import regime was liberalized, whereby a wide range of goods was permitted to be imported without a license. (Liberalized imports were equivalent to about 70 percent of total 1988 imports.)11 Imports of consumer goods settled in convertible currencies are subject to a global quota, the dollar value of which is published annually in the Foreign Trade Gazette. The value of the quota for 1990 was set at US$200 million.12 Settlement in foreign exchange is authorized and effected upon receipt, and according to the terms, of valid documents for settlement. Ex post verification of compliance with the terms of the license is made by the foreign exchange authority twice a year. Cer- tain imports are prohibited for sanitary, security, and other noneconomic reasons. On April 8, 1989, new rules governing noncom- mercial imports by returning Hungarian travelers came into effect. General import duties on these imports were increased to 45 percent from 30 per- cent. The duty-free allowance was reduced to Ft 5,000 from Ft 10,000 a person; it may no longer be either pooled among travelers or deducted from the value of imports above the allowance that is duti- able. The basis for the valuation of imports was changed from the corresponding domestic price to the actual invoice price expressed in forint terms, with the exception of imports of cars. Import duties on cars range from 10 percent to 70 percent, de- pending on type, cylinder capacity, and year of 9At the beginning of 1991, the positive list was replaced by a negative list; all goods that do not appear on this list may be imported without license or may be subject to quota. From Jan- uary 1,1991, contracts do not have to be reported to the Ministry of International Economic Relations. 10The SALDO system was abolished at the beginning of 1991. 11 The range of goods that may be imported without a license was expanded on January 1, 1991, to about 90 percent of total imports in 1988. 12The quota for 1991 has been set at US$630 million; it applies to specified consumer goods imported from all sources, includ- ing the member countries of the CMEA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 219 manufacture. Effective December 1,1989, a 25 per- cent value-added tax is levied on imports of cars. Returning residents may import, free of customs duty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earnings while stationed abroad for more than one year. Border trade is conducted on the basis of intergovernmental agreements. Certain exports are prohibited for sanitary, security, and other non- economic reasons. An export subsidy may be ap- plied to exports of agricultural products and pro- cessed foods settled in convertible currencies. The tax refund and the subsidy are calculated on the basis of the customs invoice value. In accordance with governmental agreements concluded in December 1990 and at the beginning of 1991, all commercial and noncommercial transac- tions with Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Romania have been effected in convertible currencies, as of January 1, 1991. In addition, with effect from Jan- uary 1,1991, the system of state commitments with respect to these countries has been abolished, and the individual companies are concluding commer- cial contracts at their own responsibility and risk, in convertible currencies of their choice, and on the basis of world market prices. Negotiations on the transition to similar trading arrangements are in progress with the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Democratic Kampuchea, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. All foreign assets and currencies must be de- clared, and all foreign exchange assets must be sold to the NBH, unless otherwise exempted. Declara- tion must be made within eight days, but the length of time allowed for repatriation depends on the na- ture of the case. The Foreign Trade Bank and the joint-venture banks are generally exempted from the obligation to surrender their foreign exchange assets to the NBH. The National Savings Bank and the General Banking and Trust Company are ex- empt from the surrender requirement in certain other cases; foreign exchange deposits of commer- cial banks are also exempt. Paid-in capital of joint- venture companies in convertible currency may be retained in a foreign exchange account in the origi- nal currency and may be used for different pur- poses, including imports and swap transactions with banks. The interest earned on these deposits may be retained by the bank where the deposit is placed. Individuals may be granted specific exemp- tions for gifts, as well as for wages and salaries earned while working abroad with official permis- sion, or for scholarships received from nonresidents (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Receipts of foreign currency not exceeding Ft 4,000 a person (inbank notes only) are also gener- ally exempt from the surrender requirement. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation and advertis- ing, are freely granted. Generally, other invisible transactions exceeding Ft 5,000 require general or individual authorization from either the Ministry of Finance or another competent authority. Foreign exchange for related payments is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain gen- eral authorizations for transactions up to specified amounts in connection with their own activities. General authorization up to specified amounts or proportions of turnover is given to enterprises en- gaging in foreign economic activities for the pur- pose of defraying expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to ex- penses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the condi- tions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the Ministry of Finance, the NBH, or the Ministry of International Economic Relations. On November 20, 1989, a regulation governing foreign exchange allowances for private travel was introduced, under which foreign exchange al- lowances for travel by passport holders over 14 years of age may be obtained in convertible currencies, subject to an individual allowance of US$50 a year from January 1, 1990. Drawings can only be made annually or to the extent of unused previous annual allowances. In addition, a bonus of US$50 or US$100 is granted if the allowances have not been drawn by 1990 or 1991, respectively. Those travelers who used more than one half of the total allowance available for the three-year period 1988-90 under the pre- vious system cannot receive further allowances un- til 1991-92. The portion available in foreign ex- change for the purchase of gasoline abroad was abolished except for the handicapped. Since January 1,1991, tickets for flights to Europe and the Middle East can be bought without limit; tickets for overseas flights can be bought once a year. For official and business travel, the Ministry of Finance establishes separate rules for living ex- penses and accommodation. Limits for living ex- penses are applied strictly, while accommodation allowances are applied more flexibly to reflect actual reasonable costs. Compliance with these limits is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 HUNGARY enforced by the enterprises or institutions them- selves within their allocated global foreign exchange quotas and is reviewed, on an ex post basis, by the Ministry of Finance. After returning to Hungary, a traveler must re- convert into forint the convertible currencies he does not spend while abroad, with the exception of Ft 4,000 a person, which is generally exempt from the surrender requirement. The global value of foreign currency that may be converted into forint by travelers from CMEA part- ner countries is determined in accordance with an- nual bilateral agreements. No minimum spending or conversion require- ment applies to nonresident travelers to Hungary. Travelers between Hungary and Poland are re- quired to have in their possession specific minimum amounts of the currency of their country of destina- tion. Nonresidents may take out of the country for- eign exchange assets and economic assets, in addi- tion to their personal effects, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, provided that they have filled out a "Certified Declaration on Brought- In Assets" on arrival. In addition, nonresidents may not take out of the country articles purchased in Hungary whose value exceeds Ft 3,000. Within the same overall limits, nonresidents from countries with which an agreement is in force for the recipro- cal exchange of currencies (CMEA members, except Cuba and Viet Nam) may take out of the country gifts up to Ft 300 a person, as well as purchased articles up to 50 percent of the amount brought into Hungary under the certification of the nonresident's foreign exchange authority. However, nonresidents may freely take out articles bought in shops desig- nated for sales in convertible currencies. Residents may, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not ex- ceeding Ft 2,000 a person (in denominations not exceeding Ft 500); the corresponding limit for non- residents is Ft 500 a person. Special exchange regulations apply to travel to CMEA countries as follows: in addition to the Ft 2,000 that may be taken out of the country in forint and converted at the travel destination, resi- dents traveling to CMEA countries are entitled to unlimited purchases of traveler's checks and bank notes of the country of destination. All conversions are effected at the rate of exchange quoted by the NBH for the relevant currency. By multilateral agreement, no reconversion of for- int acquired by CMEA tourists into their own na- tional currency is allowed. Tourists from the con- vertible currency area can reconvert not more than half of the amount they originally converted into forint. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresidents or from con- vertible currency accounts of the person in question (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hungary, other than those employed in joint ven- tures, are determined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign institutions or enter- prises. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their income. Capital All foreign borrowing, excluding foreign borrow- ing on the basis of intergovernmental agreements, requires the approval of the NBH, and the approval is granted liberally. Some of the joint-venture banks are exempt from this regulation. As the Hungarian commercial banks and enterprises are not yet well known internationally, most of the requirements of the economy for foreign credit are met through foreign borrowing by the NBH. Directives for extending short-term commercial credits in connection with foreign trade activities have been established jointly by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Trade, and the President of the NBH. No license is required from the foreign exchange authority for commercial credits in compliance with the directives. The NBH refinances these credits from its own resources. Foreign investment in the form of joint ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established, without the approval of any ministry. Effective Jan- uary 1, 1991, the licensing requirement was abol- ished for joint ventures. Foreign participation up to 100 percent may also be allowed, without approval. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases, the joint venture is considered as a Hungarian legal entity, but those in duty-free zones are not subject to several regulations. Ma- chines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may qualify as foreign investment. The profit tax rate for joint ventures in the production sphere and in hotel building and hotel trade is 16 percent in the first five years of operation and 24 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year, provided that the equity capital exceeds Ft 50 mil- lion and the foreign partner's ownership exceeds 30 percent; this compares with a generally applied profit tax rate of 40 percent. The reinvestment of profits is encouraged by a reduction in the profit tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 221 Joint ventures in preferred lines of production are exempted from the profit tax for five years and pay 16 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year. There are no customs duties on real assets brought into joint ventures. Guarantee is given for the trans- fer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, if the joint venture is liquidated, of the invested capital and capital gains. In addition, a guarantee may be obtained from the NBH covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or from Hun- garian banking institutions covering the fulfillment of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organi- zations, either by establishing subsidiaries or affili- ates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enter- prise, is subject to the approval of the Ministry of International Economic Relations. In addition, ap- proval is required from the Minister of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 3,000, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the NBH. Gifts (movable property) from nonresidents to residents in Hungary in excess of Ft 25,000 a person are also subject to licensing. Nonresidents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate, buildings, or other immovable property in Hun- gary, except through inheritance. Outward capital transfers by resident physical persons are not generally approved. For certain es- tablished categories, such as inheritances, transfers may be authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries, subject to the ap- proval of the NBH. Effective April 1, 1989, emigrants have been al- lowed to take out of the country assets valued at up to Ft 250,000, silver objects weighing no more than 1 kilogram, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effects. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonresidents, are held either in the care of a person designated by the nonresident owner or, in the case of financial assets, in a nonresi- dent blocked forint account or blocked deposit. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the authority of the NBH and in concurrence with the competent authority in the case of industrial and artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every kind of gold coin minted before 1945, must be offered to the NBH for sale. Except for transactions with enterprises specifically authorized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing administered by the NBH. Changes During 1990 Prescription of Currency During 1990, Hungary entered into negotiation with member countries of the CMEA, Albania, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Democratic Republic to reform the ex- change and payments systems that are applied to transactions with these countries; since the begin- ning of 1991, most trade transactions have been settled in convertible currencies at prices prevailing in world markets, and most noncommercial pay- ments have been settled in convertible currencies. As a transitional arrangement, some transactions have continued to be conducted in transferable and clearing rubles. Imports and Exports January 1. The range of imports that are free of all licensing or quota requirements was increased to approximately 70 percent of 1988 imports; the quota for imports of consumer goods was increased to US$200 million. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles May 3. The National Bank of Hungary appreci- ated the selling rate for bank notes and coins of Czech koruna to Kcs 1 = Ft 2.66, while leaving the buying rate unchanged at Kcs 1 = Ft 2.22. The rates used for telegraphic transfers were not affected by this change. July 1. The spread between the buy ing and sell- ing rates for bank notes and coins of the Czech koruna was reduced to 6.5 percent. (Buying ra te Kcs 1 - Ft 2.37; selling rate Kcs 1 = Ft 2.525.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona, the exchange rate of which is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The Central Bank is authorized to fix the daily rate of the krona within a limit of 2.25 percent on either side of its central basket rate. There is no organized foreign exchange market in Iceland, and official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the principal trading and reserve currency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are adjusted daily. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates were ISK 55.31 and ISK 55.47, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies1 are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international mar- kets. The banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Iceland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 19, 1983. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce and Banking, after consulting with the Central Bank, has the ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and foreign exchange regulations, while exports come under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade. The Central Bank is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls; it is also responsible for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents from commercial transac- tions is surrendered to authorized banks and that such foreign exchange is disposed of as authorized. Prescription of Currency All exchange receipts must be obtained in con- vertible currencies. Settlements with countries whose currencies are usually tied to the U.S. dollar, and with several other countries in eastern and southern Europe, as well as outside Europe, are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. made in U.S. dollars. Settlements with countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries are made in sterling; and those with other countries are made in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona accounts with the authorized banks: Foreign Ac- counts and Special Accounts. The opening of non- resident accounts requires individual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currency to banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for payments to residents and may, without a license, be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are, in practice, seldom used, pay- ments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies.2 Special Accounts in kronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an Icelandic bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely with approved pay- ments from residents. Imports and Import Payments Most goods can be imported freely without an import license. The main exemptions are live ani- mals, certain agricultural products, and certain oil fuels. Certain imports, including fertilizers, to- bacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages, can be ordered freely but admitted only under state- trading arrangements. Some fresh vegetables, po- tatoes, and flowers are subject to periodic import control. For imports from all sources, where a license is required, a fee of 1 percent is assessed on the krona 2Residents, including exporters of goods, who hold foreign currency that they are not required to sell to authorized dealers may open Foreign Accounts with Icelandic banks. Exporters can similarly deposit, up to six months, foreign exchange proceeds in identical accounts to meet foreign exchange outlays in their busi- ness. Such accounts, denominated in Danish kroner, deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and may be debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 223 value of the import license when it is issued. Al- though certain oil fuels are subject to licensing, no fee is assessed. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment f rom abroad, but import docu- mentation must be presented to domestic banks to obtain foreign exchange. For imports that require an individual license, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely obtain suppliers' credits for up to one year for individual shipments from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port. The maturity must conform to general practices in international trade for respective goods. If, however, a domestic financial institution acts as guarantor, the credit terms must not exceed a period of six months. Im- port documentation on credit terms must be pre- sented to one of the banks at the time of customs clearance. Suppliers' credits in excess of one year are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Com- merce and Banking. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle and the engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public ser- vice vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whether imported or domestic, are subject to a special excise tax of 24 percent or 30 percent, ad valorem. A specific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax dependent on alco- hol content and volume. Payments for Invisibles Payments for services rendered to residents by nonresidents and the rem i t tance of interest, divi- dend, rent, and other fo rms of income f rom capi- tal are completely free, but bona fide documents must be submitted to the banks. The only rema in- ing restrictions on invisible operations concern travel expenses. The basic fore ign exchange al- location for tour ist travel is the equivalent of ISK 200,000 (based on the ISK-ECU exchange rate on August 1, 1990) a person for each trip abroad. For business travel, the basic allocation is the equivalent of ISK 400,000 a person a trip. The rules stipulating an exchange license fee of 1 percent for most invisibles remained in e f fect for budge ta ry reasons un t il December 31, 1990, but were elimi- nated as f rom Janua ry 1, 1991. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Icelandic bank notes in any de- nominations that they have legally acquired. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fisheries and agricultural products re- quire licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade. The shipping documents must be lodged with a domestic bank. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered without undue delay. Exporters can deposit with a domestic bank foreign exchange outlays in their business. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles of a commercial nature must be surrendered. The owners of Icelan- dic ships and aircraft are permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges and to use them for operat- ing purposes and for purchases of necessities. Ice- landic insurance companies that reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in Icelandic bank notes, in any amount, and in any denomination that they have legally acquired. Capital All investments by nonresidents are subject to individual approval. Rules concerning Icelandic joint-stock companies, which are laid down in Law No. 32/1978, require the majority of the founders of a joint stock company to have been domiciled in Iceland for the preceding two years. No conditions are imposed with regard to Icelandic nationality of the founders; but the right of foreigners to direct or own shares in joint-stock companies is governed by legal provisions that are different for the various types of economic activity. The director or directors of the branch office must be domiciled in Iceland, and, as a rule, they must be Icelandic citizens. As far as the marine sector is concerned, the regulations severely restrict foreign participation, and fishing within the 200-mile fishing limit is permitted only by Icelandic citizens using vessels registered in Ice- land. Fish processing can be carried out only by Icelandic citizens or wholly owned Icelandic com- panies. A manufacturing company with an un- limited liability must be owned by Icelandic citizens domiciled in Iceland to obtain an operating license. According to the legislation on limited-liability com- panies, the majority of shares do not have to be owned by Icelandic citizens nor do the members of the board of directors or the managing directors have to be Icelandic citizens. It is, however, required ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 ICELAND that the majority of the board of directors and man- aging directors be domiciled in Iceland. An alumi- num plant that is wholly owned by nonresidents is an exception in accordance with special legislation. Non-resident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered; nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresi- dent accounts for such funds, in which case their retransfer abroad is permitted. Residents are allowed to obtain credit for general financing purposes with the following limitations: the transaction cannot be guaranteed, funds may not be re-lent by a resident financial institution, extended credits to any resident may not exceed a total of ISK 3,750,000 (ISK 5,625,000 from January 1, 1991) or its equivalent in other currencies during each calendar year, the maturity must exceed one year, and copies of all lending documents have to be submitted to the Central Bank. The same rules ap- ply to credits extended by residents to nonresi- dents. Forward agreements, futures, options, and swaps are free, provided that there exists an under- lying international trade or capital transaction and that the Icelandic krona is not involved. Applica- tions for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits. Suppliers' credits with a maturity of up to 12 months may be contracted without restriction as long as the transaction is not guaranteed and the funds are not re-lent by a do- mestic financial institution; otherwise the max- imum maturity period is restricted to 6 months. The regulations on foreign borrowing, purchase leasing, and financial leasing of capital goods re- quire that 20 percent of the value of imports of capital goods be financed domestically; this ratio is 30 percent if the borrowing is guaranteed or the funds re-lent by a financial institution. Direct investments abroad and the purchase of real estate abroad are permitted up to ISK 3.75 mil- lion3 or its equivalent in other currencies during each calendar year. Portfolio investments abroad are permitted up to ISK 375,000 (ISK 562,000 from January 1, 1991) in each calendar year. Residents 3This limit was raised to ISK 5.625 million, effective January 1, 1991. must effect all transactions in foreign securities through a licensed resident broker who is a member of the Icelandic Securities Exchange. Members of the Icelandic Securities Exchange may invest mu- tual funds in foreign securities up to ISK 75 million (ISK 112.5 million from January 1, 1991). Residents who have lawfully acquired foreign exchange may maintain accounts with nonresident institutions up to ISK 750,000 (ISK 1.5 million from January 1, 1991). Outward transfers of some personal capital, such as gifts, inheritances and legacies are free up to ISK 200,000 in each calendar year. Icelandic emigrants may transfer up to ISK 750,000 a person at the time of departure. They may transfer the remainder of their assets upon presentation of evidence of permanent residency in a foreign country. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from their sale requires au- thorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresi- dents must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Control of the Central Bank, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The im- portation and exportation of securities by residents require central bank approval. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require li- censes issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1990 Capital December 15. The rules governing portfolio invest- ment were liberalized, allowing residents to pur- chase real estate and foreign securities as well as to undertake foreign investments up to specified limits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Ex- change rates are computed with respect to the value of the rupee, which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of the currencies of India's major trading partners. India maintains the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies within margins of 5 percent of the value adopted as the basis. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the interven- tion currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Reserve Bank of India; on December 28, 1990, they were Rs 28.946 buying and Rs 29.092 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for spot and forward purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars are based on the latest available rates and trends in international markets and are announced by the Reserve Bank every day; such rates may be changed at any time if the need arises. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Indian rupee. The Re- serve Bank stands ready to purchase currencies of certain member countries1 of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU), deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and for- ward, and to sell spot ACU currencies, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars. The Reserve Bank permits authorized dealers and authorized money changers to fix the floor and ceiling rates for purchases and sales of U.S. dollar and pound sterling notes and traveler's checks for all foreign currencies on the basis of a formula furnished by the Bank. The Re- serve Bank fixes periodically the "notional" ex- change rates for the deutsche mark, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar at which authorized dealers are required to sell to and repurchase from the Reserve Bank receipts/ remittances on account of deposits in the Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts Scheme. The Re- serve Bank bears the exchange risk involved in the operation of the scheme. Authorized dealers are permitted to maintain bal- ances and positions in "permitted currencies." Per- mitted currencies are divided into two groups, 1 Bangladesh, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Although it is not one of the countries specified in this context, Nepal is also a member of the ACU. Group A consisting of 20 listed currencies,2 and Group B consisting of any other foreign currencies that are convertible into any of the permitted cur- rencies in fairly active markets. Authorized dealers are also permitted to maintain abroad balances and positions in ECUs. Authorized dealers are permit- ted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency to and from banks in any currency outside the Bilat- eral Group.3 Authorized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell forward any permitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward pur- chase or sale of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad is prohibited. On December 28, 1990, market rates for telegraphic transfers in New York were US$5.5250 buying (clean) and US$5.4800 selling, per Rs 100; and the Reserve Bank's spot buying rate for U.S. dollars was US$5.5200, and its forward buying rates were US$5.5275, US$5.4970, and US$5.3825, per Rs 100 (for 1, 3, and 12 months' delivery, respectively). The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to au- thorized dealers through purchases of pounds ster- ling for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, and so on, up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 months), for pur- chases of U.S. dollars up to 12 months, and of deut- sche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, and so on, up to the sixth month. Thus, the forward contracts are on a monthly option basis, that is, with options to deliver the amount on any day from the first to the last day of the month in which the contract is due for delivery. In addition, the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation in respect of deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of contract; exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and U. A.E. dirhams. For payments specified in other convertible currencies, cover is provided at the discretion of the ECGC. The Reserve Bank also purchases the currencies of 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Czechoslovakia, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 INDIA the ACU member countries listed in footnote 1 from authorized dealers for delivery of up to six months on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers. All pro- posals for foreign direct investment in India are reviewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of commercial, industrial, and trading activities in India of companies incorpo- rated abroad, or with more than 40 percent nonresi- dent interest, or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of busi- ness for carrying out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of countries (see footnote 3) and the External Group of countries (all other countries). Payments to and from the Bilateral Group of countries must be set- tled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clear- ing account. Payments to the External Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or in any per- mitted currency.4 4 All remittances by nationals of the People's Republic of China to any country outside India and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were prohibited with effect from November 3, 1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and the People's Republic of China/ remittances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in conformity with exchange control regulations. All non-trade-related transactions with the People's Republic of China or nationals of the People's Republic of China continue to be prohibited, unless generally or specifically authorized. Authorized dealers are permitted to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of their branches or corre- spondents in the People's Republic of China or Pakistan without prior reference to the Reserve Bank, but should seek direction before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani or Chinese banks operating outside Pakistan and the People's Republic of China, respectively. Authorized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers as in the case oi imports from other countries; they also may effect certain types of personal remittances in accordance with regula- tions applicable to such remittances; remittances for other pur- poses require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Receipts from the External Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank situated in any country in the group or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may ap- ply in respect of exports under lines of credit ex- tended by the Government of India to the govern- ments of certain foreign countries. In addition, all payments on account of current international trans- actions (other than travel, export, and import trans- actions) financed with loans from international fi- nancial institutions under bilateral lines of credit between India and other members of the ACU (see footnote 1), except Nepal, are required to be settled through the ACU arrangement. Transactions with the ACU countries on a deferred basis are also re- quired to be settled through the ACU arrangement. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, com- panies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresi- dent accounts. The treatment of these accounts dis- tinguishes between banks and others. The accounts of banks are classified into two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes —that is, the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes; with authorized transfers from the non- resident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), provided that both the transferor and the transferee accounts are of the same country or coun- tries in the External Group; and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be deb- ited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to Non- resident (External) Accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of the same country or of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted into any per- mitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. 5However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 227 Ordinary nonresident accounts of individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts pre- viously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remit- tances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee ac- counts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds of foreign exchange tendered by the account holder during a temporary visit to India; proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by nonresi- dents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an ap- proved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in India; all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pensions, provident funds, gratuities, bonuses from a former employer, income tax refunds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 4,000 and that no individ- ual credit exceeds Rs 1,500. When the nonresident account holder is an In- dian national or a person of Indian origin, credits on account of withdrawals or loans from, and maturity proceeds of investments in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, rentals from and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder, and maturity proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds from the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in India and the repurchase price of units issued by the Unit Trust of India, are freely allowed. Indian emigrants may maintain ordinary nonresi- dent accounts, as may overseas corporate bodies or trusts in which at least 60 percent ownership or beneficial interest is held directly or indirectly by nonresident Indians, and provided that the initial deposit for opening such an account by these bodies or trusts is made from remittances abroad or from funds in India otherwise eligible for credit to these accounts. When the account holder is a foreign national of Indian origin, authorized dealers may credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and, in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian national or a foreign national of Indian origin, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were acquired with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary rupee accounts of nonresidents for (1) local disburse- ments other than for payments toward investments in India and for the booking of international pas- sages; and (2) payments toward investments in Unit Trust of India, National Plan or Savings Certifi- cates, and Securities of the Central or State Government. Nonresident (External) Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside outside India or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to autho- rized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 For- eign Exchange Regulation Act, all state cooperative banks and certain urban cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks not holding such li- censes have also been permitted by the Reserve Bank to open and maintain nonresident rupee ac- counts. Such accounts may also be opened for eligi- ble persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country in the External Group. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign cur- rency notes and coins tendered by the account holder during his stay in India, and also with in- come on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disbursements in India and for transfers abroad. Debits on account for investment in government securities and units of the Unit Trust of India and transfers to other Nonresident (Exter- nal) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee traveler's checks or traveler's let- ters of credit for the use of the account holder, his family and dependents, and for the use of directors and employees in the case of corporate entities. However, transfers of funds from an individual ac- count to a similar account of another person are ordinarily not permissible. Investments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms, etc., or in immovable property can be made with the specific or general approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and is transferable. The balances held in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 INDIA such accounts are exempt from the wealth tax. Gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in the accounts are also exempt from the gift tax. These tax exemptions are available only for those accounts maintained by nonresident individuals and not by overseas corporate bodies. Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts de- nominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian na- tionality or origin who reside in the External Group of countries and by overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking chan- nels, including interest, which are free of income tax, wealth tax, and gift tax. Balances may be re- patriated at any time in the currency of denomina- tion, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Bal- ances can also be used for the purposes for which debits to Nonresident (External) Accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Government to prohibit, re- strict, or otherwise control imports. Under this Act, the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, was issued, which specifies items subject to controls. All im- ports require import licenses or a customs clearance permit unless otherwise exempted.6 Imports of gold, silver, currency notes, bank notes, and coins are controlled by the Reserve Bank of India. Imports from Fiji and South Africa are prohibited. There are two types of actual user licenses: General Currency Area Licenses and Specific Licenses (used for im- ports from specified countries). Licenses are further classified as follows: Automatic Licenses, Supple- mentary Licenses, Import Replenishment (REP) Li- censes, Capital Goods Licenses, Advance Licenses, Special Imprest Licenses, Imprest Licenses, and Additional Licenses. Licenses issued for capital goods are valid for 2 years, and all other licenses mentioned above are valid for 18 months. The Import Policy for fiscal years 1990/91-1992/93, which came into effect on April 1,1990, with subse- quent amendments, contains the policy governing imports. The import policy divides products into three basic categories: consumption goods; raw ma- terials, components, consumables, tools, and spare parts; and capital goods. Imports of consumption goods are prohibited except for certain essential products that are canalized (i.e., reserved for the 6The exempted category includes government imports under Open General License, relief supplies, and passenger baggage. Government or state trading enterprises); consumer durable items are also not allowed to be imported except those that can be imported under the per- sonal baggage scheme by Indians returning from abroad.7 Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for industry are classified into four categories: (1) limited permissible; (2) restricted; (3) canalized; and (4) open general. There is also a list of instruments that are permissible for imports against licenses. All items not included on these lists are freely available for imports under Open General License (OGL). However, as a temporary measure, imports of unlisted items are permitted only against specific licenses since June 11, 1990. Nonresident Indians returning home for permanent settlement can, dur- ing the first 12 months after their return, import all raw materials except restricted (nonpermissible) items and canalized items under OGL, subject to a value limit for the purpose of setting up small in- dustries. Supplementary licenses may be obtained in case of need, even for the importation of limited permissible and restricted items. All licenses to in- dustry are generally issued against free foreign ex- change, except for imports from the rupee payment area and from countries that are financed with avail- able credits. Special procedures apply to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are restricted, while some capital goods listed may be imported under OGL, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are granted subject to prescribed procedure. In general, licenses are granted after it has been certified that such imports are essential ("essentiality certificate"), unavailable from domes- tic sources ("indigenous angle clearance"), and, where the value of imports exceeds Rs 4.0 million, that the importer has advertised his requirements for 45 days. For 14 industries and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders, whether or not the goods are manufactured in India. How- ever, importers are required to study domestic avail- ability of suitable equipment before calling for tenders. The selection of suppliers on the basis of global tender is subject to scrutiny by a committee headed by the Department of Industrial Develop- ment. For imports of capital equipment for power generation, transmission, and distribution, appli- cants must obtain prior clearance from this commit- tee before calling for global tenders. However, the 7Items that can be imported under the personal baggage scheme include air-conditioner units, refrigerators, deep freez- ers, cooking ranges, washing machines, television sets, tape recorders, record players, movie cameras and projectors, vid- eocassettes, textile fabrics, cigarettes, cigars, and tobacco. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 229 tenders floated by oil and the natural gas commission/oil India Limited/Gas Authority of In- dia Limited will be evaluated in accordance with the guidelines issued by the empowered committee on indigenization in the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. For projects being established with external assistance, under which the international competitive bidding (ICB) procedure is followed for inviting bids, no further indigenous clearance will be required. Imports under OGL are allowed, or import licenses are granted on the basis of the cer- tification of items covered by the ICB procedure by the concerned administrative ministry. The exemp- tion from indigenous clearance for the importation of capital goods, as above, is only for power pro- jects, and this concession is available to any other sector, while for all other projects normal rules ap- ply. Subject to specified conditions, exporters of manufactured goods are entitled to import capital goods against their Import Replenishment Scheme licenses without an essentiality certificate and with- out indigenous angle clearance, provided that the products are not on the restricted list. This facility is also available to the nominee of a merchant expor- ter. Nonresident Indians returning home for perma- nent settlement may import goods other than re- stricted items and certain specified items for purposes of setting up or investing in an enterprise. Under the REP scheme, licenses are issued to merchant exporters, manufacturer-exporters, ex- port houses, trading houses, and star trading houses, and these licenses are freely transferable. Exporters may obtain Advance Licenses (under the Duty Exemption Scheme) or DTG Diamond Imprest Licenses to import inputs required for export prod- ucts. The value of DTG Diamond Imprest Licenses is debited against the REP entitlement. The imports under the Duty Exemption Scheme are duty free. After fulfillment of the stipulated export obligation imposed against such a license, the license holder is eligible for a REP license equal to 10 percent of the value added from the c.i.f. value of all imported inputs to the f .o .b. value of export proceeds. Regis- tered exporters of goods and services are permitted to obtain REP licenses against export of specified products up to a certain proportion of the value of exports. These licenses are valid for importation of certain limited permissible and canalized items, which are related to the production of the particular export product. The REP license entitlement is in- creased by 10 percent for exports that are shipped in Indian vessels. Subject to a value limit on compo- nents and tools, manufacturer-exporters, export houses, trading houses, and star trading houses exporting products of their own manufacture are also allowed to import limited permissible items and canalized items that are related to products ex- ported or manufactured by them. REP licenses is- sued against exportation of products (except gem and jewelry items) are also valid for the importation of any other limited permissibles and nonsensitive canalized items. However, a single item of compo- nents and tools is allowed to be imported up to Rs 1 million. This flexibility is not available to the REP licenses issued for the exportation of gems and jewelry. A manufacturer-exporter may also use the REP licenses issued to him for exportation of prod- ucts manufactured by him for the purpose of im- porting permissible capital goods, including instru- ments and accessories thereof and balancing equipment, without the recommendations of the sponsoring authority and without indigenous clear- ance, provided that the item does not consist of capital goods and instruments on the list of re- stricted capital goods/instruments. This flexibility is also allowed to the nominee of a merchant-exporter. Furthermore, an actual user may obtain up to 50 percent of the value of previous years' licenses under an automatic licensing scheme. Exporters who achieve an average performance of Rs 400 million and Rs 200 million during the preced- ing three years are recognized as Export Houses and Trading Houses, respectively. (Export performance is calculated on the basis of net foreign exchange earnings.) They are issued additional licenses calcu- lated as 10 percent of net foreign exchange earn- ings, or 13 percent if an Export or Trading House achieves a minimum growth of 30 percent in terms of net foreign exchange in the previous year; export- ers with Rs 750 million net foreign exchange earn- ings are given Star Trading House status and are eligible for special additional licenses. The addi- tional licenses are valid for imports of items on the Open General License list. They are also valid, up to 15 percent of the value of the license (20 percent in the case of Trading Houses), for (1) imports of tech- nical designs, drawings, and other technical docu- mentation for a value not exceeding Rs 1 million in the case of Export Houses and Rs 2.5 million in the case of Trading Houses; and (2) imports of items on the list of limited permissible items and nonsensi- tive canalized items provided that (a) imports of a single item do not exceed 10 percent of the flex- ibility, or Rs 1 million, whichever is higher; (b) where the import value of a single item on the basis of 10 percent works out to less than Rs 100,000, the importation is allowed up to Rs 100,000, pro- vided it is within the overall flexibility allowed on the license; and (c) imports of permissible non- OGL capital goods without indigenous clearance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 INDIA are allowed up to a single item value limit of Rs 1.5 million. Within this flexibility of 15 percent (20 per- cent in the case of Trading Houses), these licenses are also valid for imports of up to four samples, subject to a maximum value of Rs 200,000, including Rs 25,000 for samples of consumer goods. In addition, the full value of the additional li- censes may be used for imports of the following items: copper, including copper rods (wrought or unwrought); zinc (or spelter); lead; waste and scrap for remelting (melting scrap of all grades of non- alloy steel in any form or condition, including re- melting scrap ingots); old ships and vessels (except Indian flag vessels) for breaking; rayon grade wood pulp, including tire cord grade wood pulp; all non- alloy and alloy steel items (excluding direct reduced iron in any form); paraxylene, caprolactam, and acrylonitrile. Nonindustrial actual users, such as research and development laboratories, scientific or higher edu- cational institutions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of technical and profes- sional equipment, raw materials, components, spare parts, or other items (but not office machines and consumer goods) under OGL. When a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on pre- sentation of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Contracting of sup- pliers' credits exceeding 180 days and other long- term import credits is subject to prior approval. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed, except for those with respect to import values of up to US$1,000. However, in special cases—for example, imports of machinery and capital goods for which deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers —the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. The importation of certain commodities, includ- ing foodgrains, certain oils and fats, a number of pharmaceutical products, natural rubber, raw cot- ton, raw jute, most fertilizers, most nonferrous met- als, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the Government or state-trading enterprises, the most important of which are the State Trading Cor- poration (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, the Steel Authority of India, Ltd. (SAIL), and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, under the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Center (IRMAC) facility. In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of up to 45 percent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are foodgrains, raw cotton, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles re- quire approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses inci- dental to trade transactions and for transfers of re- curring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals who do not reside permanently in India are to be paid only in foreign currency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pension funds; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance pol- icies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian companies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank ap- proval, provided that certain conditions are met. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on the remit- tance of profits, dividends, and interest to benefi- ciaries whose permanent residence is outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in India on account of their employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than those from the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Africa, up to 50 percent of net income. Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, resident Indian citizens are permitted to travel abroad without "P" form formalities to any country (other than Bhutan, Nepal, and the countries cov- ered by the Neighborhood Trade Scheme (NTS)) once every three'calendar years. For determination of eligibility, all foreign travel other than under the FTS is disregarded. A visit under the FTS can be combined with visits for any other purpose except tours for export promotion and other business mat- ters, pilgrimages, and travel under the NTS. Under ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 231 the FTS, residents are entitled to foreign exchange up to US$500 or its equivalent and a round-trip ticket, irrespective of the carrier on which they travel. For children up to the age of 12, the foreign exchange entitlement is US$250. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book passages under the FTS for any eligible per- son; foreign exchange for such persons may be re- leased by any authorized dealer. Travel to Bangladesh, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, Pakistan, Seychelles, Sin- gapore, and Sri Lanka is governed by the NTS, under which resident Indian citizens visiting neigh- boring countries are eligible for an exchange al- lowance of US$250 a person once every three calen- dar years; this arrangement cannot be combined with the existing FTS. As under the FTS, the foreign exchange entitlement for children up to the age of 12 is one half of the normal quota for adults. Persons obtaining foreign exchange for travel pur- poses are required to pay, unless they are specifi- cally exempted, the Foreign Exchange Conservation (Travel) Tax at the rate of 15 percent at the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange released to them. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or without an allocation of for- eign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage fare is paid in rupees in India. Certain categories of passengers, including persons traveling between India and Nepal by In- dian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and employees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business for their company on one of its carriers are not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank ap- proval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (External) Accounts. The exportation of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is in general prohibited. The exportation to Nepal of Indian cur- rency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 250 a person at any one time for countries other than Nepal when proceeding abroad on a tempo- rary visit. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to US$20 or its equivalent to those proceeding to other coun- tries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded US$1,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and autho- rized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign currency and taken out. Students going to foreign univer- sities with full bursaries receive a foreign exchange allowance of up to US$750 a person for settling in and for purchasing initial equipment. The Foreign Travel Tax, at a rate of Rs 300 a pas- senger, is levied on all passengers embarking on an international journey to any destination other than Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, My- anmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay the tax at a rate of Rs 150 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Most products may be exported without a license, while the exportation of certain items requires a license or is prohibited. In respect of controlled products,8 no item can normally be exported unless it is covered by a valid license issued by the con- cerned licensing authority. Exports to Fiji and South Africa are prohibited. Border trade (i.e., frontier trade) between India and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China is not allowed. An exporter must perform a minimum annual export sale of Rs 50 million and Rs 200 million to qualify as an Export House, and a Trading House, respectively. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export pro- ceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the pro- ceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a foreign person of Indian origin, or he (or his foreign-born wife) is not a permanent resident of India, and the funds do not represent export proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of ship- ment. Exporters are required to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank through authorized dealers in the event of nonrealization of export value within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank also 8The exportation of certain commodities, including sugar, raw ju te, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state- trading enterprises. (Exports of raw ju te are canalized through Jute Corporation of India, Calcutta.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 INDIA administers a scheme under which engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, permitting the realization of export value in install- ments over a period of more than six months. Some exports are prohibited,9 and others, namely coffee, black pepper, mica scrap and waste, and hides, skins, and leather, are subject to export duties. Some others, including footwear, roasted and salted peanuts, man-made fibers, and live sheep and goats, are subject to minimum prices.10 A substantial number of exports, mainly new man- ufactures (such as engineering goods, chemicals, plastic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, ma- rine products, processed food and agricultural products, handicrafts, textiles, and ju te and coir products) receive cash compensatory support, im- port duty drawbacks, refund of central excise duty, and exemptions. Bona fide foreign tourists can, with the approval of customs, take out of India articles purchased with foreign exchange or with rupees acquired against foreign exchange without a value limit; silverware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a limit of Rs 400 a family. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered im- mediately on receipt. The importation of Indian cur- rency notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring into India Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 75 a person (other than notes of Rs 100 or larger) from Nepal, and Indian travelers may bring in Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 250 a person from other countries against evi- dence that they have previously taken out this amount from India while proceeding abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. 9Exports that are prohibited include rock crystal, quartz, some varieties of plants and derivatives, all varieties of forestry foun- dation and breeder seeds, tallow fat and/or oil of any animal origin, rough (uncut and unset) precious stones, sugar cane, frogs' legs, jaggery (unrefined brown sugar), specified animal skins, and human skeletons. (Exports of jaggery are allowed within a quantitative ceiling.) 10Exports of footwear and roasted and salted peanuts are permitted on a decontrolled basis. Capital There are no restrictions on receipts of inward remittances from any country through authorized dealers in India; the subsequent utilization of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enter- prises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized to purchase rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Indian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; permission is granted on a merit basis for any loan that has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the Central Government. Reserve Bank permission is required for initiat- ing, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity; for holding or acquiring shares of any com- pany carrying on a trading, commercial, or indus- trial activity in India by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Indian companies with over 40 percent nonresident interest.11 Foreign investment is gov- 11 Persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside abroad may invest freely in any public or private limited company, in any partnership or proprietorship concern, and in industrial, man- ufacturing, or trade activity (except where the proposed invest- ment is in real estate), provided that the funds required are either remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or are drawn from their Nonresident Accounts, provided that an un- dertaking is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising therefrom will not be requested, and provided that overall limits on holdings of shares and con- vertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by non- resident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas com- panies, societies, and partnership firms, which are owned to the extent of at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin, and overseas trusts in which at least 60 percent of the beneficial interest is irrevocably held by nonresident Indians are also allowed to invest in any public or private limited companies in accordance with the above provisions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies, as defined above, can use funds de- rived from fresh remittances or held in their Nonresident (Exter- nal) or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts to (1) make portfolio investments, with repatriation benefits, up to 1 percent of the capital, provided that their holdings of shares and convert- ible debentures held on either a repatriable or nonrepatriable basis do not exceed (a) 5 percent of the paid-up capital of the company concerned, or (b) 5 percent of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the company concerned; (2) invest freely in National Savings Certificates with fu ll repatriation benefits; (3) invest up to 40 percent of the new equity capital issued by a company (other than a FERA company) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 233 erned by the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA) of 1973. The Reserve Bank will allow com- panies having nonresident interest in excess of 40 percent and up to 74 percent to continue their activities depending on the extent to which the com- pany is engaged in "core" industry or export- oriented production, or in manufacturing activities that require sophisticated technology. Foreign com- panies can retain a 51 percent nonresident equity as long as their combined core sector production in- volving application of sophisticated technology and export production accounts for not less than 60 per- cent of their annual turnover, with a minimum of 10 percent of exports out of their total annual turn- over within a period not exceeding two years from the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of so- phisticated technology, and export production ac- count for not less than 75 percent of their annual turnover, foreign companies can retain 74 percent nonresident ownership. Companies with exports exceeding 40 percent of the total ex-factory cost of annual production are allowed to operate with 51 percent nonresident eq- uity, and those with export performance exceeding 60 percent of total ex-factory cost of annual produc- tion are eligible to retain foreign equity up to 74 per- cent. Companies that export 100 percent of produc- tion and new issues of shares/convertible debentures issued by hotels in the three-, four-, and five-star category may be wholly owned by nonresi- dents. Companies engaged predominantly in trad- ing activities, or not meeting the other criteria listed above, have been required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 percent within a specified period, or to change their activities to meet the above criteria. Branches of foreign companies other setting up industrial manufacturing projects, hospitals (includ- ing diagnostic centers), hotels of at least three-star category, shipping, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; and (4) invest up to 74 percent of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial undertakings in spec- ified priority industries, in hospitals and three-, four-, or five-star hotels, with free repatriation of such investment and income therefrom af ter deduction of applicable domestic taxes. Nonresi- dent Indians and overseas companies, as defined above, can also place funds with public limited companies in India as deposits, with fu ll repatriation benefits, provided (1) the deposits are made for a period of three years; (2) the deposits are made in conformity with the prevailing rules and within the limits pre- scribed for acceptance of deposits by such companies; and (3) the funds are made available by the depositors through re- mittances from abroad or through payments from their Nonresi- dent (External) or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts. Special tax concessions apply to investments by nonresident Indians. than airlines, shipping companies, and liaison of- fices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceeding 75 percent must raise 40 percent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional eq- uity capital issued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 percent but below 75 per- cent and above 51 percent but below 60 percent, the corresponding equity is permitted in companies en- gaged predominantly in internal trading and com- mercial activities. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lend- ing to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 percent. Noncitizens, non-Indian com- panies, and nonbank Indian firms with more than 40 percent foreign participation must obtain Re- serve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable property within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or for- eign nationals to other persons, whether residents or nonresidents. However, the sale and transfer of shares of Indian companies through stock ex- changes in India by nonresidents of Indian na- tionality or origin in favor of citizens of India or persons of Indian origin and Indian companies in which nonresident interest does not exceed 40 per- cent do not require the Reserve Bank's clearance, where the proceeds of such shares sold by the trans- feror are credited to his ordinary nonresident rupee account with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India without a right of repatriation outside India. Residents are prohibited, except with permission from the Reserve Bank, from engaging in any trans- action that increases beyond 49 percent the nonresi- dent share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 percent or less; and they are also prohibited, except with permission from the Reserve Bank, from holding, acquiring, trans- ferring, or disposing of immovable property outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is involved). Residents also require approval from the Reserve Bank to transfer any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Indian law, or an Indian company with over 40 percent foreign participation. Furthermore, approval from the Reserve Bank is required for residents exporting Indian securities and transferring Indian securities to nonresidents. Residents are prohibited, except ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 INDIA with central government or Reserve Bank permis- sion, from guaranteeing the obligation of a nonresi- dent or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except with central government permission, from associating with or participating in any business concern out- side India. Capital invested in approved projects af ter Jan- uary 1,1950 by residents of other countries, includ- ing capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale that involves repatriation of assets. The pro- ceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in no more than four annual installments. The pro- ceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligi- ble for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a reasonable amount in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account, and no fur ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. However, Indian nationals who left the country permanently before the introduction of exchange controls in India (i.e., July 1947, against the erstwhile Sterling Area countries, and September 1939, against other coun- tries) are permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equivalent of Rs 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual install- ments not exceeding Rs 250,000. Foreign nationals who are temporarily residing in India (other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Africa) are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their invest- ments, subject to a limit of Rs 500,000 for each family at the time of retirement, and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remitta- ble assets in India. There are no restrictions on the importation into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisi- tion, sale, transfer, exportation, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nationals temporarily but not permanently residing in India and their foreign- born wives also not permanently residing in India) who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Foreign-born widows of Indian nationals are permitted to transfer abroad their capital assets plus current income up to the equivalent of Rs 500,000 in one lump sum, and the remainder in annual install- ments not exceeding Rs 250,000. Transfers abroad of legacies, inheritances, and bequests by persons who were never residents of India are subject to the same limits. Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports, residing abroad and wishing to return to India to secure suitable em- ployment, start a professional practice, or set up small-scale industrial units are, upon application, exempted for a period of five years from the date of their return to India from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within three months of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, holders may use the funds to im- port machinery, raw materials, and components, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Furthermore, they have the option of surrendering their balances imme- diately, with the right to reacquire them within five years should they decide to return to a foreign coun- try. Balances held in Nonresident (External) Ac- counts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Ac- counts in India by such persons on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion facilities. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings arising from employment abroad with any Indian-owned organ- ization. Foreign nationals in India not permanently residing there are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts; this permission is also extended to foreign nationals of Indian origin who have come to India for employment of a specified duration or for an assignment not exceeding three years. Under the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange Entitlement Scheme, persons of Indian nationality or origin returning to India for permanent residence are entitled to avail themselves of foreign exchange to the extent of 50 percent of the amount they brought in on transfer of residence, plus the balance held in their Nonresident (External) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts for cer- tain specified purposes for which exchange is nor- mally not freely available. Persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange facility within a period of 15 years of the date of return of the head of the family. Gold The Gold Control Act, 1968 has been repealed by the Gold Control Repeal Act, 1990 (on June 6,1990). With the repeal of the Gold Control Act, there is no restriction on trade in gold. However, gold mines ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 235 continue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of silver products are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary au- thorities require special authorization from the Re- serve Bank and are not normally permitted; in cer- tain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manufacture gold and silver jewelry in bond from imported gold and silver for export purposes only. Under the Gold Jewelry Export Promotion Re- plenishment Scheme, exporters of ornaments and articles made of gold of specified fineness are en- titled to replenish their gold (imported by the State Bank of India and supplied at prices set by the Government of India) against Release Orders issued by the licensing authorities, provided that they sat- isfy value added and other requirements of the scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Spe- cial permission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-exportation, provided that payment for the importation will not be required, that the entire quantity of metal im- ported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry, and that the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for exportation with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value, and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, sub- ject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited, un- less effected by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities. The net exportation of gold from India is not permitted. Changes During 1990 Prescription of Currency December 31. India's bilateral trade arrangement with Poland was terminated. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The Import-Export Policy for 1990/91- 1992/93 went into effect, with the following changes: (1) Regarding import policy for exporters, (a) REP licenses were made totally flexible for the importation of raw materials and components in- cluded in the permissible and canalized lists; (b) the importation of capital goods (other than those on the restricted list) by exporters using their own REP licenses was allowed; (c) REP licenses were provided for service exports; (d) REP entitle- ment ratios were modified, whereby higher value- added products were given the advantage of higher ratios, and the number of ratios was reduced; (e) a blanket advance licensing scheme was introduced for established exporters, while the import-export passbook system was abolished; and (f) exporters of manufactured goods were allowed to import capi- tal goods up to a certain limit at concessional rates of customs duty. (2) Regarding other licensing schemes, (a) 82 capital goods and 55 items of raw materials, compo- nents and consumables, computer and computer- based systems meeting certain specifications, some life-saving drugs and equipment, and 12 precision and quality instruments were allowed to be im- ported under OGL, while 17 capital goods were removed from the OGL list and 5 precision and quality control instruments were included on the restricted list; (b) imports of 5 industrial raw mate- rials were decanalized; (c) an automatic licensing scheme (up to 50 percent of the value of the pre- vious year's licenses) was introduced for actual users; and (d) the Industrial Raw Materials Assis- tance Center (IRMAC) scheme was simplified to facilitate the supply of imported inputs for small- scale units. (3) Other changes affecting the import system were: (a) the list attestation procedures for indus- trial actual users were eliminated for imports of electronic components appearing on the OGL list, and (b) a Star Trading House status was introduced for exporters with Rs 750 million net foreign ex- change earnings, and they would be eligible for special additional licenses. April 1. With the introduction of the 1990/91 bud- get: (1) the existing customs duty rates (basic plus auxiliary) on imported items were rationalized; (2) customs duties were increased on a broad range of items, including chemicals and petrochemicals, iron and steel, and nonferrous metals; (3) customs duties were reduced on imports of pharmaceuticals, standard newsprint, textiles, stainless steel, and various machinery; and (4) regulations regarding importation under baggage rules were revised, in- cluding an increase in the free allowance to Rs 2,000 from Rs 1,250. June 20. Duty drawback rates were increased for a wide range of products covering various industries, and 21 items were added to the list of products eligible for duty drawbacks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 INDIA July 20. "Deemed export status" was extended to indigenous suppliers of capital goods, and "deemed export benefits" were granted to indige- nous suppliers of machinery against licenses granted to exporters under the concessional duty scheme on their acceptance of export obligations; export obligations are three times the value of ma- chinery supplied and are to be achieved over a period of four years. July 20. Licensing requirements were imposed on 37 categories of capital goods, which were pre- viously imported under the OGL. The goods in- cluded machine tools, machinery for making tele- communications, electronics equipment, and similar items. The amount of foreign exchange released for im- ports of raw materials and components required by the consumer durable sectors was reduced by 15 percent. Similar cuts were also announced for the automobile and electronics sectors. November 12. The basic customs duty on high- grade, raw, ground sponge iron imported for the manufacture of iron powder was increased to 50 percent from 30 percent ad valorem. The basic and auxiliary customs duties on spec- ified fur skins were reduced to 20 percent and 5 per- cent ad valorem, respectively. They were also fully exempted from the additional duty. November 13. The customs duty on computer equipment and software was reduced by 25 per- cent. The additional duty on these products was fully exempted, subject to fulfillment of certain ex- port obligations. Specific items, when imported for use in ready- made garments or the hosiery industry, were ex- empted from the basic customs duty in excess of 40 percent ad valorem, and the auxiliary duty in excess of 5 percent ad valorem. December 15. The auxiliary duty rates on imports were increased, as follows: (1) for product catego- ries, which are subject to the rates of 30 percent or 45 percent, to 50 percent; and (2) for product cate- gories subject to the rate of 5 percent, to 25 percent. The import duties (basic plus auxiliary) were raised, as follows: (1) for carpet grade wool, from 5 percent to 10 percent; (2) for other raw wool, from 25 per- cent to 40 percent; (3) for rayon grade wood pulp, from 5 percent to 25 percent; and (4) for other wool pulp, from 5 percent to 10 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The following changes were introduced in the Import-Export Policy for 1990/91-1992/93: (1) exports of some 190 product items were regu- lated (of this total, 68 were not allowed for exporta- tion, 31 were put on the "merits" list, 25 were put on the "limited ceiling" list, 18 were canalized, and 48 were allowed under OGL on specific conditions); (2) the bank guarantee requirement for exports of ceiling items was eliminated, and the authority to revalidate export licenses relating to ceiling items was delegated to regional licensing authorities; (3) the minimum threshold level of export sales to qualify exporters as Export Houses and Trading Houses was increased to Rs 50 million and Rs 200 million, from Rs 20 million and Rs 100 million, respectively. Capital May 1. The Government liberalized foreign in- vestment policy, by allowing automatic approval of foreign investment proposals of foreign companies with equity shares of up to 40 percent. Under the new regulations, the landed value of imported capi- tal goods may not exceed 30 percent of the value of plant and machinery financed with operations in- volving foreign investment. Gold June 6. The Gold Control Repeal Act was promulgated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. The exchange value of the rupiah is deter- mined by Bank Indonesia under a system of man- aged float. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. On December 29, 1990, the buying and selling rates for spot transactions were Rp 1,897 and Rp 1,903, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the rates in the Bourse for the U.S. dollar and rates for the currencies concerned in interna- tional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Since September 1989, Bank Indonesia's an- nounced exchange rate applies only to certain trans- actions undertaken at particular times of the day. For all other transactions, banks are free to set their own rates. The purchase and sale of foreign currency bills by Bank Indonesia are conducted from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on the basis of an indicative rate announced at 8:00 a.m. This rate is also used for swap and reswap transactions as well as for export draft discounts with Bank Indonesia. Spot and for- ward transactions, however, are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between Bank Indonesia and the bank concerned. From 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday and from 11:30 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturday, Bank Indonesia fixes a rate for spot transactions with banks; such transactions are normally conducted to enable the banks to ar- rive at their net open position. All transactions be- tween Bank Indonesia and other banks may be concluded through the dealing room using telecommunications. Foreign exchange transactions are restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institutions, and licensed money changers. Bank Indonesia stands ready to trade un- limited amounts of foreign exchange or rupiah with authorized traders at its intervention rates for the day. Bank Indonesia provides to banks and other financial institutions forward cover in the form of foreign exchange/rupiah swaps at forward premia on foreign exchange to Bank Indonesia, matched by a forward purchase. The facility is provided to cover bona fide offshore borrowing only. Since October 27, 1988, the minimum premium on off i- cial swaps, which was previously set by Bank In- donesia at the fixed rate of 8 percent, has been set on the basis of prevailing market conditions as indicated by the d ifference between the average domestic deposit rate and LIBOR. On Decem- ber 31, 1990, the annual premium on official swaps was 12.0625 percent for a 1-month swap; 12.3750 percent for a 1- to 3-month swap; 12.5625 percent for a 3- to 6-month swap; 12.4375 percent for a 6- to 12-month swap; and 12.4395 percent for a swap exceeding 12 months. Premia on operations with longer maturities are quoted only for the f irst 12 months. The Govern- ment does not make any commitment on the size of the premium beyond a 12-month period. Since the end of March 1989, foreign exchange banks must limit their net open position on a daily basis to less than 25 percent of their own capital. The net open position is defined as the net balance between foreign exchange assets and liabilities a f ter the administrative position is taken into ac- count. A bank that maintains a net open position exceeding the limit will be subject to a sanction. Indonesia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom May 7, 1988. Administration of Control Administration of the exchange and trade sys- tem is en trus ted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, foreign ex- change banks, and the customs authorities. Pol- icies on foreign exchange market operations are taken by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's international transactions —that is, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized foreign exchange banks and are nor- mally effected in convertible currencies. Indonesia maintains no operative bilateral payments agreements. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 INDONESIA Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by resi- dents or foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiah or foreign currencies with authorized for- eign exchange banks. However, if the account holder in foreign exchange wishes to withdraw funds, he must send a letter to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers. Only Indonesian nationals can be authorized as im- porters, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of specified products. The only secondhand goods that may be imported are machinery or factory machinery used for producing export products. Certain categories of agricultural imports, including different categories of food, bev- erages, and fruits, may be imported only by regis- tered importers designated by the Minister of Trade. The procurement policies of companies ap- proved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic bev- erages, and chickens are evaluated annually by the Government, although explicit quantitative restric- tions are not placed on these products. Since November 1988, import controls on 689 products (e.g., certain chemicals, steel, foods and beverages, textiles, and agricultural products) have been changed. Controls remain on about 800 prod- ucts. Imports of certain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enter- prises. Pertamina has a monopoly on the importa- tion of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and PT Dahana, on the importation of ammunition and ex- plosive gelatin. The Board of Logistics (BULOG) has the sole right to import rice, fertilizer, and sugar, but its monopoly on maize imports was revoked in Sep- tember 1989. The monopoly rights of approved im- porters (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importation of certain heavy equipment and motor vehicles, although this right may be transferred to general importers. Restrictions on the importation of trucks were removed in October 1990. Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Imports into Indonesia are subject to preship- ment inspection in the exporting country by private international agencies; the inspection cost is borne by the Indonesian Government. Following inspec- tion, these agencies are required to issue a survey report (LKP) specifying the type, quality, quantity, and estimated cost of the goods, the applicable tariff code, freight charges, import duties, and value- added taxes; in the case of imports without a letter of credit, the LKP must be sent to an Indonesian bank designated by the importer, which in turn must send the bill of lading and the LKP to a foreign exchange bank. In the case of imports under letters of credit, the LKP is sent to the correspondent banks. After paying duties (which are determined on the declared c . i .f. value or the c.i.f. value as estimated by private international agencies) and taxes to the bank, the importer is given the bill of lading and the validated LKP, which he must pres- ent to customs for release of the shipment. The Directorate General of Customs and Excise does not examine goods that have an LKP, except those that are valued at less than US$5,000 or are suspected to be illegally imported. Imports for foreign capital investment and domestic capital investment must have an LKP. Cement-asbestos sheets, dry bat- teries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of rawhides of cattle, certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, certain logs and timber, brass and copper scrap (except from Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, antiques of cultural value, and raw rattan. Since 1987, exporters are no longer required to ob- tain exporters' identification numbers (APE and APET) to carry out export activities. Exporters are only required to possess trade permits, or "Surat Izin Usaha" (SIU), which are issued by relevant government institutions. Certain producer- exporters of rubber, plywood, and animal feed may issue certificates of quality for their products. Quality controls are also maintained on exports of fish, manioc, shrimp, coffee, tea, pepper, spices, vegetable oil, and cocoa beans. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities are controlled by a requirement of prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw materials.2 Concern with domestic price stability sometimes involves suspen- 2Items affected by such controls include cloue seeds, logs, fertilizer, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, auto- mobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods from subsidized raw materials. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 239 sion of exports of various items on this list. In 1990, exports of cement and clinker were allowed with the approval of the Ministry of Trade and they were to be carried out by producer/exporters of cement and clinkers, as shortages developed on the domestic market. Exports of several categories of gold and silver may be conducted only by exporters who pos- sess certification from PT Aneka Tambang and a recommendation authorization from the Ministry of Trade. Most other products are freely exported by regis- tered private firms and state trading firms. How- ever, manioc (cassava) may only be exported by ap- proved exporters, and only to non-EC countries. As of November 1, 1989, pepper has been exempted from certain previous export restrictions and may henceforth be exported by all companies possessing a license (SIUP). Exports of nutmeg/mace, cas- siavera, tengkewang seeds, coffee, and vegetables from North Sumatra have been liberalized since May 1990. Exports of textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consuming countries may be effected only by approved textile exporters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commodity Ex- change Board. All exports of woods and wood products must be examined before shipment, and exports of sawn timber and wood products require approval from the joint marketing body and may be conducted only by approved exporters. A minimum price of US$250 a cubic meter applies to exports of sawn and processed timber and export taxes ranging from US$250 to US$2,400 a cubic meter are imposed on these products. While the rate of export tax for raw logs is levied in the range of US$500 to US$4,800 a cubic meter, certain processed woods, such as finger-jointed walls, panel, and moulding are not taxed. Certain other products are subject to an ex- port tax, specifically: natural sands, 10 percent; semiprocessed rattan for cultural purposes, 30 per- cent; and specific rattan, 20 percent. For all goods subject to the export tax and the export surcharge, payment is due when the exports are registered with foreign exchange banks. If the export tax and export surcharge are not yet settled at the time of registration, exporters are required to submit promissory notes for their value. Prom- issory notes may be settled in three ways. For ex- ports without letters of credit, they should be set- tled with the foreign exchange bank not later than 30 days from the date of export registration. For exports using consignment and usance letters of credit, they should be settled not later than 90 days from the date of export registration. For exports with sight letter of credit conditions, they must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. Since October 1989, the special permit for export- ing coffee (Surat Perjanjian Ekspor Kopi, or SPEK), which was formerly allowed only from certain provinces, has been eliminated, and shipments have been allowed from all provinces in Indonesia. This decision was made in light of the suspension of coffee export quotas by the International Coffee Or- ganization (ICO). In January 1990, subsidized ex- port credits were removed completely. There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangement exporters may use. There is no sur- render requirement for export proceeds. In the cal- culation of export taxes on the principal com- modities other than petroleum and gas, sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices deter- mined periodically by the Minister of Trade. To enable producer/exporters to obtain their im- ported inputs at international prices, exporters and suppliers of inputs for exporters are permitted to bypass the import-licensing system and import tar- i f fs or, if they cannot bypass the system, to reclaim import duties; the costs imposed by nontariff bar- riers, however, cannot be rebated.3 Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain goods. In this "border- crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions must not exceed M$600 for a single trip or M$3,000 a month, whether trans- ported overland or by sea. For the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single trip if transported by seagoing vessel, or US$1,500 if transported by smaller boats. Since January 1982, the Indonesian Government has, at its option, required all foreign firms bidding for government-sponsored construction or procure- ment projects, of which the import component has a value of over Rp 500 million, to agree to fulfill a counterpurchase obligation. Bidders for projects that include counterpurchase requirements must 3Under this scheme, exporters are classified as producer/ exporters (firms that export at least 65 percent of their total production) or as exporter-producers (firms that export 85 per- cent of their production and producers of textiles in general). Producer-exporters may bring into the country their imports free of licensing restrictions and import duties, but with ex post documentation. If exporter-producers can demonstrate that their output was, or will be, exported or that their output was an input in an exported output, then they can also receive the same permission to import their inputs as producer-exporters. The scheme also allows indirect exporters to reclaim import duties through a duty drawback facility. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 INDONESIA submit with their bids a letter agreeing to purchase and export the equivalent of the contract's value in selected Indonesian products (f .o.b.) during the life of the contract.4 Goods that may be used to meet the counterpurchase requirement include agricultural products, and manufactured and other products, excluding petroleum, natural gas, and items subject to export quotas. The foreign supplier may fulfill the counterpurchase requirement either directly or through a third party, possibly from another coun- try that is acceptable to the Indonesian Govern- ment. Such an arrangement must meet the condi- tion of "additionally"; that is, the counterpurchases by the third party have to be in addition to regular exports from Indonesia. Indonesian products other than oil and natural gas purchased under coun- tertrade arrangements must be shipped regularly and in stages during the validity of the contract on the government procurement, and these shipment obligations have to be completed at the end of such purchasing contract. If, at the end of the completion of the project/implementation of the purchase (gov- ernment import), the exportation from Indonesia has not been completed, either partly or entirely, a penalty will be imposed on the successful bidder of the tender or on the party to whom such obligation has been delegated, to the extent of 50 percent of the export value (to date this provision has not been implemented). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are neither restricted nor subject to control. Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but only Rp 50,000 in Indonesian notes and coins other than gold and silver com- memorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed primarily by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 10, 1967, as subsequently amended by a number of presidential guidelines and decrees. Since January 1974, all foreign direct investments have been required to be undertaken through joint 4The following are exempted from these requirements: (1) sources of import financing that are derived from soft loans, and loans from the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Asian Development Bank; (2) domestic components contained in the contract with the foreign suppliers, such as components of services, goods, and taxes/duties; (3) services that are used by various government agencies related to specific expertise, such as foreign accountants, lawyers, surveyors, con- sultants7 services, purchases of technology (patents), etc.; and (4) purchases or imports under the joint-venture system be- tween state companies and foreign companies. ventures with Indonesian partners. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the president on the recommendation of the Capital Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM). Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indone- sian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign investment is usu- ally valid for a maximum of 30 years. In general, the local partner in a joint-venture enterprise must own at least 20 percent of the eq- uity, and its share must increase to 51 percent within 15 years of the commencement of produc- tion. For enterprises with an investment of more than US$10 million, those located in one of the ten designated developing provinces, or those export- ing more than 65 percent of their production, the minimum Indonesian ownership is 5 percent; this percentage increases to 20 percent after 10 years and to 51 percent in 15 years. This period may be ex- tended if certain conditions are met. A foreign joint-venture enterprise located in a bonded zone or in zones with the status of private entrepots and exporting 100 percent of its produc- tion is allowed to have national share participation of 5 percent or more; there is no obligation to increase the share participation. A foreign joint-venture en- terprise may be treated as a domestic enterprise if at least 45 percent of the share is owned by Indonesian nationals, with a minimum 20 percent being sold through the stock market. Investment incentives for foreign capital invest- ment in existence before 1984 in the form of tax holidays, investment allowances, loss compensa- tion, and exemptions from dividend taxes have been abolished. The incentives currently applied for for- eign investments are an exemption or relief from import duties on capital goods, raw materials, aux- iliary goods, and spare parts. There is an annual depreciation allowance of 25 percent for fiscal pur- poses on virtually all machinery and other produc- tive capital goods and deferral of value-added tax on imports of capital goods. All foreign enterprises (PMAs) are eligible to re- ceive customs duty incentives for their imported raw materials needed for two years' production ac- tivity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65 percent of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to maintain its export commitments. Managers of representative offices of INDONESIA 241 financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, how- ever, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. There are no limitations on the remittance to In- donesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign ex- change banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresi- dents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. Since October 27, 1988, a 2 percent reserve requirement is applicable to the foreign cur- rency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no re- serve requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank financial institutions or pri- vate companies. Certain borrowing abroad must be cleared by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrow- ing must be reported to Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Offshore borrowing by finan- cial institutions is not regulated, but the net open foreign exchange position is limited to not more than 25 percent of own capital for foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required be- fore any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign na- tionality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiah or in for- eign currency. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed principally by the Petroleum Law of 1960. Gold Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments May 28. The following import liberalization policy was announced: (1) licensing requirements for 371 goods, including certain machinery steel products, electronic products, and pharmaceuticals were re- moved; (2) tariff rates on 2,363 products (out of 7,176 tariff items) were reduced, and tariff rates above 40 percent were virtually eliminated; and (3) split tariffs were eliminated, and surcharges on 53 products (out of 223) were removed. May 28. The import tariff rates on 224 products were increased. October 10. The import tariff rate on certain types of cement was reduced to 10 percent. October 27 and 30. The import prohibition on com- pletely built trucks was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds January 29. In accordance with the GATT agree- ment, subsidized export credits were abolished. April 17. Exports of cement were subject to control. May 28. The following export liberalization policy was announced: (1) exports of nutmeg/mace, cas- savera, tengkwang seeds, coffee, and vegetables from North Sumatra were permitted without ap- proval from their respective marketing boards; (2) export taxes on processed sandalwood, laka, and gaharu were removed; and (3) the procedure for testing the quality of fresh and frozen shrimp was simplified. October 19. The export tax on 15 groups of wood products, including finger-jointed wood, decora- tive mouldings, and wall panels, was eliminated. Indonesia has issued two commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indo- nesia. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970, and up to Capital January 29. Joint-venture banks and foreign banks were permitted to open branch offices in Batan Is- land, which is being developed as an export pro- cessing zone. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.300 - SDR 1. The official exchange rates in terms of the U.S dollar are determined daily on the basis of the SDR-rial rate. On December 31, 1990, the official buying and selling rates of Bank Markazi Jomhouri Islami Iran (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were Rls 64.857 and Rls 65.757, respec- tively, per US$1. In addition to the basic official exchange rate, which is applied mainly to exports of oil, imports of essential goods, military items, cer- tain raw materials and machinery, foreign exchange allowances for certain invisibles, and public sector capital transactions, the exchange rate system also consists of two "incentive" rates that apply to non- oil exports, a "preferential" rate and a "competitive" rate that apply to certain imports, a "service" rate used for some invisibles, and the "free" market exchange rate that applies only to Iranian nationals residing in the Islamic Republic of Iran. The follow- ing transactions take place at rates that d iffer from the official rate: (1) exporters of non-oil products are required to surrender to Bank Markazi a certain proportion of their export earnings (calculated on the basis of "reference prices") at the official rate plus Rls 350 per US$1 when proceeds are received in a convertible currency, or at the official rate plus Rls 270 per US$1 when exports take place within the framework of a barter or a clearing arrangement. The proportion of export earnings that must be sur- rendered varies according to the type of export; the remaining proceeds may be sold in the free market. On December 31,1990, the exchange rate in the free market was equivalent to approximately Rls 1,458 per US$1; (2) the preferential exchange rate of Rls 420 per US$1 is applied to imports of spare parts used in the production of some durable goods; (3) the preferential competitive exchange rate is ap- plied to imports of raw materials and spare parts for the production of 131 items (at the end of Decem- ber 1990, this exchange rate was Rls 800 per US$1); (4) the service rate of Rls 845 per US$1 is applied to the sale of foreign exchange for certain invisible transactions; and (5) all other transactions take place in the free market, in which currently only Iranian nationals residing in the Islamic Republic of Iran are allowed to operate. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions other than those permitted through the free exchange market must take place through this Bank or autho- rized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce af ter approval by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which the Is- lamic Republic of Iran maintains bilateral payments agreements are conducted in accordance with the terms of those agreements.1 The unit of account of these agreements is usually the U.S. dollar. Settlements of current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (Ban- gladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) are required to be effected in Asian Mone- tary Units (AMUs).2 Final settlement, when neces- sary, takes place by converting AMUs to an agreed currency. The Islamic Republic of Iran also main- tains a trilateral payments arrangement with Pakistan and Turkey within the framework of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and De- velopment, for settlements in respect of petroleum and petroleum products and certain services. Bank- ing arrangements have been concluded with major Western European banks to establish "Special Ac- counts" for clearing payments related to the sale of crude oil in exchange for purchase of a variety of products and raw materials. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts and foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. The rial funds to be deposited to the rial accounts must have originated through the sale of foreign 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, Syrian Arab Republic, and the U.S.S.R. 2Pakistan, being a par ty to a separate agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran, settles its payments through that agree- ment instead of in AMUs. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 243 exchange to the banking system. The foreign cur- rencies to be deposited must have originated abroad. The balance of the rial accounts may be used only in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Imports and Import Payments All imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran are required to be authorized by the Ministry of Com- merce (except for special military and pharmaceuti- cal goods, and souvenirs and gifts brought in by incoming travelers) before being registered by au- thorized banks. Imports from Israel and South Af- rica are prohibited. The foreign exchange budget, which is approved by Parliament, establishes alloca- tions for imports by the different ministries and institutions, which then decide how to distribute their own allocations among the different items and between the public and private sectors. All imports require the prior approval of the procurement and distribution organizations, except for goods im- ported by the Ministry of Defense and certain other military goods. The import policy is re-examined periodically at the end of each Iranian calendar year (March 20) and new regulations, effective for the next year, are published by the Ministry of Com- merce. The regulations distinguish between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. Authorized goods are those whose imports, with due consideration for the regulations, are per- mitted. Unauthorized goods are those whose im- ports are temporarily prohibited by the Govern- ment or are contingent on the fulfillment of certain requirements (as explained in the relative tariff). Prohibited goods consist of those whose transac- tions are forbidden. At the time of registration of imports, (1) a regis- tration fee of 15 percent of the value of the order for ordinary goods and of 5 percent of the value of the order for essential goods, calculated on a c . i . f. basis, is collected by authorized banks; and (2) for some goods, importers must also deposit with Bank Markazi, through an authorized bank, an additional 15 percent of the c . i . f. value of these goods. Most food items and certain other products are, however, exempt from this registration deposit requirement. The registration deposit, which is not interest bear- ing, is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate or when the order is canceled. If less than 90 percent of the registration value is used, the amount of refund of the registration deposit is in proportion to the unused amount of the registered order. Bank Markazi may permit, when necessary, the transfer of imports from the category in which a registration deposit is required to the exempt cate- gory, and vice versa. Most imports are subject to commercial benefit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed in addition to any applicable customs duty. Monopoly taxes, if any, are included in the commercial benefit taxes. The authorities specify in the export-import regulations the rate of com- mercial benefit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and of a permit issued by the relevant procurement and distribution organiza- tions (this permit may be issued at the time of opening of letters of credit and need not be re- issued). Goods that are not covered by any such organizations do not require a permit. Some goods, such as pharmaceuticals, imports by the Ministry of Post, Telegraph and Telephone, and imports of the Atomic Energy Organization, must be accompanied by a special permit when they are cleared through customs. In the transportation of imported goods for which letters of credit have been opened, priority should be accorded to the Iranian transportation carriers (air, land, or sea). The ceiling on the amount of goods that an in- coming traveler is permitted to import is governed by the export-import regulations. Payments for Invisibles The transfer of premiums for reinsurance is per- mitted at the daily rate upon the request of the respective insurance company and with the ap- proval of the Central Insurance Company of Iran. Foreign nationals working in the Islamic Republic of Iran whose services are considered essential are allowed to remit up to 30 percent of their net sal- aries, with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Limits on remittances by physicians vary from 15 to 60 percent of earnings, depending on the location and condition of their work, as defined by the Min- istry of Health. Possession of a valid passport and a work permit is required for the above-mentioned remittances. Persons needing medical treatment abroad may obtain foreign exchange up to the amount specified by the High Medical Council of the Ministry of Health at the basic official exchange rate. Those patients whose need for treatment abroad is of- ficially certified but who are not authorized to pur- chase foreign exchange at the basic official exchange rate, and those patients who are permitted to obtain foreign exchange at the basic official exchange rate but who do not receive the total amount needed to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN finance their medical treatment may purchase addi- tional foreign exchange needed for medical pur- poses at the service rate. Foreign exchange allowances for students study- ing abroad are provided at the basic official ex- change rate with the approval of the Ministry of Higher Education. Allowances vary according to the cost of living in the country of study, up to a max- imum of US$1,170 per month; an additional al- lowance of 60 percent and 30 percent of the basic allowance is provided, respectively, for the spouse and for each child. In certain cases, where this al- lowance is not sufficient to cover tuition, additional amounts to cover university fees and expenses are provided. Students not eligible to receive al- lowances at the official exchange rate may be granted up to US$150 a month as financial assis- tance at the service rate. An annual foreign exchange allowance of US$500 is granted for business travel at the official rate on approval by the Ministry of Commerce. In addi- tion, up to US$300 at the service rate is granted for travel once a year, irrespective of the purpose or destination. Iranian nationals leaving the country must pay an exit fee per trip of Rls 50,000 for the first trip and Rls 100,000 for successive trips. Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out with them up to Rls 20,000 in Iranian bank notes. The equivalent of US$5,000 may be taken out without declaration at the time of each trip. Foreign currency over this amount may be taken out pro- vided that it was declared at the time of arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all products are subject to prevailing regulations on foreign trade. The commercial bene- fit tax and customs duty levied on imported raw materials that are used in the production of man- ufactured goods for export are refunded to the ex- porter after the export has taken place. Exporters of non-oil products are allowed to import authorized goods up to the value of goods exported. They may also transfer the declared foreign exchange earn- ings to other individuals for import of certain goods. Export proceeds must be sold to banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks ac- cept export proceeds normally in currencies quoted by Bank Markazi. With the prior approval of Bank Markazi, other currencies may also be accepted. Proceeds from oil exports are converted at the basic official exchange rate, while those from non-oil ex- ports are effectively converted at various multiple rates, depending on the proportion of earnings re- quired to be surrendered (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above). In addition, those exporters surrendering foreign exchange equivalent to the value of exports immediately af ter approval of the export documentation, and those exporters using documentary letters of credit, are allowed to retain an additional 2 percent of their export proceeds, which is not subject to surrender requirements. Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Iranian nationals may retain their foreign ex- change earnings, if earned abroad, in foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic authorized banks. Transfers abroad from such accounts do not require the approval of Bank Markazi. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange foreign travelers may bring into the country, but they must sell at least US$150 to US$300 (as specified by the Islamic Republic of Iran's consular officials upon the issu- ance of entry permits) to the authorized banks. Muslim citizens of other countries and citizens of countries that are party to bilateral agreements are exempt from this regulation. Foreign truck drivers, when entering the Islamic Republic of Iran, must convert US$100 worth of convertible currencies into rials; the amount applicable to Turkish truck drivers is US$50. Travelers may bring into the country up to Rls 20,000 in Iranian bank notes. The equivalent of US$5,000 may be brought into the country without declaration at the time of each trip. Capital Foreign capital investment is supervised by the Organization for Investment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. Repatriation of foreign capital and dividends can be made at the basic official exchange rate with the approval of the said organi- zation and Bank Markazi, and in accordance with the Law Concerning the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Capital Investments. Disbursements and authorizations of public sector loans take place at the basic official exchange rate. The net short-term for- eign liabilities of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 27 percent. Gold No Iranian gold coin is legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold, platinum, and silver in the domestic mar- ket. The importation and exportation of gold for monetary purposes are reserved for Bank Markazi. Authorized banks may import gold, platinum, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 245 silver bullion with the prior approval of Bank Mark- azi. Imports for industrial and dental use are effected by professional organizations at the official rate and subject to supervision by Bank Markazi; such imports are subject to customs duty, the com- mercial benefit levy, and an import registration fee. The exportation of gold, platinum, and silver in the form of ingots or coins, except by Bank Markazi, is prohibited. The exportation of finished articles made of gold, platinum, and silver may be effected in accordance with the relevant regulations. Pas- sengers may, without prior approval of Bank Mark- azi, bring in jewelry with a value equivalent to Rls 5 million, which will be recorded in their passports so that the same may be re-exported. Imports of per- sonal jewelry with a value exceeding this amount require the approval of Bank Markazi. The exporta- tion of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval by Bank Markazi. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement June 16. Importers without access to more prefer- ential official foreign exchange were permitted to obtain foreign exchange from the banking system at market-related rates. Non-oil exporters were autho- rized to obtain from the banking system all foreign exchange required for the importation of raw mate- rials, machinery, and spare parts needed for export production purposes. August 12. The number of items for which raw materials and spare parts can be imported at the preferential competitive rate was increased from 131 to 220, while the list of imports allowed through the official market was reduced. Prescription of Currency January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China was terminated. March 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia was terminated. June 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Turkey was terminated. October3. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland was terminated. November 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Pakistan was terminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 = US$3.2169. The official buying and selling rates on December 31, 1990 were US$3.2249 and US$3.2089, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only with authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this au- thority has been delegated to the Governor and his Deputy, who act on recommendations submitted by an Advisory Committee on Foreign Exchange. Cer- tain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Banking Su- pervision of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Governor. Branches of the Rafi- dain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed dealers. The Ministry of Trade formulates import policy and the annual program. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or by drawing on a nonresident account in Iraqi dinars, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities are normally handled by the socialized sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects benefiting from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973 (for old contracts), or from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985 (for new projects). Under Resolution No. 767 of October 1, 1987, foreign companies implementing development pro- jects in Iraq are exempted from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementation of these projects, including income taxes due on earn- ings of their non-Iraqi workers. These exemptions apply to new projects that are contracted after the effective date of Resolution No. 767. The Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985, ceased to be effective, except that its provisions continue to apply to projects that were contracted before Reso- lution No. 767 took effect. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import pro- gram. Imports of all goods from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 percent is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75 percent is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge according to the available list of classified goods. The Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the ex- change control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Imports financed by foreign ex- change obtained by nonresident Iraqis are given special import licenses. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 247 medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are per- mitted, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, to transfer up to 50 percent of annual income ac- crued to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the particular contract extends this limit up to 75 percent for old contracts or 60 percent for new contracts. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts pro- vided for in those contracts; those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 for each person who is not insured and ID 20 for each person who is insured and is working in the private sector. Noncontractual workers employed by the Government are entitled to ID 40 a person a month for skilled workers em- ployed in the nationalized sector. Persons under 16 years and over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. The regulations provide, in principle, for a basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad on the basis of the classification of foreign countries into two categories as follows. The basic allowance for travel to a country in the first category is ID 300 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 150 for persons under 18 years of age) traveling to Arab and socialist countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey. For the second category, which includes all other coun- tries, the basic allowance is ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years of age). The individual exchange allowance for official missions abroad to countries in the first category ranges between ID 30 and ID 60 a person a day depending on status and duration of mission; for countries in the second category, the allowance ranges between ID 40 and ID 75 a day. Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain countries (such as In- dia, socialist countries, and North Africa), where students are paid a fixed amount in U.S. dollars. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance, in traveler's checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to transfer the equivalent of ID 250 for personal expenses in addition to all other traveling expenses paid to the local travel agent. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons un- der 18 years. Exchange allowances for pilgrimage are unrelated to other traveling allowances during the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are pro- hibited. The Ministry of Trade has authority to pro- hibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are li- censed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Services. Exporters of goods manufactured by firms in the public sector (consisting of some 13 items) must undertake to repatriate 60 percent of their foreign exchange pro- ceeds through the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank and to surrender them within two months of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with the commercial banks for a period of three years, and use them to pay for imports that are licensed. Financial support is granted under an export sub- sidy fund established in 1969 for the purpose of assisting non-oil exports to provide financial incen- tives to eligible exports. The scheme is intended to introduce Iraqi goods abroad, whether from the private or socialist sector, and to improve their com- petitive position. The financial subsidies are granted upon presentation of the necessary documents. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 from invisibles must be surrendered within three months to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Is- raeli currency), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Iraqi nationals are allowed to bring in convertible foreign currencies, deposit them with a licensed dealer, and use the funds to purchase goods from duty-free shops. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South Africa, but they must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Rev- olutionary Command Council, enacted in Novem- ber 1980, no foreign (defined as non-Arab) par- ticipation is allowed in the capital of private sector companies, but citizens of Arab states may partici- pate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agri- cultural services, and tourism sectors. All transfers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 IRAQ of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Iraqi nationals, foreigners, and nonresidents may trans- fer foreign exchange to Iraq and deposit it with a licensed dealer in accounts bearing interest rates comparable to the international rates. Balances on these accounts with interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds were deposited with licensed dealers within three months of transfer. Iraqi nationals resident abroad (or their legal representatives) may with- draw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 10,000 a year in three installments to cover per- sonal expenses inside the country. Under the Industrial Investment Regulation Law for private and mixed sectors (No. 115 of 1982), certain incentives and guarantees are granted to approved investments of domestic or Arab capital in Iraq. In addition, Arab capital invested in Iraq is accorded preferential treatment in different eco- nomic sectors. Arab farmers having contracts with the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation are per- mitted to transfer abroad annually up to 50 percent of their individual net return, subject to a limit of ID 500. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one half of their productive life left. Investments by Arab na- tionals are encouraged by Arab Investment Law No. 46 of 1988. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to participate in enterprises in which their capital par- ticipation does not exceed 49 percent, provided that their contribution and profits will be paid in Iraqi dinars and the minimum capital of the enterprise is ID 0.5 million, and (2) Arab investors to transfer annually up to 100 percent of profits to be dis- tributed to them, provided that the profit does not exceed 20 percent of their paid-in capital. Gold Under Resolution No. 801 dated October 10,1987, an Iraqi resident, nonresident, or foreigner may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and unworked gold, regardless of its weight, provided that it is declared upon importation. Iraqi residents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding 100 grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out with them worked gold that they brought with them for personal use when they entered Iraq. The expor- tation and importation of gold for commercial pur- poses are not permitted. Changes During 1990 Export and Export Proceeds February 5. Exporters of goods, other than those manufactured by firms in the public sector (consist- ing of some 13 items), were permitted to retain their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with the commercial banks for a period of three years and to use them to pay for licensed imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ger- many, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Ireland maintains spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Spanish peseta and the pound sterling, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ireland stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1990, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas Irish Upper Limit Pounds Lower Limit 1.8510 10.0087 38.1825 11.3830 0.510246 33.8868 1.1692 0.609772 1.7695 9.5683 36.4964 10.8825 0.487799 32.3939 1.0371 0.540858 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed limits. On December 31,1990, the official midpoint closing rate for the U.S. dollar was US$1.7749 per £Irl. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Access to the forward exchange market is regu- lated. Forward cover is permitted for the importa- tion and exportation of goods and services, and forward contracts may either correspond in all as- pects to the underlying commercial transactions, or be based on projected receipts and payments, con- sistent with the established business pattern. For- ward cover is also permitted for certain financial exposure where contracts will result in accelerating inflows of foreign currency and in financial out- flows, which can be swapped, through the swap mechanism, against inflows of equal amounts. The minimum and maximum maturity periods for which forward exchange transactions are permitted are 21 days and 12 months, respectively, except for forward purchases of foreign exchange by banks, where up to two years is permitted. The Central Bank intervenes in the forward market intermit- tently. These interventions are primarily intended to influence banks' liquidity positions and not the forward exchange rate. Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank, and was further liberalized, effective April 1, 1990. The liberalization measures were aimed at reducing administrative requirements associated with exchange controls in order to expedite transac- tions and lower associated business costs and at permitting greater access to some of the newer fi- nancial investments. Much of the authority for ap- proving normal payments is delegated to commer- cial banks authorized for this purpose (authorized dealers). Import licenses, where necessary, are is- sued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture and Food if they are agricultural in character; import licenses are also issued by the Department of Tourism and Trans- port, and in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import licens- ing is not used for exchange control purposes. Im- port and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Ireland notified the Fund, on August 31,1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency The administration of Irish exchange control is based on the distinction between entities that are permanently resident in Ireland and nonresi- dents —that is, residents of other countries. The latter comprise two categories: (1) residents of Eu- ropean Community (EC) member countries, and 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 IRELAND (2) residents of all other countries. Payments may be made in Irish pounds or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of nonresidents are des- ignated External Accounts. All credits in excess of £Ir250,000 to External Accounts held by nonbanks with financial institutions must be notified to the Central Bank, except where the credit is in respect of imports of goods or services into Ireland. There are also limits on maximum balances in External Accounts of nonresident banks; balances in excess of £Ir250,000 must be notified to the Central Bank. External Accounts may be credited with pay- ments that are eligible for transfer abroad under a general or specific exchange control approval, trans- fers from other External Accounts, payments for any foreign currencies purchased from account holders, the proceeds of Irish currency notes re- ceived from abroad in denominations not exceeding £Ir20, payments from within the country up to £Ir250 in value, and interest payable on the ac- counts; they may be debited for transfers to resi- dents, transfers to other external accounts, the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the transfer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. Authorized banks may operate Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of nonresidents in any for- eign currency; these accounts are generally subject to the same requirements as External Accounts. Authorized banks may also operate Foreign Cur- rency Accounts in the names of residents under specific central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originating in cer- tain non-EC countries are subject to either quantita- tive restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EC countries of products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC may be subject to various charges, such as levies and compensatory monetary amounts under that policy, and to duties under the common customs tariff. For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and fire- arms and ammunition) are prohibited without spe- cial licenses. Prior permission from the Central Bank is re- quired for purchases of goods abroad or for sales abroad, if payment is not being made in an ap- proved manner. Goods not for use in Ireland must, in general, be paid for with borrowed foreign cur- rency.1 For permitted imports, permission to make payments to nonresidents is granted automatically. Authority to make payments is delegated to autho- rized dealers. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require verification. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invis- ibles, it is given by the Central Bank. Authorized dealers are delegated authority to sell foreign exchange in excess of the basic allowance for all types of travel, equivalent to £Ir 1,200, with docu- mentary evidence that the foreign exchange is for genuine travel purposes. Not more than £Ir 1,200 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take with them up to £Irl50 in Irish currency notes. Nonresidents may take with them any foreign cur- rency notes that they brought into Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a lim- ited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods within six months of ship- ment if their value exceeds £Ir250. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be re- patriated without delay, and if foreign currencies are received, they must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person af ter his return from a trip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months from the date of issue. There are no limita- tions on the import of Irish or foreign bank notes, but prior Central Bank approval must be obtained to credit Irish bank notes in denominations exceeding £Ir20 to external accounts. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to nonresidents. Authority to 1This requirement was suspended on January 1, 1990. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 251 make certain payments has been delegated to au- thorized dealers; other payments require central bank approval. There are no restrictions on asset transfers for Irish residents taking up permanent residence abroad. The inflow of capital is not restricted, but inward direct investment of over £Irl million requires ex- change control verification. The purchase of nonur- ban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capi- tal received in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. The Central Bank approves applications by Irish residents for permission to purchase property for personal use in a member country of the EC with foreign currency purchased from Irish pounds. The acquisition of personal property located outside the EC is permitted, subject to a limit of £Ir50,000 a property and one property for each family unit. Up to 25 percent of the cost may be met by purchasing foreign exchange with Irish pounds, and the re- mainder must be loans in foreign currency. Borrow- ings may be repaid with foreign exchange in equal annual installments, over a period of not less than five years. When they are not intended to be in- vested in another property or to repay borrowing, the entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale of property outside Ireland, purchased for personal use of a resident, must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. The forward currency transactions of commercial banks are subject to limits, which vary from bank to bank, depending on the institution's level of par- ticipation in the foreign exchange market. All restrictions on purchases by Irish residents of foreign securities with maturities exceeding two years were eliminated as of January 1, 1989. Resi- dents are, however, required to repatriate the pro- ceeds from any subsequent sale of these securities, with the exception that sale proceeds may be held in foreign currency for six months if the intention is to reinvest in other approved foreign securities. Transactions in foreign currency securities with maturities of less than two years are monitored to limit the amount of capital transferred outside Ire- land. All transactions in foreign currency securities must be channeled through an approved agent (an Irish bank, stockbroker, or solicitor). Where such securities are sold, the proceeds must either be rein- vested in foreign securities or be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within three months. During the three-month period, in the absence of specific approval from the Central Bank, the proceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. In 1990, domestic institutional investors (e.g., autho- rized insurers, pension funds, and registered unit trusts) were allowed to purchase at the current rate of exchange for short-term foreign securities (i.e., with maturities of less than two years at issue), up to a limit of 12.5 percent of their previous year's net Irish pound cash flow. Effective January 1, 1989, all exchange controls applied to the sales of existing holdings of securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), and the European Atomic Energy Community (Eu- RATOM) were abolished. Direct investment abroad requires prior approval. Up to 25 percent of the cost of approved outward investments in non-EC countries may be financed by conversion from Irish pounds, and the balance through foreign borrowing. Use of Irish pounds is allowed, however, for all approved new direct in- vestments by Irish residents in EC member countries. Purchases by nonresidents of Irish registered se- curities must be funded with foreign currency or Irish pounds from an external account or the sale proceeds of other Irish securities. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are normally permitted up to £Ir20,000 a donor a calen- dar year, and financial institutions are allowed to transfer up to this amount without prior reference to the Central Bank. Applications by Irish residents to make cash gifts to EC residents, in excess of the normal allowance, are approved. Foreign currency may be borrowed by residents for any purpose. The approval of the Central Bank must be obtained when the borrowing in excess of £Irl million is not for the financing of trade. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents is not normally permitted, except to the extent that the nonresi- dents are parties to commercial transactions with residents or are investing directly in Ireland. Over- draft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and consular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a channel for portfolio investment, a subsidiary or branch of a company controlled directly by nonresident inter- ests may obtain from Irish banks all the financing it requires for its operation in Ireland. Nonresident banks are not permitted to hold bal- ances in excess of £Ir250,000 with resident financial institutions. For nonresidents who are not banks, the balance that may be maintained is not subject to a limit, but individual credits in excess of £Ir250,000 require prior approval from the Central Bank. Irish financial institutions are, however, permitted to ac- cept deposits in Irish pounds without limit, from both bank and nonbank nonresidents, without ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 IRELAND prior reference to the Central Bank, if the deposits carry fixed terms with maturities of at least three months. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. In accordance with a regulation of the EC Council dated October 27, 1986, Ireland does not permit the free circulation of gold coins minted after 1960 that origi- nated in the Republic of South Africa. Although there are no other import restrictions, residents require spe- cific exchange control permission to purchase gold coins or bullion outside Ireland. Specific exchange control permission is also required for the exportation of gold coins and bullion outside Ireland. Specific permission to buy or export gold coins or bullion is normally given only for bona fide numismatic or in- dustrial purposes. Residents of Ireland are not per- mitted to hold gold abroad. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement April 1. Forward cover was permitted for certain financial exposures. Forward contracts were no longer required to correspond in all aspects to the underlying commercial transaction, but could be based on projected receipts and payments that were consistent with a customer's established business pattern. (On January 1,1991, the following changes took place: (1) authorized dealers were allowed to open Foreign Currency Accounts on behalf of com- mercial customers, when there was a genuine com- mercial need for such accounts; (2) authorized dealers could arrange to participate in Irish pound/ foreign currency swaps between counterparties with equal and opposite currency exposure. The swaps could involve an actual or notional exchange and must be for a minimum of three months; (3) Irish pound/foreign currency options could be traded by authorized dealers on the same basis as forward contracts, subject to prudential limits and appropriate arrangements in operation; (4) Irish pound interest rate swaps and fu ture rate agree- ments were allowed to be entered into by autho- rized dealers with nonresidents for bona fide hedg- ing purposes; and (5) authorized dealers could make foreign currency loans available to Irish resi- dents, up to the equivalent of £Irl million, for mini- mum periods of three months. These loans must be at market-related interest rates and have fixed draw- down and repayment schedules.) Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) Payments for Invisibles April 1. Authorized dealers were delegated au- thority to sell foreign exchange in excess of the basic allowance for all travel equivalent to £Ir 1,200, with documentary evidence that foreign exchange was for genuine travel purposes. Capital April 1. (1) The period for which sale proceeds from foreign medium- and long-term securities might be held in foreign currency was extended to six months from three months; (2) the limit on re- mittances representing personal loans or gifts to residents of non-EC countries was raised to £Ir20,000; and (3) Irish financial institutions were permitted to accept deposits in Irish pounds, with- out limit, from both bank and nonbank nonresi- dents without prior reference to the Central Bank, if these deposits carry fixed terms of at least three months. (On April 1, 1991, the following changes were also introduced: (1) authorized dealers were permitted to make Irish pound loans available to nonresident-controlled entities, or directly to non- residents, to finance expenditure on direct invest- ments, including purchases of residential or com- mercial property. In addition, direct investment, where the total finance costs are less than £Irl mil- lion, no longer required prior permission; (2) the requirement to repatriate accumulated profits from permitted direct investment outside Ireland was removed where such profits were to finance new or to expand existing direct investment abroad; and (3) institutional investors and professional portfolio managers were permitted to deal in futures and options on foreign securities for bona fide hedging purposes.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the New Sheqel (plural, Sheqalim), the external value of which is linked to a basket consisting of the following five major curren- cies: the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Jap- anese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Before 1989, the authorities did not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions; with effect from January 3, 1989, actual daily rates have been established by the Bank of Israel within margins of 3 percent around the rate fixed in relation to the basket. These margins were increased to 5 percent on March 1, 1990. On December 31,1990, the noon midpoint exchange rate of the new sheqel in terms of the U.S. dollar was MS 2.048 - US$1. Autho- rized banks are permitted to deal in foreign ex- change. A tax of 7.5 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for purposes of payment for ser- vices (see section on Payments for Invisibles, be- low). An exchange rate insurance scheme covering export receipts is in operation (see section on Ex- ports and Export Proceeds, below). Forward exchange transactions between foreign currencies are permitted. Purchases and sales of currency options issued by the authorized dealers are permitted, provided that they are intended to cover exchange rate risk arising from authorized trade and capital transactions and are conducted through the authorized dealers. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange, and is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other govern- ment agencies, and is carried out through autho- rized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency ac- count. He may also convert funds held on the ac- count into local currency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a nonresident of a local currency account; such funds may be used locally in permitted transactions, in- cluding transfers between nonresidents. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred abroad in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency or State of Israel Develop- ment Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency There are six main types of foreign currency ac- counts that Israeli residents may hold: (1) Deposit accounts of certain residents (mostly immigrants) that are treated as nonresident ac- counts. Certain regulations stipulate the types of funds that may be deposited in these accounts. (2) Foreign currency deposit accounts (PAMAH). These accounts may be held by Israeli resident busi- ness enterprises, insurance companies, and non- profit organizations. Funds permitted to be depos- ited in these accounts are mostly proceeds from exports of goods and services and from sales of assets to nonresidents received during the recip- ients' normal course of business. The liquidity re- quirements are 8 percent for a current account and 4 percent for a time deposit account. (3) Resident deposit account (PATAM). These ac- counts are either a current or a one-year time de- posit account. Certain types of funds received di- rectly from abroad may be deposited in these accounts. The liquidity requirement is 100 percent. As of July 1, 1990, the previous PATAM accounts were consolidated with these accounts. (4) Resident transitory deposit accounts. Foreign currency that has been received legally by Israeli residents may be kept in these accounts for up to 14 days. Within this period, funds may be used for authorized purposes or converted into domestic currency. (5) Resident temporary deposit accounts. Foreign currency may be purchased and kept in these ac- counts for up to 30 days in advance of expected payments for authorized transactions. (Alter- natively the foreign currency may be purchased forward from an authorized bank.) 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 ISRAEL (6) Resident restitution deposit accounts. These accounts may be held only by a recipient of restitu- tion payments or certain disability pensions. These accounts may be in the form of a demand or a time deposit account in convertible currencies kept at an authorized bank. The liquidity requirement is 90 percent. Funds deposited in these accounts are tax free and can be used up to a limit of US$1,800 as additional travel exchange allocation. In addition, a resident may open a deposit ac- count linked to a foreign currency (PATZAM) with a maturity period of not less than six months. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources. Imports of iron and steel products from South Af- rica are prohibited (imports effected under con- tracts entered into before September 17, 1987 are, however, permitted). With some exceptions, im- ports are free of licensing and administrative or quantitative restrictions. Some imports on a Re- stricted List are subject to approval; this list includes most agricultural products, beverages, certain tex- tiles, explosives and inflammables, and specified items of machinery and metal products. The impor- tation of soybeans and wheat, which was once un- der government procurement, has been liberalized, and any food processing plant can import them directly. At present, only the importation of meat remains subject to government procurement. For- eign exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted automatically by the banks upon presenta- tion of relevant documents (import documents, bills of lading, and letters of credit). Advance payments for imports are permitted up to 35 percent or US$50,000, whichever is higher. Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repayment of sup- pliers' credits. A value-added tax of 16 percent is levied on almost all imported and domestically pro- duced goods, other than fresh fruits and vegeta- bles. A 2 percent duty is levied on imports from any origin. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments abroad on ac- count of invisibles is provided automatically up to prescribed limits upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$3,000 a person for each journey, regardless of age. The business travel al- lowance is US$200 a day, up to a maximum of US$5,000 a trip (in addition to the standard al- lowance of US$3,000). The allowance can be taken out in the form of cash, traveler's checks, credit cards, or other foreign exchange instruments. For- eign exchange use by means of credit cards is in- cluded in the travel allowance. Resident travelers may take out Israeli bank notes not exceeding the equivalent of US$200 a person a trip. Israeli resi- dents over 2 years of age traveling abroad are subject to a travel tax of NIS 250 on departure. (One half of the standard rate remains in effect for travel to Ro- mania, and travel to Egypt remains exempt from tax.) Payments for hotel accommodation, land transport, and other related services under foreign package tours, along with other imports of services, are subject to the value-added tax of 16 percent. Residents may make family support or gift remit- tances abroad up to US$2,000 a year. The maximum exchange allowance for students studying at institu- tions of higher education abroad is US$1,000 a month. Residents are permitted to make credit card payments abroad, up to US$500 a year. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to take out Israeli bank notes up to the equivalent of US$100, and to repurchase through an authorized dealer, at the port of departure, foreign currency up to the equivalent of US$500. The right of a tourist to buy foreign currency, on presentation of documents showing previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, is limited during a visit to US$5,000 for a person over 18 years of age and to US$2,000 for a person under 18 years. Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israeli currency. A resident going abroad for medical treatment that requires hospitalization is permitted to pay up to the equivalent of US$30,000 as repayment. While abroad, he is permitted to pay the remainder of the fee against bills. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are not restricted. Remittances of profits/ dividends from foreign direct investment are per- mitted after payments of local income tax. Foreign exchange sales for purposes of payments for services are subject to a tax of 7.5 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for sanitary control. Exports of oil and defense equip- ment (and signing of defense contracts) to South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be re- ceived within 12 months of the date of export in foreign currencies, and must be surrendered or held in a PATAM or a PAMAH account. However, exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad an amount equivalent to 10 percent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 255 an exporter, there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Com- pany (FTIC) provides an export insurance facility to cover unfavorable movements in domestic currency costs as measured by movements in the weighted average rate of the new sheqel against the basket of five currencies to which the external value of the new sheqel is linked (see section on Exchange Ar- rangement, above). The scheme covers exporters' value added. In return for a premium based on the value added of his exports, an exporter receives cover against any real appreciation of the new she- qel in relation to the basket of currencies. The pre- mium rate is established on the basis of average expected inflation in the partner countries and the relationships among the forward exchange rates of the currencies constituting the basket. Exporters would receive payments from the FTIC if the real depreciation were less than expected, whereas they would make payments to the FTIC if it were greater. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles exceeding US$3,000 must, in general, be surrendered to an authorized dealer, or kept in foreign exchange in PATAM or PAMAH accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and com- modities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 30 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to authorized dealers, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with autho- rized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There are no limits on the amounts of Israeli bank notes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Subject to approval, foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of loan and equity capital may be granted preferen- tial treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment, which grants a limited withholding tax of 25 percent on income resulting from these investments. Ap- provals granted under the law are classified as "ap- proved enterprises," "approved investments," or "approved loans." Approved enterprise status is granted to economically viable enterprises (1) in the fields of industry, tourism, and agriculture (a sepa- rate law applies to agriculture); (2) established in priority areas; or (3) contributing to improvements in the balance of payments. Approved investment or approved loan status may be granted to any en- terprise in the above-mentioned sectors; however, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period of the loan must not be less than seven years, and the rate of interest must not be more than 8 percent a year. Direct foreign borrowing by nonbank resi- dents with an average maturity of less than six months, other than suppliers' credits and loans ob- tained by residents engaged in export activities, is not permitted. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liqui- dation of foreign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in foreign currency. Residents who own mutual trust funds are permitted to invest abroad up to 10 percent of their portfolio of financial assets (up to 50 percent in the case of funds spe- cializing in foreign currency investments). Resi- dents are not normally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or the income from these assets. Residents may not buy foreign se- curities abroad. Resident exporters and airline and shipping companies may maintain foreign bank ac- counts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 30 years. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immigrants re- quire a special permit from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Emigrants are permitted to transfer their Israeli assets abroad up to the equivalent of US$4,000 a year. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase real es- tate and shares in Israel. They are also permitted to buy debentures of nonbanking firms that are traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. In order to repatri- ate the principal or profits on these investments, nonresidents must prove to an authorized dealer that they were purchased with foreign currency through an authorized dealer. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are sub- ject to licensing. Domestic banks are permitted to lend to nonresidents without restriction. Investments abroad by Israeli residents are sub- ject to a tax of 4 percent. Gold Gold bullion for industry may be imported by an importer holding an import license. Gold bullion and coins for investment, or certificates conferring a right to gold bullion, must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer; beginning Jan- uary 16, 1984, residents have not been permitted to buy gold bullion or coins for investment purposes. The following bullion coins are at present in- cluded in the list of gold coins for investment: ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 ISRAEL (1) Krugerrand of South Africa; (2) 50 dollar Maple Leafs of Canada; (3) 50 pesos of Mexico; (4) 100 corona and 4 dukat coins of Austria; (5) Sovereigns of Great Britain; (6) 10 dollar and 20 dollar Liberty coins of the United States; and (7) 20 franc napoleon coins of France. Other gold coins and medallions may be bought, sold, or held by an Israeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same manner as other goods. Imports of gold included in the above categories are subject to a value-added tax of 16 percent. Changes During 1990 Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency April 26. The purchase of foreign currency up to 30 days in advance of authorized transactions was permitted. The purchase may be effected either through a forward contract or through the establish- ment of a resident temporary deposit. August 15. The structure of resident deposit ac- counts (PATAM) was modified, and the various PA- TAM accounts were consolidated into two types: (1) a current or one-year time deposit account in which funds received directly from abroad may be deposited; and (2) a transitory account for a period of up to 14 days in which other funds may be deposited. November 15. A new foreign currency deposit cat- egory (PAMAH), designed to include the nonresi- dent accounts of Israeli residents (other than those with exemptions), was introduced. A PAMAH ac- count may be held by an Israeli resident business enterprise, insurer, or nonprofit organization. Funds permitted to be deposited in PAMAHS are mostly proceeds from exports of goods and services and from the sale of assets to nonresidents received within the normal course of business of the recipient. Payments for Invisibles June 15. Exchange allowances for the following purposes were increased: (1) for tourist travel, to US$3,000 a person a trip from the equivalent of US$2,000; (2) for family maintenance or gift remit- tance, to US$2,000 a year from the equivalent of US$1,000; and (3) for education abroad, to US$1,000 a month from the equivalent of US$500. The amounts of Israeli bank notes an Israeli resident and a nonresident traveler are allowed to take out were increased to US$200 from the equivalent of US$50, and to US$200 from US$100, respectively. Exports and Export Proceeds September 12. The rate of net compensation granted to exporters under the exchange rate insur- ance scheme provided by the FTIC was reduced by 2 percentage points. Proceeds from Invisibles June 15. The amount of foreign exchange an Israeli resident is permitted to hold was increased to US$3,000 from the equivalent of US$2,000. Capital May 22. The maximum limit on the interest rate on direct credits from abroad was removed. June 15. The limit on assets an emigrant is permit- ted to transfer abroad annually was raised to US$4,000 from the equivalent of US$2,000. September 27. The limit on the minimum period of a direct loan from abroad was reduced to 6 months from 12 months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira. Italy par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ger- many, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Italy maintains spot exchange rates between the Italian lira and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent above or below (in the case of the pound sterling and the Spanish peseta, plus or minus 6 percent) the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). On December 31, 1990, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Netherlands guilders 1 pound sterling 100 Spanish pesetas Italian Lire Upper Limit Lower Limit 3,710.20 20,062.0 76,540.0 22,817.0 2,050.03 67,912.0 2,343.62 1,222.30 3,546.90 19,179.0 73,257.0 21,813.0 1,959.84 64,928.0 2,078.79 1,084.10 The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the curren- cies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. The partici- pants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. How- ever, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Rates for 20 foreign currencies1 are quoted daily. On December 31, 1990, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 1,130.145 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any cur- rency. A reserve requirement equal to 25 percent of the increase in net foreign currency deposits is ap- plied to authorized banks' foreign currency de- posits. Residents may carry out spot and forward foreign exchange operations and transact currency options either with authorized banks or with for- eign counterparts. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Residents are allowed to conduct foreign ex- change transactions freely, with settlements to be effected either through authorized intermediaries (the Bank of Italy, authorized banks, the Postal Ad- ministration) or directly, i.e., by drawing on external accounts, through material delivery of means of payments in Italy or abroad, or by offsetting debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or non- residents. Operators and authorized intermediaries must, for statistical purposes, transmit data to the Italian Foreign Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi- UIC) on their foreign transactions exceeding the equivalent of Lit 20 million. This is done by filling out a Comunicazione valutaria statistica (Foreign Ex- change Statistical Return). The Government may impose restrictions on foreign transactions on a tem- porary basis to contain short-term pressures on the balance of payments or instability in the foreign exchange market. However, the expiration dates for all such measures would be specified at the time of the announcement of the measure, and cannot ex- ceed six months. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Italy notified the Fund, on August 13, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. 1 Currencies quoted are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 ITALY Nonresident Accounts Proceeds from Invisibles Nonresidents are allowed to maintain accounts with authorized banks in lire and in foreign ex- change, that may be freely debited and credited upon the holder's request. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by two Decrees of July 14, 1990 (No. 313) and of October 30,1990 (No. 68), both of which entered into effect on November 20, 1990. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped into three major areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A/1 (European Community (EC) countries), A/2 (overseas countries and territories, member coun- tries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other countries associated with the EC), and A/3 (third countries); Zone B, which com- prises most of the Eastern European countries, the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea; and Zone C (Japan). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be freely imported without quan- titative restrictions and goods that require a special license. Import liberalization is virtually complete for subzones A/1 and A/2, and very few quantitative restrictions remain for subzone A/3 and for some countries of Zone B. Tighter restrictions remain for a few countries of Zones B and C. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Com- mon EC regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EC countries. Payments for imports are not regulated. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Ex- ports of domestic and foreign bank notes by resi- dents across the border are free of restrictions up to Lit 20 million or its equivalent. Exports exceeding this amount must be made through authorized in- termediaries for recording and fiscal monitoring purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are governed by two Decrees of July 14, 1990 (No. 313) and of October 30,1990 (No. 68), both of which entered into effect on November 20, 1990. Exports to any country of products listed in Decree No. 68 require export licenses; other exports do not require authorization. There are no limitations on receipts from current invisibles. Imports of domestic and foreign bank notes by residents across the border are free of restrictions up to Lit 20 million or its equivalent; imports exceeding this amount must be made through authorized intermediaries for recording and fiscal monitoring purposes. Capital Residents are free to undertake financial transac- tions, including direct investments and purchases and sales of any foreign securities, real estate in- vestments, and loans. Residents may also freely hold foreign exchange and lire in any form in Italy and abroad. Residents cannot enter or leave the country with bearer securities worth more than Lit 20 million. They are allowed to import or export across the border nonbearer securities worth more than Lit 20 million, provided that a declaration is deposited with the customs. Nonresidents must de- clare to the customs cash and bearer securities worth more than Lit 20 million they bring in, if they intend to re-export them. The above limits do not apply to transfers effected by banks when they act as senders or beneficiaries. However, banks are also obliged to declare transfers by filling out a special form with the customs. Foreign investments in Italy of any kind, includ- ing both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are not restricted, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Gold The purchase and sale of gold abroad are legally reserved for the monetary authorities. Residents may purchase and import unrefined gold under ministerial license for industrial purposes. Loans for the importation of gold are freely assumable. The exportation of unrefined gold is subject to licensing by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The importation and exportation of gold coins, including coins that are legal tender in a foreign country, are free. Im- ports of unrefined gold are not subject to the value- added tax, whereas imports of gold coins are subject to a value-added tax at 19 percent. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement January 8. The fluctuation margins of the lira in the exchange rate mechanism of the EMS were re- duced from plus or minus 6 percent to plus or minus 2.25 percent. A new central rate was fixed for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 259 lira so as to leave its lower intervention limit unchanged. Administration of Control April 27. A decree completing the liberalization of capital transfers and the implementation of EC Di- rective 88/361 was issued. The decree permitted residents to freely hold foreign exchange and lire in any form in Italy and abroad, and residents were authorized to carry out spot, forward, and option transactions in foreign exchange with foreign coun- terparts. Payments to and from abroad may be made either through authorized intermediaries or directly by means of offsetting debts and credits vis- a-vis other residents or nonresidents, entries to ac- counts held abroad, or physical delivery of means of payment. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) Exports and Export Proceeds January 11. A decree allowing residents to retain their receipts of foreign exchange from the sale of goods and services in Foreign Exchange Accounts without any time limit was issued; previously, such balances had to be used for permitted transactions or sold to authorized banks within 120 days. Capital January 19. A decree allowing residents to pur- chase bonds and money market instruments issued or payable abroad with remaining maturity terms of less than 180 days was issued. Upon maturity, the reimbursed funds can be deposited in Foreign Ex- change Accounts without obligation to convert them into lire. April 27, June 23, and August 4. Provisions for the monitoring of certain specified transfers of money and securities for fiscal purposes were introduced by two decrees; the second decree became a law. May 4. A decree with new instructions for the Bank of Italy was issued. It aimed at broadening the range of intermediaries authorized to conduct for- eign exchange operations and provided directives for the Italian Foreign Exchange Office concerning the collection of statistical data from private agents. After May 4, the Italian Foreign Exchange Office, which previously collected data only from autho- rized intermediaries, was authorized to request agents to submit directly data on operations that have not been transacted through authorized inter- mediaries for operations exceeding Lit 20 million. May 14. The remaining restrictions on authorized banks' foreign exchange management were abol- ished, whereby authorized banks were no longer required to balance their foreign exchange position and their net external position and "spot against forward" operations in foreign exchange were no longer subject to ceilings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar. Exchange rates are determined under an Interbank Foreign Exchange Trading System (interbank for- eign exchange market), which was introduced on September 17, 1990. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were J$7.9585 - US$1 and J$8.1167 = US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The interbank foreign exchange market is oper- ated by the commercial banks and the Bank of Ja- maica. The commercial banks buy and sell for their own account. The Bureaux de change function as points of collection, and they are required to sell all the foreign exchange they purchase to the commer- cial banks. Receipts from the following sources are surrendered directly to the Bank of Jamaica: (1) proceeds from exports of bauxite, alumina, sugar, and bananas; (2) receipts from tourism that are deposited in the Jamaica National Retained Ac- count (JNRA); and (3) proceeds from official loans and disinvestments of government assets. All other foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the commercial banks at rates quoted by the commer- cial banks. The principal foreign currencies ac- cepted as transaction currencies in the interbank exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Trade in other currencies is optional and negotiable between par- ticipating banks. The Bank of Jamaica is responsible for payments of obligations on government imports of goods and services and official debt. Since the amounts sur- rendered to the Bank of Jamaica directly from the sources indicated above are insufficient to meet the payments to be effected by it, the commercial banks are required to surrender 30 percent of their foreign exchange purchases to the Bank of Jamaica. Foreign exchange is surrendered by commercial banks to the Bank of Jamaica at the previous day's average weighted buying rate plus a spread of J$0.03. Addi- tional needs of the Bank of Jamaica are met by incre- mental purchases from commercial banks at their daily average selling rates. Incremental purchases are allocated across banks on a pro rata basis. On December 31,1990, the surrender requirement plus the incremental purchases of Bank of Jamaica equaled 50 percent of the foreign exchange pur- chases of commercial banks. All private sector payments are transacted through the commercial banking system. The com- mercial banks make payments for imports against the same documentation previously required from importers. The commercial banks also handle most service payments. On November 1, 1990, the Bank of Jamaica, in consultation with the other central banks in the CARICOM, suspended clearing arrangements within the framework of the CARICOM, and the Bank of Jamaica no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector commercial transactions. Settlements for such transactions are effected by the commercial banking sector in convertible currencies. The forward market for foreign exchange is oper- ated by the commercial banks at rates negotiated with their customers and is subject to certain reg- ulations issued by the Bank of Jamaica. All contracts must have a minimum maturity period of seven days. All proceeds, except those that must be sur- rendered directly to the Bank of Jamaica, may be sold on the forward exchange market. Natural and juridical persons eligible to purchase spot foreign exchange at the Bank of Jamaica are also entitled to purchase foreign exchange forward. The Bank of Jamaica maintains a combined long position on spot and forward contracts equivalent to 20 percent of the average daily purchases for each bank over a specified period. Amounts in excess of the pre- scribed long position are offered for sale to another commercial bank or to the Bank of Jamaica by noon of the following day. There is also a limit on the short position on forward contracts equivalent to 10 per- cent of the average daily forward purchases for each bank over a specified period. The Bank of Jamaica reserves the right to participate in the forward mar- ket. The Bank of Jamaica provides exchange rate guarantees to certain importers who use extended credit facilities. Under its guidelines, the spread between the spot and forward rates is set on the basis of interest rate differentials and risk factors related to the maturity period of the contract. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 261 of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and act as agents of the Bank of Jamaica in respect of trade and most service transactions. Since April 16, 1985, import licenses have been required only for basic foodstuffs, motor vehicles, certain chemicals, fertilizers, pharmaceutical prod- ucts, wood products, and items potentially harmful to public health or security. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Jamaica notified the Fund on October 18,1990 that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by credit- ing Jamaica dollars to an External Account or a Foreign Currency Account.1 Receipts from all coun- tries must be received by debit of an External Ac- count or in any foreign currency. External and Blocked Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresi- dents, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts without the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica that have been approved by the Exchange Control Authority, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the pro- ceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts that are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land and proceeds from the sale of emigrants' real estate and financial assets) are des- ignated Blocked Accounts. Nonresidents may use 1All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. blocked funds without limitation for local expendi- ture while they are in Jamaica, and for investment in Jamaica dollar securities, local mortgages, or other investments approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Ap- plications for the release of funds in Blocked Ac- counts in excess of J$5,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner, must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Retained Accounts. All payments from abroad to Jamaican hoteliers must be paid into a special ac- count of the Bank of Jamaica, the Jamaican National Retained Account, from which the hotels can obtain foreign exchange to satisfy their import require- ments and service payments up to a limit of 20 per- cent of their lodgments. Effective November 1,1990, any company in the same group as the hotel or tourism activity that earns foreign exchange has been eligible to maintain a JNRA. Effective January 1, 1990, exporters of nontradi- tional goods (all exports excluding bauxite, alumina, sugar, and bananas) and services (including data entry) have been allowed to deposit 7.5 percent of their earnings in convertible currencies in a retained account in a commercial bank; the use of balances on these accounts is not restricted. Foreign Currency Accounts. There are two types of foreign currency accounts. "A" Accounts may be maintained by both residents and nonresidents. Foreign exchange that is not earned from exports of goods and services may be credited to these ac- counts, and balances on these accounts may be used without restriction. Deposits of foreign currency notes to an "A" Account are subject to a limit of US$10,000 over the life of the account, but noncash deposits may be made without limit. Under the "B" Account facility, which may also be maintained by both residents and nonresidents, foreign exchange may be converted into Jamaica dollars, and the bal- ances earn interest at the domestic market rate of interest. Balances on the accounts may be converted into foreign exchange at the prevailing exchange rate and withdrawn at any time. Interest earnings on "B" Accounts are exempt from the income tax. There is no cash limit on deposits to an individual "B" Account in the first two weeks of its establish- ment, and a cash limit of the equivalent of US$500 a month is permitted thereafter without any limit on the total noncash deposits. There is no limit on the overall balance on an individual "A" or "B" Ac- count, provided that the deposits to the account are not derived from the proceeds from exports of goods and services from Jamaica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 JAMAICA Imports and Import Payments Imports from, or originating in, South Africa are prohibited. Import licenses are required for basic foodstuffs, motor vehicles, certain chemicals, fertil- izers, pharmaceutical products, wood products, and items endangering public health or security. For some goods, licenses are not normally issued unless they originate in member countries of the CARICOM. Certain food items and all motor vehicles may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation (JCTC). Imports of petroleum products and cement are also restricted to certain public sector entities. Other- wise, goods may be imported freely without license. Payments for imports may be made by commer- cial banks without reference to the Bank of Jamaica. Exchange control approval is required for advance payments in excess of US$2,000, but is generally granted. Imports are subject to customs tariffs in com- pliance with the Common External Tariff (CET) ar- rangement of the CARICOM. Stamp duties are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports plus any customs tar- iffs (excluding imports from the CARICOM area). The general structure of taxes on foreign trade is as follows: (1) for capital goods, the total of customs tariffs and stamp duty is set at 20 percent, unless customs tariffs are above 20 percent under the CET, in which case the full duty rate applies; (2) raw materials are subject to a maximum combined customs tariff and stamp duty rate of 10 percent; (3) consumer goods are subject to a maximum com- bined customs tariff and stamp duty rate of 60 per- cent, unless the customs tariff rate is above 60 per- cent under the CET, in which case the full customs tariff rate applies. Only a few products are subject to a customs tariff rate of more than 60 percent. Two exceptions to this duty structure are: (1) cer- tain basic food products are imported by JCTC and sold at subsidized prices; and (2) protective stamp duties are levied on certain agricultural products (up to 95 percent) on a minimum invoice value. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange for most service transactions, includ- ing business and other travel, insurance, commis- sions, private interest payments, medical expenses, foreign exchange refund, cash gifts, pensions, and miscellaneous payments, such as registration and subscription fees. Some of these payments are sub- ject to limits. All other service payments require the prior approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Foreign ex- change is made available for remittances of income from emigrants' properties and for remittances for family maintenance, subject to a limit of US$2,000 a year for each category. Amounts exceeding these limits may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds. In addition, a limit of US$100 a year is applied to cash gift remittances. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident in- vestors are approved, net of taxes, without restric- tion, except for the repatriation of profits during the first three years under the debt-equity conversion program. A basic exchange allowance of US$300 a person a calendar year for foreign travel, other than for busi- ness or professional purposes, is made available to residents by authorized dealers.2 The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and professional purposes is normally subject to a maximum al- lowance of US$200 a day for a period not exceeding five days in any one calendar month. Amounts beyond this can be approved for bona fide requests. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 percent of their net salary during the period of their contract and their accumulated assets at the end of the con- tract period. Residents going abroad may take with them Ja- maica bank notes not exceeding J$20. Bona fide requests for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be exported to any country that is not on the prohibited list.3 However, specific li- censes are required for the exportation of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, fire- arms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within three months of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents returning to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica bank notes up to J$20 a traveler. Resident travelers are 2This limit was raised to US$600 on January 1, 1991. 3This list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, Poland, Romania, South Africa, and the U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require a specific license. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 263 required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return. Tourists are required to convert their foreign currencies to settle their hotel bills in Jamaican currency. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents require the approval of the ex- change control authorities and are not approved unless they are expected to result in tangible bene- fits for Jamaica. The purchase of local assets by residents from nonresidents also requires the ap- proval of the exchange control authorities, but this is normally granted. (Effective January 12, 1991, the Bank of Jamaica has been granting approval for the purchase or sale of real property by Jamaican resi- dents outside Jamaica.) With the exception of certain types of investment in residential and commercial real estate, direct in- vestments in Jamaica by nonresidents must be reg- istered with the Bank of Jamaica in order for the investor to obtain permission to make all current payments, including interest and dividends relat- ing to the investment, and to repatriate his original investment plus any capital gain. For portfolio in- vestments, approval by the Bank of Jamaica is re- quired and the remittance of earnings and proceeds from sales is assured. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to non-resident- controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be non-resident-controlled when the controlling inter- est is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval from the Bank of Jamaica. There is a fixed-term foreign currency deposit scheme for both residents and nonresidents. Pro- ceeds from exports of goods and services may not be credited to these accounts. Accounts under this scheme may be credited with any means of pay- ment, except cash or traveler's checks, but the trans- actions must be effected through a commercial bank; the deposits are freely repatriable upon maturity. In general, non-Jamaican nonresidents are not permitted to raise local mortgages. However, non- residents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 percent of the purchase price. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are allowed to remit from Jamaica the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica. In the case of property not fully developed, the balance of the sale price can be remitted annually in five equal install- ments, commencing one year after the realization of the gain, subject to a minimum remittance in any one year of the foreign currency equivalent of J$20,000, except when the owner had previously received an undertaking that the investment in land carried approved status. If the property is fully de- veloped, the balance can be remitted over two years, commencing one year after the realization of the gains. Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots may remit in full the proceeds of sale, provided the unit is not sold within two years of completion of the construction and the vendor has conformed to the Taxation and Exchange Con- trol Acts. If the unit is sold within two years of completion, the investor may remit the original in- vestment immediately, and the balance over two years, with a minimum remittance in any one year of the foreign currency equivalent of J$20,000. In July 1987, a debt-equity program was intro- duced for the conversion of certain commercial bank debts into equity investments in approved public and private sector entities. Under this program, profit repatriation is prohibited for three years, and capital repatriation is also prohibited for three years for investments in priority sectors, and for seven years for investments in other qualified sectors. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents, other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users, are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities and industrial users. All commercial im- ports of jewelry require import licenses. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement September 17. An interbank foreign exchange mar- ket (Interbank Foreign Exchange Trading System) was established, in which the exchange rate of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 JAMAICA Jamaica dollar is market determined. Commercial banks are authorized dealers, and they are allowed to negotiate the buying and selling rates for Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Receipts from the following sources are surrendered directly to the Bank of Jamaica: (1) proceeds from exports of bauxite, alumina, sugar, and bananas; (2) receipts from tourism that are deposited in the Jamaica Na- tional Retained Account; and (3) proceeds from offi- cial loans and investments. All other foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the commercial banks at rates quoted by the commercial banks. The commer- cial banks are required to surrender 30 percent of their foreign exchange purchases to the Bank of Jamaica at the previous day's average weighted buying rate plus a spread of J$0.03. November 1. Bilateral clearing arrangements within the framework of the CARICOM operated by the Bank of Jamaica and other CARICOM central banks were suspended, and payments and receipts in respect of trade in goods and services with CARICOM countries would be settled by the commercial banks. Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts January 1. Exporters of nontraditional goods (all exports excluding bauxite, alumina, sugar, and ba- nanas) and services (including data entry) were al- lowed to deposit 7.5 percent of their earnings in convertible currencies in a retained account in a commercial bank and were permitted to use bal- ances on these accounts without restriction. July 1. Residents and nonresidents were permit- ted to maintain "A" accounts. Foreign exchange that is not earned from exports of goods and ser- vices may be credited to these accounts, and bal- ances on these accounts may be used without re- striction. Deposits of foreign currency notes to an individual account would be subject to a limit of US$10,000 over the life of the account, but there would be no limit on the noncash deposit, provided that the deposits to the accounts are not derived from the proceeds from exports of goods and ser- vices from Jamaica. October 1. Residents and nonresidents were per- mitted to maintain "B" accounts. Domestic cur- rency that has been converted from foreign ex- change may be credited to these accounts, and balances on the accounts may be converted into foreign exchange at the prevailing exchange rate and withdrawn at any time. Balances earn interest at the domestic market rate of interest, and interest earnings are exempt from the income tax. There will be no limit on deposits to an individual account in the first two weeks of its establishment, and a cash limit of the equivalent of US$500 a month is permit- ted thereafter, without any limit on the total non- cash deposits. There is no limit on the overall bal- ance on an individual account, provided that the deposits to the accounts are not derived from the proceeds from exports of goods and services from Jamaica. November 1. Any company in the same group as the hotel or tourism activity that earns foreign ex- change was made eligible to maintain a JNRA. Imports and Import Payments September 1. An import duty drawback system was established. September 17. The authority to process and make payments for private sector imports was delegated to the commercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds January 2. In-bond shops were required to sell all goods to nonresidents only in foreign exchange. September 1. The rebate system, under which 7.5 percent of the f .o .b. value of manufactured ex- ports was paid, was replaced by an import duty drawback system. November 1. Amounts available under the foreign exchange retention scheme for exporters of non- traditional goods were allowed to be credited to a foreign currency account at a commercial bank, and were permitted to be used for business transactions with supporting documentation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 29,1990 was ¥ 134.40 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with their customers, with nonresident banks, and among themselves. Forward exchange contracts may be ne- gotiated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other major interna- tional foreign exchange markets. There are no of- ficially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interna- tional Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, how- ever, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import- and export- reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Inward and outward direct investments require prior notice to the Minister of Finance and other appropriate ministers. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Japan notified the Fund on August 21, 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts may also be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or payments f rom these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Pay- ment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to pre- vent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports can be freely made, with the exception of specifically restricted items. The Import Restriction System covers 68 items (4-digit Customs Coopera- tion Council Nomenclature (CCCN) base), 18 of which have been communicated to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) as residual restrictions, while the remaining items fall under the state-trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once the importer has obtained authorization from the MITI, he receives an import quota certificate that entitles him to receive an im- port license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the impor- tation of certain other goods from specified coun- tries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Payments for imports may be effected up to two years before the import declaration or after customs clearance. Longer settlement periods require an im- port license from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without limit. Gifts and donations (except by government institutions) to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) exceeding ¥ 5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment after verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to relatives abroad may be made without limit. Other current payments for invisibles, such as the pur- chase of foreign currencies in connection with travel abroad, may be made without limit. The exportation of domestic bank notes is limited to ¥ 5 million. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 JAPAN Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and the Export Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Ex- change and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export re- straint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, ex- port prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1990, voluntary export restraints were applied to exports of certain textile items and machine tools to the United States and the European Community (EC) with floor prices, to exports of passenger cars and selected steel products to the United States, and to exports of forklift trucks to the EC. In addition, exports of some other products, including pas- senger cars to the EC and Sweden and video re- corders to the EC, were subject to monitoring by the Government. At the end of 1990, there were 30 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items were sub- ject to a license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law, in order to control their export to specified socialist countries, because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., nickel), or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settlement is under the "special" method also re- quire individual licenses. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimportation require individual licenses; "special" settlement methods are those effected by means of open ac- count or those involving payment not earlier than two years after shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be ac- cepted without a license. Residents as well as non- residents may freely bring in any amount in Jap- anese or foreign currency. Capital Capital transactions are, in principle, free unless certain procedures are specifically required. Such specific procedures may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the Minister of Finance or Minister of International Trade and Industry con- cerned may request or order that the transaction be suspended or that its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice with- out a waiting period. Acquisition of securities for portfolio can be made freely through designated securities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institutional investors can freely acquire securities for portfolio investments. However, ac- quisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones and borrowings by residents require prior notice without a waiting period. Under emergency conditions, however, most capital transactions that are not subject to prior approval in normal conditions may be subject to prior approval. Emergency conditions are defined as situations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the maintenance of equilibrium in Japan's balance of payments difficult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to affect Japan's money or capital market adversely. A distinction is made between direct investments in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides ma- jority equity ownership of enterprises or establish- ment of branch operations, investments that come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisition by a foreign investor of the shares of a listed company (including individual companies for which the stock price in over-the-counter trans- actions is made public by the Securities Dealers Association) that reach 10 percent or more when added to those owned by related persons; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year matu- rity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business ob- jectives of a company with one-third or more for- eign ownership is also subject to the provisions for direct investment. Requests or orders for suspen- sion or modification of specific aspects of the trans- action may be made if the minister or ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for national security, public order, pub- lic safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or for the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment with other countries. Outward investments by residents in the form of loans, issue of bonds abroad by residents, issue of bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct invest- ment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to sus- pension or modification by the Minister of Finance if, in his opinion, the transaction might adversely affect (1) international financial markets or Japan's international credit standing, (2) domestic and fi- nancial capital markets, (3) business activities of a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 267 sector of Japanese industries or the smooth perfor- mance of the national economy, and (4) implemen- tation of Japan's international agreements, interna- tional peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The Minister of Finance may shorten the waiting period when the transaction under con- sideration is deemed unharmful. Other transactions by nonresidents may generally be carried out freely. Overseas deposits by residents and borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents other than those carried out by an authorized bank in Japan and issue of yen-denominated bonds abroad by nonresidents require prior approval. Other exter- nal transactions by residents may normally be car- ried out freely. Residents are permitted to issue currency conversion and floating rate Euro-yen bonds. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period, but in most cases they can be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long-term basis overseas to borrowers of their choice, and they can accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents; foreign cur- rency or yen deposits of nonresidents as well as residents are subject to minimum reserve require- ments adjusted from time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese banking regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency as well as from money markets in Japan. The following prudential guidelines are applied to capital transactions by financial institutions: (1) a limit on the holding by insurance companies of se- curities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 per- cent of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign currency-denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insur- ance Fund of bonds issued by nonresidents equiv- alent to 20 percent of the reserve funds; (4) a ceiling on foreign currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds equivalent to 30 percent of pen- sion trust assets (for the new money deposited from April 1, 1990, the ceiling was relaxed to 50 percent on the basis of each institutional account); (5) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign currency-denominated bonds excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of their net worth; and (6) a ceiling of 5 percent of assets for investment in foreign currency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may freely transfer any amount in any foreign currency. Overseas deposits by resident in- dividuals and corporations with a maturity of less than two years and exceeding ¥ 30 million and up to the equivalent of ¥ 100 million are subject to automatic prior approval from the Bank of Japan; overseas deposits up to the equivalent of ¥ 30 mil- lion are not restricted. Qualified Japanese enter- prises in insurance, transportation, and securities are permitted to maintain overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The importation and expor- tation of gold bullion are free from licensing. Exter- nal futures trading in gold can be freely made by designated companies. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments January 1. A package of import expansion mea- sures was announced. The package included tax incentives for promoting imports, expansion of loan programs with preferential interest rates for financ- ing imports, import facilities, and allocation of bud- getary funds for promotion of imports. March 22. A liberalization of imports of super- computers, satellites, and wood products was announced. April 1. Import quotas on several food products ( f ru it juice, except citrus f ru it juice; processed beef; ice cream; and f rozen yogurt) were elimi- na ted. The ta r i ff rates on some 1,000 items of manu fac tu red goods were suspended, and the ta r i ff rates on 4 items of manu fac tu red goods were reduced. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The export volume of passenger cars to the United States under voluntary export restraints for the period April 1, 1990-March 31, 1991 was set at 2.3 million units, the same as that which applied during the previous 12-month period. Capital July 30. The system of foreign deposit accounts was liberalized as follows: (1) in addition to individ- uals, corporations were allowed to open accounts abroad; (2) the ceiling on accounts permitted to be maintained abroad without restriction but requiring reporting to the Bank of Japan was raised to ¥ 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 JAPAN million from ¥ 5 million; (3) the ceiling on accounts permitted to be maintained abroad with automatic approval by the Bank of Japan was raised to ¥ 100 million from ¥ 30 million; and (4) trading of foreign securities with deposit balances on accounts held abroad was liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar. The exchange rate of the Jordan dinar is determined on the basis of its relationship to a basket of currencies constituting the SDR, with the weights determined by their relative importance to Jordan's interna- tional transactions. On December 31,1990, the offi- cial buying and selling rates quoted by the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were JD 1.50829 = US$1 and JD 1.49925 = US$1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in interna- tional financial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits approved by the Central Bank for sales of ex- change for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institu- tions. Authorized dealers are permitted to enter into forward contracts in major currencies against the Jordan dinar for specified commercial transac- tions, provided that they cover such operations abroad. Each authorized dealer's forward transac- tions are subject to quantitative limits. For corpora- tions or projects considered to be of vital national interest, the Central Bank may offer a forward ex- change facility in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the issu- ance of exchange permits for import payments and, within permitted annual limits, for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. Import pol- icy is determined by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Customs, Supply, and Agriculture. In addition, an Economic Security Committee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones con- cerning economic policy. 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Prescription of Currency Outward payments may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except exports of agri- cultural products) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan or from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in cash in foreign bank notes from abroad. Jordan has concluded bilateral trade agreements with Egypt, India, Romania, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Turkey, and a bilateral trade and credit agreement with Iraq. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency. The approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident ac- counts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, in- cluding Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest-bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in convertible currency and may be used for any purpose. The interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in inter- national markets. Foreign Currency Accounts Deposit accounts denominated in a foreign cur- rency may be opened at the Central Bank by govern- mental and semigovernmental entities, as well as by the specialized credit institutions, licensed finance companies, and domestic corporations of vital na- tional interest (including companies in which the Government owns more than 25 percent of the capi- tal), provided that outstanding balances (including interest earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1 million. This ceiling can be raised to JD 3 million in certain cases. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may main- tain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that the total balance of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 150,000. If an account has been credited with currency notes, it may be debited only with currency permits; permits are not required if the account has been credited with transfers 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 JORDAN through the banking system or with checks in for- eign currency. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to re- turn may continue to keep accounts in foreign cur- rencies without limit for a period of up to five years, after which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 150,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items2 from any source, and all imports from Israel and South Africa, are pro- hibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting coun- try (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and are subject to a fee of 5 percent of the c. & f. value payable on the issue of the import license. Imports that require an import license also re- quire an exchange permit, which is granted auto- matically when an import license has been ob- tained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on ex- change permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved in- stitutions and individual permits of less than JD 300. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior ap- proval by the Central Bank, which is normally given for essential imports only. In addition to import duties, a surcharge of 13 percent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Advance deposits are required against import let- ters of credit, as follows: (1) 20 percent for industrial machinery; (2) 20 percent for raw materials and for basic foodstuffs; (3) 30 percent for medicine, agricultural inputs, and government imports; (4) 70 percent for other goods; and (5) 60 percent for all imports into free zones. Imports to Free Zones With the discontinuation of central bank issuance of exchange permits for imports to free zones and for transit trade, it is the importer's responsibility to 2These include carbonic acid, some nonalcoholic beverages, cigarettes, secondhand passenger cars and buses that are more than five years old, and military uniforms. Certain of these com- modities may be imported, however, from Arab Common Market countries and from countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of certain agricultural commodities may be pro- hibited in good crop years. provide foreign currencies transactions. to finance such Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Remittances by postal order do not require ex- change control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted within certain limits: remittances to residents' de- pendents, reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad, expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad, educational expenses, expenses for medical treatment, and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.3 A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits for invisible payments except those of govern- ment departments and certain approved institu- tions, permits financed from nonresident accounts in foreign currency, and those with a value of less than JD 500. No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of for- eign nationals who intend to return to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18). These allowances are granted annually for one or more trips. For family support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted; however, remittances may be made by postal order for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own countries. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordanian notes and coins. Nonresidents working in Jordan can transfer 70 percent of their salaries if they maintain a nonresident Jordan dinar account; if they do not have such accounts, they can transfer up to JD 100 a month with the total amount not exceeding JD 1,200 a year. Furthermore, all trav- elers may take out checks, traveler's checks, or let- ters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins 3 All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but foreign ex- change is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded before May 1965. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 271 and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be repatriated within six months of shipment. Exporters are allowed to retain 10 percent of the proceeds in deposits at local com- mercial banks or financial institutions and to use them to make payments for imports of inputs. Ex- empt from this requirement are the proceeds from exports of fertilizers and agricultural and mining products to other countries. Exporters and resi- dents of Jordan are not permitted to maintain bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jorda- nian and foreign notes and coins.4 Any person re- garded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign cur- rency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and are not normally al- lowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applications by banks, insurance com- panies, industrial or trading firms, and contractors for permission to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be remitted, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in accordance with 4 Approval is not given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. the guidelines of the Central Bank. After two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted with the ap- proval of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Central Bank. The Investment Committee may ap- prove more liberal provisions, and exchange per- mits are granted accordingly. The Foreign Com- panies Registration Law No. 46 of 1975 provides various benefits to foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the purpose of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased with convertible currencies by nonresidents; matu- rity proceeds, premiums, and interest are transfer- able in any convertible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued ten gold coins. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or invest- ment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized in- dustrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form require an additional license from the Central Bank. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement February 17. The dual exchange rate system was unified at JD 0.6729 = US$1. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The prohibition on imports of commer- cial vehicles, television sets, cameras, video re- corders, nonmedical furniture, microwave ovens, tiles, glasses, marbles, sculptures and antiques, and artificial flowers and fruits was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies. The mid- dle rate of the Kenya shilling for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank is determined on the basis of the daily U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates are each set at 0.15 percent above and below the rate thus deter- mined. On December 31, 1990, buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 24.0479 and K Sh 24.1202, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies1 are determined on the basis of New York U.S. dollar closing rates for the currencies con- cerned. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Government. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and deutsche mark, for periods of up to three months for export receipts and up to six months for import payments, at pre- mia or discounts administratively set by the Central Bank. Forward cover is permitted for trade transac- tions only. The Central Bank deals with commercial banks up to six months forward for imports and up to three months forward for exports. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or exchange rate guarantee schemes for external debt servicing. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many pay- ments for current invisibles, and some capital payments. Import controls are administered by the Director of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. The responsibility for issuing import licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submit- ted by the importer in Kenya before orders are placed abroad. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for imports are forwarded by the 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and Zambian kwacha. Director to the Central Bank. The approval of ap- plications for imports is granted by the Import Man- agement Committee, and the Foreign Exchange Al- location Committee approves the allocation of foreign exchange for each application and deals with policy issues on imports. Both committees are composed of representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Planning and National Development, Commerce and Industry, and the Central Bank. The Director of External Trade in the Ministry of Com- merce deals with export promotion and issues spe- cial licenses for the exportation of restricted goods, such as maize and other food products. Exports of a large number of agricultural products require a spe- cial license. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries other than South Africa may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. Remittances to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other than South Africa with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control ap- proval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than South Afri- can currency) and gold by nonresidents to autho- rized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents are cred- ited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed pro- cedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South Africa) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of spec- ified bonds issued by the Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya.2 The 2Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 273 redemption proceeds of these securities are trans- ferable, and interest is freely transferable to non- residents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. For purposes of import-licensing requirements, prod- ucts are classified into three schedules. Import li- censes are valid for three or six months, depending on product categories. All private sector imports require a license to receive an allocation of foreign exchange, and licenses are issued jointly by the Director of Internal Trade and the Central Bank. Applications must be approved before firm orders can be placed. Schedule I consists of mainly high-priority capital goods, raw materials, and intermediate inputs. The approval of licenses for imports on this schedule is, in principle, virtually automatic. Licenses are ap- proved by the Director of Internal Trade, and for- eign exchange is allocated by the Central Bank. Items on Schedule II are of relatively high priority and require ministerial or government approval, in general relating to technical criteria, before a license can be issued. Licenses associated with Schedule II are, in principle, approved automatically once the technical criteria are met. Items on Schedule III are subdivided into three groups. Items on Schedule IIIA and IIIB, which include finished goods, are licensed virtually automatically (as in the case of Schedule I). In June 1990,35 percent of items on Schedule IIIC were shifted to Schedule IIIB. Schedule IIIC contains items that receive the lowest priority, those that are either domestically manufac- tured or for which domestic substitutes are avail- able. Some 95 percent of imports (in 1986/87 values) are now free of quantitative restrictions, and customs tariffs are applied as the sole form of pro- tection for these goods. In June 1990, the average tariff rate on all items previously on schedules other than IIIC was lowered by about 5 percentage points. Applications for foreign exchange allocation li- censes for imports have, since 1987, been subject to a charge of 1.5 percent of the cost and freight value of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are per- mitted to provide exchange against documents, but normally not before customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equipment, which are regarded as a contribution toward equity capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. All imports with an f.o.b. value of more than K Sh 50,000 are subject to preshipment inspection for quality, quantity, and price. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until they receive this Clean Report. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with com- panies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Autho- rized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administratively, and most current pay- ments are, in practice, unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a full scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evi- dence of debt. The Central Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) and have not been in the country for more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one third of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 10,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover mainte- nance, educational expenses, and so on, provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed one half of their monthly salaries. Expatri- ates who have stayed for over four years may con- tinue to remit from salaries as above, up to the end of the tenth year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to transfer additional savings upon emigration within that period. Remit- tances to South Africa, other than certain pensions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may re- mit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12- month period. Any excess of net rent over the per- mitted transfer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years' maturity, after which period the redemp- tion proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annually up to 10 percent of the book value of their properties as of September 25,1970, or an amount not exceed- ing 10 percent of issued capital. If they derive in- come from rent as well as from other sources, they ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 KENYA must submit an application to the exchange control authorities for approval to remit such incomes. Ex- change control approval is required for outward remittance of profits and dividends on nonresident equity holdings. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 10,000 a person (K Sh 5,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every three years. Holders of one-way tickets who have been granted emigration status or final departure rights are not entitled to the basic travel allowance, but to an allowance of K Sh 5,000 a person. The basic allowance is not available for travel to South Africa. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for business travel to Tanzania and Uganda of up to K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period of 10 days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 2,500 a day for a maximum period of 20 days. A ha jj pilgrimage al- lowance of K Sh 25,000 for adults is available once only to persons who have not used the basic travel allowance since August 23, 1989. Nonresident trav- elers may freely take out any unused balance of foreign currency notes they brought in. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 200 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the exportation of Kenyan bank notes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenyan residents for nongovernmental travel outside Kenya are sub- ject to exchange control approval. Applications for travel tickets must be accompanied by a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the air ticket and 5 percent of the sea ticket, returnable only if the applications are not approved. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require special licenses and may be restricted to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also sub- ject to special licensing. Most other goods may be exported without special licenses other than ex- change control approval. Effective October 1, 1987, coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may no longer be exported unless a sales contract is registered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Authority, respectively. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected in Kenya in an appropriate manner within three months of the date of exportation and sold to the Central Bank of Kenya. Exports of manufactured goods with at least 30 percent domestic value added are eligible for export compensation for duties paid on imported inputs equivalent to 20 percent of the f .o .b. value. About 1,251 export items, other than coffee, tea, sugar, sisal, pyrethrums, horticultural products, petroleum products, soda ash, and most goods produced with raw material inputs not sub- ject to import duty, are covered by the export com- pensation scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in foreign currency or against an External Account. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency notes, except those of countries with restrictions on exportation of their currencies. The importation of domestic bank notes is pro- hibited, except that residents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 200 that they had previously taken out. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are regulated. Transfers to South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings from salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 600,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in al- lowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum, K Sh 200,000 is made available for immediate remittance, and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual install- ments, not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 80,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 200,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in ap- proved securities, and redemption proceeds be- come transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is gener- ally not restricted, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certifi- cate of approved enterprise" for the investment. For- eign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval. Foreign investors may repatriate the value of the original equity invest- ment denominated in the currency in which it was initially made and the value of any profits that were reinvested and denominated in the currency of the original investment. Local borrowing by non- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 275 resident-owned or non-resident-controlled com- panies, as well as borrowing by residents from non- residents, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Capital gains on foreign investors' blocked funds may be invested in government securities. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Purchases of foreign securities by residents are subject to prior approval from the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments June 30. Thirty-five percent of items on Schedule IIIC that were subject to quantitative restrictions were liberalized with their transfer to Schedule IIIB. The average tariff rate on all items previously on Schedules other than IIIC was lowered by about 5 percentage points. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The official currency of Kiribati is the Australian Dollar; a small number of Kiribati coins are also in circulation. There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign ex- change. The Bank of Kiribati quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Australian dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Kiribati formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 22, 1986. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency.2 Purchases and sales of foreign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer, of which the only one is the Bank of Kiribati. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are normally not required. The importation of a limited range of goods is prohibited aU.S. dollars, Fiji dollars, pounds sterling, New Zealand dol- lars, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollars, deutsche mark, Sin- gapore dollars, Canadian dollars, Papua New Guinea kina, Sol- omon Islands dollars, Swiss francs, Tongan pa'anga, Vanuatu vatu, and Western Samoa tala. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Tariffs, which apply to most private imports, are imposed mainly for revenue purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. There are no taxes or quantitative restric- tions on exports, but copra can be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment. All applications for for- eign investment have to be made to the Foreign Investment Commission, which approves applica- tions where total foreign capital contribution to for- eign investments is up to or less than $A 250,000. Applications with higher capital contribution are approved by the Cabinet. Export-promoting or import-substituting investments are preferred. Un- der the Foreign Investment Promotion Act, inves- tors may be granted duty-free imports of capital goods and raw materials. Investments in pioneer industries are eligible for a tax holiday of up to five years. Repatriation of profits and capital is normally unrestricted. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won. Since the introduction of a market average exchange rate sys- tem (MAR) on March 2, 1990, the Korean won- U.S. dollar rate has been determined on the basis of the weighted average of interbank rates for Korean won-U.S. dollar spot transactions of the previous day. During each business day, the Korean won- U.S. dollar exchange rate in the interbank market is allowed to fluctuate within margins of ± 0.4 percent against the MAR. The exchange rates of the won against currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined in relation to the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these currencies in the interna- tional market. For transactions with customers in these currencies, the won is allowed to fluctuate within daily margins of ± 0.8 percent. On Decem- ber 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 715.90 and W 716.10 per U.S. dollar, respectively. The tele- graphic transfer buying and selling rates offered to customers are set freely by foreign exchange banks daily within margins of ± 0.4 percent against the market average exchange rate. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and op- tions between foreign currencies as well as between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward con- tracts in respect of interbank transactions. However, the terms of forward contracts between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank customer must be based on a bona fide transaction, and the contract amount must not exceed the expected receipt or payment on the transaction. Korea formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 1, 1988. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settle- ment, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transac- tions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Gov- ernment's agent, executes most of the above func- tions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control pay- ments related to invisibles and certain capital trans- actions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices of foreign banks in Korea, are autho- rized to engage in commercial international bank- ing and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Korean traders are permitted to enter into export and import contracts denominated in Korean won, provided that settlements are to be made in desig- nated foreign currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of cur- rency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remit- tances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts, for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment, or for payments relating to ap- proved transactions. The sale of foreign currency on deposits for domestic means of payment has been restricted since March 28, 1988. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the foreign currency composition of these accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for most imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Im- ports are divided into two categories: automatic ap- proval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import li- censes are automatically approved), unless they are JIn addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss franc, the list of prescribed currencies comprises the currencies of the member countries of the Fund that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 KOREA on the restricted list. As of the end of Decem- ber 1990, out of 10,274 basic items on the Harmo- nized System, 376 were classified as restricted items. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irre- spective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders, who are required to export and/or import a minimum value of US$0.5 million for at least two calendar years to maintain their status of registered traders. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated. On July 1,1987, a new Trade Act came into effect, which, among other things, introduced a system of safeguards against import surges that is more com- prehensive and less restrictive than the previous system of import surveillance lists and adjustment tariffs. Under the provisions of the Trade Act, a five- member Trade Commission was established on July 1, 1987. The Trade Commission decides if im- ports of foreign products have harmed domestic industries. If substantial injury is ascertained, the Trade Commission recommends the form of import relief to be provided. Possible measures include imposing quotas or other restrictions on the import category in terms of quantity, quality, or other rele- vant factors. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require an individual license. Payments for invisibles connected with for- eign trade and for certain other items, such as bank- ing charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. Korean companies are authorized to obtain foreign exchange to meet the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, pur- chase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$5,000 a trip as the basic travel allowance; addi- tional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. The monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 60 days is US$3,000 (the allowance for Korean nationals working in an overseas branch of a firm is US$10,000). Credit card holders are allowed to charge all expenses that are directly associated with their travel without limit during business and official travel to foreign countries. The basic monthly allowance for students living abroad is US$1,500 for each individual, and for students with a family, an additional allowance of US$500 for the spouse and US$300 for each child is granted. Korean residents are allowed to remit up to US$5,000 a transaction as living expenses to their parents and children living abroad, or as a gift to their relatives abroad for weddings or a donation for funerals. In addition, remittance by a resident of up to US$10,000 a transaction is permitted without ap- proval, provided that the reason for the remittance is confirmed by a foreign exchange bank. The Gov- ernor of the Bank of Korea grants approval for any bona fide exchange application for additional amounts. Korean currency notes in excess of W 2 million and foreign currency notes in excess of the equiv- alent of US$10,000 may not be exported without special permission. Upon leaving the country, non- residents may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of conversion. Foreigners employed by Korean and expatriate firms in Korea may remit their salaries, except for basic living expenses, and retirement allowances to their home countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require individual licenses. All other products may be exported freely under an automatic approval procedure. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must either be sur- rendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate, or be deposited in foreign currency accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. How- ever, Korean residents are authorized to retain up to US$5,000 in foreign exchange. Nonresidents must register the foreign exchange that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$5,000. The importation by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 2 million is restricted. Non- residents are prohibited from converting more than the equivalent of US$50,000 in foreign exchange into won without the approval of the Bank of Korea. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be depos- ited in foreign currency accounts, and the conver- sion of these deposits is subject to approval by a foreign exchange bank after ascertaining the bona fide nature of the transactions; approval is given virtually automatically. Capital All overseas investments and loans by residents to nonresidents require approval. Overseas invest- ments of less than US$2 million by Korean residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 279 are authorized automatically if the documentary re- quirements are met; investments of less than US$5 million are not subject to government deliberation. A Korean business incorporated abroad is allowed to retain profits for the purpose of expanding its overseas investment business or improving its fi- nancial status. The foreign exchange allowance for emigrants is limited to US$200,000 for current ex- penses and US$300,000 a household for investment purposes. Additional allowances for emigrant in- vestment abroad are subject to the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affa irs. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances. Regulations governing foreign investment in Korea and the contracting of loans to residents by nonresi- dents are as follows. Foreign investment Since July 1, 1984, the Foreign Capital Induce- ment Act has provided that direct investment will be allowed in all industries, except those specified in a "negative" list; previously, direct investment was allowed only in industries belonging to a "positive" list. As of the end of April 1991, the negative list consisted of 206 out of a total of 999 industrial sec- tors, implying a liberalization ratio of 79.4 percent. In the manufacturing industries, the negative list consisted of 12 out of 522 sectors, implying a liberal- ization ratio of 97.7 percent. The negative list dis- tinguishes between "prohibited" and "restricted" sectors. The former are activities reserved ex- clusively for the Government or public entities and those that may be injurious to public health or moral standards. Restricted activities are not, in general, open to foreign investment, but specific projects may be approved on a case-by-case basis. Partnership with local firms is generally no longer required of foreign-invested companies. There are no restrictions on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-invested projects that are accompanied by advanced technology. Tax privileges have been con- tinuously reduced, and after-investment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign companies and local companies on an equal basis. In March 1991, a notification system was intro- duced under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. As a result, authorization of foreign investment is now subject to approval or notification require- ments. Under the notification system, a foreign firm is permitted to engage in business 30 days after the date of submission of notification, unless its noti- fication is not approved for reasons of national se- curity or the protection of the environment. The notification system will gradually be expanded, and all liberalized industries, except for a few cases, will be covered by the system as of January 1993. Ac- quisition of land by foreign-invested companies is subject to the approval of the provincial and local governments. Investment approval is normally granted within 30 days. The overseas remittance of dividends and legitimate profits accrued from stocks or shares owned by a foreign investor is freely permitted. The repatriation of foreign capital is also freely permitted. Loans Authorization is required for foreign borrowing. Foreign borrowing of more than US$1 million and with a maturity in excess of three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Control Act. Regulations governing the use of foreign borrowing for short-term trade finance have been tightened on several occasions in recent years. At the end of De- cember 1990, the maximum maturity for trade credits (usance letters of credit) was limited to 30 days for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, the Philip- pines, and Taiwan Province of China (on account of their geographical proximity), and to 60 days for imports originating in other countries. Subject to certain ceilings, foreign bank branches can enter into foreign currency swap transactions with the Bank of Korea at a fixed yield of 0.3 percent to secure funds for their domestic currency lending. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, or sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports of gold in any form other than gold coins in circulation do not require any approval or license. This means that certain com- memorative coins that are legal tender but not in circulation may be freely imported. Exports of gold in any form, other than finished and processed products whose primary component is gold, re- quire the approval of the Bank of Korea. Domes- tically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement March 2. A new market average exchange rate (MAR) system was introduced. Under this new sys- tem, the MAR for the Korean won-U.S. dollar would be based on the weighted average of the previous day's interbank rates for Korean won-U.S. dollar spot transactions. During each business day, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 KOREA Korean won-U.S. dollar exchange rate in the inter- bank market would be allowed to fluctuate within margins of ± 0.4 percent against the MAR. The exchange rates of the won against currencies other than the U.S. dollar would be determined in relation to the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these currencies in the international foreign exchange markets; for transactions with customers in other currencies, the won would be allowed to fluctuate within daily margins of ± 0.8 percent. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Ninety-eight total of 98 items, mostly agricultural products, were liberalized in accor- dance with the 1989-91 import liberalization plan. Under the second phase of the 1989-93 Five-Year Tariff Reduction Program, tariff rates on a large number of products were lowered, reducing the average unweighted tariff rate on total imports to 11.4 percent from 12.7 percent. Tariffs were lowered on 50 items through the es- tablishment of temporary tariff quotas, which ex- pired at the end of 1990. March 1. The requirement of advance import de- posits, ranging from 5 percent to 10 percent against usance (deferred payment) or sight letters of credit opened, was eliminated. May 19. Tariff quotas were established on two items, which remained in effect until the end of 1990. July 1. Tariff quotas were established on nine items, lowering their tariff rates by an average of 4.3 percentage points. Tariff quotas on seven items, which were to expire at the end of July 1990, were extended until the end of 1990. Payments for Invisibles May 1. Foreign exchange banks were required to record on passports all foreign exchange purchased by Korean residents for overseas travel. Capital January 1. The ceiling on the value of the foreign investment subject to automatic approval was raised to US$100 million from US$3 million. The limit on foreign equity investment in advertising firms was increased to 99 percent. March 2. The limits on foreign exchange holdings for investment in foreign securities by domestic se- curities firms authorized to handle international business were increased to US$50 million from US$30 million, and by insurance and investment firms, to US$30 million from US$10 million. July 1. The wholesale of toiletries and cosmetics was opened to foreign investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on August I, 1990)1 Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of a fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies, with the weights reflecting the relative importance of currencies in Kuwait's trade and fi- nancial relations. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On Au- gust 1, 1990, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.28744 and KD 0.28754, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The most common arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official and the commercial banking sectors is handled through dealings in the international for- ward exchange markets. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Africa are prohibited.2 General and individual import licenses are issued by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. A limited control over exports is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and by the Customs and Ports Administration. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Trade and economic agreements are main- aThis survey covers the period January 1-August 1, 1990 (i.e., the period before the occupation of Kuwait by Iraq). Following the withdrawal of Iraq from Kuwait on February 28, 1991, the Central Bank of Kuwait issued, on March 24, circulars to the commercial banks operating in Kuwait instructing that monthly transfers abroad are to be limited to the equivalent of KD 4,000 a person. Transfers of amounts exceeding this limit are permitted with the prior approval of the Central Bank of Kuwait. The limit does not apply to transfers abroad of profits, dividends, or interest of foreign-owned companies investing in Kuwait. 2In addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction. tained with the People's Republic of China, Cyprus, Egypt, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Morocco, Thailand, and Turkey. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruit and vegetables; li- censes, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies. Registered importers handling a variety of com- modities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Imports of industrial equipment, machin- ery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses, valid for onetime use. Licenses are issued to regis- tered and licensed industrial establishments after the approval of the Industrial Development Com- mission at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Private imports of personal objects may be permit- ted under individual or specific licenses. Importa- tion of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork or foods tuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over five years old, portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered im- porters. To be registered, the importer must be ei- ther a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any per- mitted source may be paid freely. In concert with the other member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emi- rates), Kuwait adopted a uniform tariff structure on September 1,1983. In line with the GCC Ministerial Council Resolution adopted on May 18-19, 1983, a minimum tariff of 4 percent was fixed on imports from non-GCC states; tariffs on imports from other GCC countries, which have a local value-added component of at least 40 percent, were abolished. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 KUWAIT In August 1985, in line with a GCC resolution, Kuwait adopted a system of preferential tariffs al- lowing industries catering to at least 40 percent of the local market to apply for tariff protection. Tariff rates differ, depending on the domestic value- added content of the products in question. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20 percent, 30 percent, or 40 percent of domestic value added, protective duties of 15 percent, 20 per- cent, or 25 percent, respectively, may be applied. The degree of protection given by the formula is reduced by 5 percent in the case of consumer goods. In 1985 tariffs of between 15 percent and 25 percent were applied to such products as gypsum, portland cement, fiberglass, paper products, biscuits, glass bottles, and linens. During 1986 customs tariffs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods; in this context, the list of items receiving similar tariff protection was expanded to include paint, building materials, reinforced glass products, com- mercial refrigeration units, central air-conditioning units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, and synthetic sponges. In 1987 the tariffs on steel and iron that had been removed in 1986 were reinstated. During 1989 import tariffs were imposed on air filters for automobiles (25 per- cent) and on wooden nails (15 percent); moreover, tariff protection on a number of other items was extended. Imports of portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders were prohibited for health or safety reasons. In line with a resolution of the November 1986 session of the GCC, Kuwait adopted a priority system for government procure- ment of goods and services, which provides for preference to be accorded to Kuwaiti-produced goods up to a price margin of 5 percent over goods produced in the other GCC states and 10 percent over goods produced outside the GCC. Similarly, goods produced in the other GCC states are ac- corded a 5 percent price margin over goods pro- duced outside the GCC. In total, some 58 items receive tariff protection from the Government. The maximum duty that may be imposed on products that compete with locally manufactured goods is 100 percent. As a general rule, protection is accorded to a firm only if the value added is more than 40 percent. Imports are subject to customs duties at a minimum rate of 4 percent. Imports of foods tuffs as well as some industrial establishments' imports of machinery and equip- ment, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegeta- bles in any form, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emer- gency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms and ammunition require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. No requirements are attached to re- ceipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or other bank notes. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capi- tal in resident corporations in Kuwait; at least 51 percent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by nationals. Beginning in 1983, the participation of nationals of GCC countries in com- panies established in Kuwait may reach up to 75 percent of the capital. In January 1985, the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry resolved, in line with a GCC resolution, to eliminate restrictions regard- ing non-Kuwaiti participation in retail trade enter- prises by GCC nationals as from March 1987. How- ever, import licensing restrictions for non-Kuwaitis were to remain in effect for GCC nationals. No re- strictions are imposed on outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in domestic or foreign stocks in the official Kuwait Stock Ex- change are subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Besides the approved domestic stocks, trading is permitted in certain stocks of companies of the GCC countries, but dealings are restricted to Kuwaiti citizens. The listing of Kuwaiti dinar- denominated bonds in the Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. At the end of 1986,26 Kuwaiti dinar bonds were listed, and foreigners were permitted to sell and buy these bonds in the Exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 283 Gold ~u . .u ... , u , The monetary authorities and merchants reeis- A -j.u *u iur • *«. r ^ j T j i. tered with t he Ministry or Commerce a nd Industry , on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry t l. , <• / j anc* precious metals in any form, manufactured or < -tJ i -^ • L i L c , J LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public is the Kip (KN). The exchange rates are set by the Bank of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (the central bank). On December 31, 1990, the offi- cial exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the central bank was KN 695.0 = US$1 buying and KN 696.0-US$1 selling; these rates are used for all transactions. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, based on the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL), which was a subsidiary of the central bank until it became inde- pendent on November 1, 1989, handles all official foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the central bank, which also adminis- ters exchange controls. The Ministry of Commerce grants import and export authorization to state trad- ing companies, mixed companies (joint ventures between domestic enterprises and foreign inves- tors), cooperatives, and public enterprises. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are im- posed on receipts or payments, but, in principle, the central bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bilateral trad- ing arrangements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Democratic Kamupchea, Mongolia, Po- land, Viet Nam, and the U.S.S.R. These are multi- year trading arrangements and are implemented through annual protocols that specify imports and exports in volume terms and shadow prices (ex- pressed in rubles). Except for trading arrangements with Hungary and the U.S.S.R., all others are on a purely countertrade basis. If balances exist at the end of a given year, agreement must be reached 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. with the partner country to settle the balance dur- ing the first quarter of the following year. In princi- ple, balances have to be settled through trade trans- actions. In the agreement with Hungary, the same regulation applies if the countertrade deficit ex- ceeds a certain line of credit granted by Hungary. Under the trading arrangement with the U.S.S.R., the import value of the Lao People's Democratic Republic may exceed its export value by 200 percent. Trade deficits, up to a maximum limit specified at the outset of the year under the agreement with the U.S.S.R., are converted into long-term loans at the end of each year. Imports and Import Payments Imports are conducted by state trading com- panies, mixed companies, cooperatives, and public enterprises. Import licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and provincial govern- ment authorities, are required only for a select num- ber of goods and are no longer linked to the ability to export. The goods requiring import licenses are motorcycles, cars, rice, petroleum products, ce- ment, steel, and imported products competitive with domestically produced goods of high quality. A national import-export plan is a key element of the trading system. This plan is formulated by the De- partment of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Com- merce and takes into account the plans of individual enterprises and the requests furnished by each min- istry and the provincial governments. Payments for authorized imports are made from retained export earnings, foreign exchange allocated by the BCEL, and foreign exchange obtained from the parallel market. The rates of margin deposits required against letters of credit are determined by the BCEL, on a case-by-case basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce. Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Up to the equivalent of US$2,000 may be provided by the BCEL for travel purposes; for higher amounts, authorization by the Ministry of Commerce is required. Persons holding foreign exchange deposits with the BCEL are per- 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 285 mitted to withdraw foreign exchange up to US$2,000; larger amounts may be withdrawn upon authorization. In practice, there are no restrictions on remittances of profits earned by foreign investors. Exports and Export Proceeds Export trade is conducted by state trading com- panies, mixed companies, cooperatives, and public enterprises. At present, the public sector has a mo- nopoly on the exportation of two strategic goods, namely, logs and minerals. Only the Societe du commerce lao (SCL), provincial trading companies, and specially authorized public enterprises can ex- port these goods. Export licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and provincial gov- ernment authorities, are required only for timber, wood products, coffee, rattan, and cattle. All other goods may be freely exported by the private sector. Export quotas on logs (separately on high-quality logs and sawn timber) have been in effect since March 1989. Exports of gold and silver are pro- hibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. In practice, export earnings are not required to be surrendered; they may be kept in foreign ex- change deposits with the BCEL (to make payment for authorized imports of goods and services, to make payments in foreign currency by check for domestic purposes, and to make cash with- drawals in kip). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as foreign exchange earnings accru- ing from merchandise exports. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents are not permitted. Although not yet officially approved, the Foreign Investment Law regulating inward foreign capital transfers, profit remittances, and the re- patriation of foreign investment capital is being ap- plied. This law imposes no restrictions on these transactions. Gold Residents may buy and sell gold within the coun- try but may not take it abroad unless authorized by the BCEL. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments September 5. Access to import licenses was no longer linked to the ability to export. December 15. Import licenses were required only for motorcycles, cars, rice, petroleum products, ce- ment, steel, and imported products competitive with domestically produced goods of high quality; export licenses were required only for timber, wood products, coffee, rattan, and cattle. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. How- ever, the authorities may announce buying or sell- ing rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the foreign exchange market. On December 31, 1990, the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 8.50 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The duties and taxes on goods and services on amounts invoiced or ex- pressed in foreign currencies are calculated from an exchange rate of US$1 = LL 6. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any currency. How- ever, they are prohibited from engaging in forward transactions exceeding LL 500,000 unless such transactions are related to foreign trade. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange pay- ments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transac- tions with Poland, with which Lebanon has a bilat- eral payments agreement, may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and am- munition, narcotics, and similar products) are ei- ther prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports prohibited year round include wheat, which, in principle, may be imported only by the Government, and citrus fruits, apples, olives (ex- cluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilo- grams), olive oil, and peanuts; imports prohibited during a specified period of the year include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agri- cultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, insulated electric and telephone wires, and cables made of copper. All other commodities may be imported freely without a license. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers pos- sess a valid import license, if required, before is- suing letters of credit. Importers must place with their banks a prior deposit in a local currency amount equivalent to 15 percent of the value of import letters of credit; the banks are not required to deposit such deposits with the Bank of Lebanon. A municipality tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originat- ing in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports, except gold and bank notes, at the rate of LL 3 a thousand of the value of goods. The tariff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomencla- ture. Ad valorem duty rates on most products range from 18 percent to 90 percent, and are applied on a most-favored-nation basis, except for certain im- ports from member countries of the European Eco- nomic Community (EEC) and Arab countries that are accorded a preferential rate. A few products are subject to a specific duty. A surcharge of 10 percent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, imitation jewelry, watches, and al- coholic beverages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles are as follows: 40 percent for vehicles with values of up to LL 10,000; 90 percent for vehicles with values between LL 10,001 and LL 30,000; and 150 percent for vehicles with values exceeding LL 30,000. The rate of surcharge on watches and imitation jewelry is 7 percent. The rates of surcharge on alcoholic beverages are: beer, LL 140 per 100 liters; champagne, 60 percent of the value; wine and arak, 20 percent of the value; and whiskey, 30 per- cent of the value. An additional construction tax of 11 percent and a municipality tax plus an internal tax ranging from LL 2.5 to LL 9.5 a liter are also imposed on champagne, wine, liqueurs, and whis- key. A tax of 60 percent is imposed on other beverages. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and am- munition, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel and South Africa 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 287 are prohibited. Exports of wheat and wheat deriva- tives to any country, and all exports to the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Foreign exchange receipts from exports may be re- tained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Foreign exchange may be obtained or sold in the free market. Banks are prohibited from ex- tending to nonresidents loans in Lebanese pounds and loans secured by guarantees from nonresident banks unless such transactions are for commercial or investment purposes in Lebanon. Banks are pro- hibited from receiving deposits, or opening ac- counts in Lebanese pounds, for nonresident banks and financial institutions. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve require- ment; the required reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that give rise directly to for- eign currency deposits, and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized to maintain long or short net foreign currency posi- tions up to 15 percent of the amount of their capital. However, banks can hold long net foreign currency positions equal to the amount of increases in capital effected after June 1, 1985 and to the general re- serves established after the end of 1985. The amounts of investments in foreign currencies in nonresident banks and financial institutions are not included in net foreign currency positions. Invest- ments in nonresident banks and other foreign in- stitutions are exempt from the net foreign currency positions. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve require- ments and fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits by nonresidents. Also, nonresidents are exempt from the 10 percent tax on interest earnings from foreign currency deposits. Under a National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compen- sation is paid on losses exceeding 10 percent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The impor- tation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be covered by a certificate, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumers, which indicates the gold content and weight. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Loti (plural Mal- oti), which is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 = R 1. Under the Common Monetary Area (CMA) Agreement, the rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were M 2.5575 and M 2.5585, respectively, per US$1. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations. They undertake such operations through their correspondent banks abroad on rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover is not, however, common in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the "financial rand" system, local sales proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents cannot be trans- ferred in foreign currency, but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresidents at a freely de- termined exchange rate and may be used to pur- chase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to fi- nance investments in new firms and certain properties. There are no forward cover arrange- ments for exchange transactions in the financial rand market. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the CMA, which is an ex- change control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement among these countries became effective on April 1, 1986. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, which are uncontrolled and unrecorded ex- cept for statistical and customs purposes. In its rela- tions with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho ap- plies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls exter- nal currency transactions. Authority to approve cer- tain types of current payments is delegated to com- mercial banks up to established limits. Lesotho's trade-licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Ex- cise after recommendation from the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institu- tions and insurance agents are issued by the Central Bank of Lesotho. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs union with Botswana, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. A wide range of imports from out- side the customs union are subject to surcharges ranging from zero to 60 percent. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the customs union. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for reve- nue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is re- stricted to the export of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to Lesotho and surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of cur- rent payments has been delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic annual exchange allowance for tourist travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA area—Malawi, Mozam- bique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—is M 5,000 an adult and M 2,500 a child; the corresponding annual al- lowance for tourist travel to other countries outside the CMA region is M 15,000 and M 7,500, respec- tively. For business travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region, the basic annual allowance is M 10,000 a person at rates not exceeding M 750 a day; the corresponding limits for business travel to other countries are M 22,500 and M 1,200, respec- tively. Higher allowances may be obtained for travel for business and medical treatment purposes. 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 289 Emigrant allowances may be transferred through the financial rand market, up to M 200,000 a family or up to M 100,000 a person. The maximum amount of earnings on blocked assets that emigrants are allowed to transfer through normal banking chan- nels is M 300,000 a year. Any excess may be trans- ferred only through the financial rand. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resi- dent. Certain tax incentives for inward direct invest- ment are provided to manufacturing undertakings approved by a Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969. Funds in blocked maloti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments that may be approved by the CBL. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maximum of M 300,000 a family unit. The transfer by nonresidents of dividends and profits from investments held in Lesotho is not re- stricted provided they were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. An emi- grant family or an individual may export one auto- mobile only, with a maximum value of M 40,000, provided that the automobile was purchased at least one year before emigration. The limit on settling-in allowances that immi- grants are permitted to transfer through the "finan- cial rand" mechanism is M 500,000 a family and M 250,000 a person (unmarried). Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coins that are legal tender. Changes During 1990 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles June 11. The limits on basic annual exchange al- lowances were increased as follows: (1) for tourist travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA area (Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zim- babwe), from the equivalent of M 4,000 to M 5,000 an adult and from the equivalent of M 2,000 to M 2,500 a child; (2) for tourist travel to other coun- tries, from the equivalent of M 10,000 to M 15,000 an adult, and from the equivalent of M 5,000 to M 7,500 a child; (3) for business travel to the neighboring countries, from the equivalent of M 8,000 to M 10,000 a person, with an increase in a daily limit from M 600 to M 750; and (4) for business travel to other countries, from the equivalent of M 15,000 to M 22,500 a person, with an increase in a daily limit from M 750 to M 1,200. The limit on allowances that emigrants are permitted to transfer abroad through the "financial" rand system was increased from the equivalent of M 100,000 to M 200,000 a family and from M 50,000 to M 100,000 a person. September 25. Settling-in allowances that immi- grants are permitted to transfer through the "fin- ancial rand" were increased from M 100,000 to M 500,000 a family and from M 50,000 to M 250,000 a person (unmarried). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 = US$1. There is no official intervention. The currency of the United States is legal tender in Liberia and circu- lates along with Liberian coins and the $5 note.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Export- and import-licensing regulations are ad- ministered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Some exporters must pay their withholding taxes and corporate income taxes in U.S. dollars. Hotels are required to receive payments from foreign guests in foreign exchange. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Bur- kina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are nor- mally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. These items include safety matches, electrode welding rods, and lique- fied petroleum gas. Imports of arms and ammuni- tion and explosives require prior licenses. In addi- tion, imports of certain goods (e.g., narcotics other aU .S. dollar notes, which used to form the major portion of the currency in circulation, have almost totally disappeared from circulation. Full convertibility between the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar at par does not, de facto, exist. The U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in large parallel market transac- tions, and commercial banks charge abnormally high commis- sions for their sales of offshore funds. Foreign exchange dealers other than banks are permitted to buy and sell currencies other than the U.S. dollar at market-determined exchange rates. than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from South Africa are prohibited. The Liberian National Petroleum Company (LNPC) has the exclusive right to import petroleum. Licenses to import rice are issued to private distributors by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A surtax of 10 percent is levied on a range of imports. Preshipment inspection of imports is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quantity, and the value of all goods to be shipped to Liberia. Both final and intermediate goods are sub- ject to inspection, except for imports with an f .o .b. value of less than $3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are at present required for elephant tusks and ivory, wild animals, cement, agricultural prod- ucts other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms and ammunition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely; they serve mainly to enforce the 25 percent sur- render of export proceeds and taxation or, for agri- cultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin. In August 1988, a regulation requiring that wood products for export must have a local processing content of at least 5 percent was enacted. The required local content was raised to 10 percent in 1990. Exporters are required to surrender 25 per- cent of export proceeds to the National Bank of Liberia through the commercial banks; in practice this requirement is not strictly enforced. The Gov- ernment and the National Bank of Liberia receive priority for the purchase of this foreign exchange. That portion of the foreign exchange surrender that is not purchased by the public sector is then made available to commercial banks at par. An export tax at the rate of 15 percent a troy ounce is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no governmental limitations on pay- ments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, other than a limit of $1,000 a person on 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 291 capital export in the form of cash. Under the Invest- ment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), , L , , . t , . ' enterprises undertaking new investment projects ,5 . , r. ^r. . j . may be granted a five-year, 90 percent duty exemp- ^ J . ^ c L • * j i - tion on imports of r aw materials a nd machinery, . . , . r total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 per- .. . , , r.. cent exemption on distributable profits, and a pro- j. TU j. ^ tective tanff on competing imported products. The i. •cc ^ ^ j j five-year incentive may be renewed for a further two year period in certain circumstances. cn Gold T * j i. r i j • r u Imports and exports of gold in any form are sub- • . . i- • j i_ ^ **• • . r T j iect to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, :,. ,„ . /,. • j r i Mines and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, , A ,. i- ^j ^ - ^ -i but export licenses are granted restnctively. r ° ^u ^ . Changes During 1990 ° No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 1 f t f tn y ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution° SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (the Jamahiriya) is the Libyan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1.00 = SDR 2.80. Margins not exceeding 7.25 percent are allowed around this fixed relationship, and the dinar has been depreciated to the maximum extent permitted within those margins to LD 1.00 = SDR 2.60465. Buying and selling rates of the Libyan dinar in terms of 17 currencies1 are based on their exchange rates vis-a-vis the SDR, as communicated by the IMF. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, as of the end of December 31, 1990 was LD 0.269869 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in for- eign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor im- porters or exporters are allowed to enter into for- ward commitments in foreign currencies. Since 1985, fees have been levied on outward foreign ex- change transfers for the purpose of financing the Great Man-Made River Project. These fees have re- sulted in a deviation between the official exchange rate and the effective rate applied to these transfers. There are no other taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the Popular Congresses and executed by the General People's Committee for the Economy and Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling, but payments for Libyan oil exports are not 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. accepted in U.S. dollars. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is gainfully employed in the country is permitted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain a Nonresident Account in Libyan Dinars with any authorized bank. Legitimate earnings of such nonresidents can be credited to their Nonresi- dent Accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have au- thority to credit interest earned on savings balances in these Nonresident Accounts. All other credits to Non- resident Accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits of such accounts, see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors un- dertaking contracts in their own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the prescribed evidence, but, in general, remittance is permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Non-resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to Blocked Ac- counts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in Blocked Accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Jamahiriya, up to LD 500 a year, to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a Blocked Account for five years, they qualify, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in full to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The Blocked Accounts of persons (with certain excep- tions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; balances credited before March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports included in the annual Com- modity Budget are undertaken exclusively by state- owned enterprises without license. Importers are 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 293 required to deal directly with producers abroad and not through intermediaries. However, imports not included in the annual Commodity Budget are sub- ject to licensing. Resident and nonresident firms undertaking development projects may import needed items that are not included in the annual Commodity Budget and not available locally. There is a prohibited import list, consisting mainly of consumer and luxury goods.2 Only gov- ernment agencies may act as commercial agents, including import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company controlled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation of gold and precious metals. Under Decision No. 248 of Jan- uary 1989, import trade by private companies and partnerships has been permitted. With the excep- tion of strategic goods3 retained by public corpora- tions, all other goods may be imported by either public or private entities within the provisions of the annual Commodity Budget. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits re- quire central bank approval. Exchange permits re- quired for imports are readily granted by the autho- rized banks following central bank approval, provided that there is a firm contract and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Economy and Foreign Trade and, if the import is to be made on a letter-of-credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, an authorized bank may not open a letter of credit for the importation of consumer durable goods without a required cash margin based on the import price. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration con- firming clearance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents. Imports are subject to customs duties and customs surcharges, the latter consisting of 10 per- cent of the applicable customs duty. All Tunisian products and certain Moroccan products are ex- empt from duties. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. 2These include mineral water, fruit juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegetables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, fresh fruit, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxury cars, and furs. 3These are nine essential food items, medicine, milk, meat, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold. Remittances from nonresident accounts main- tained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to limits spec- ified below: (1) nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, and foreign com- panies may remit up to 50 percent of their net sal- aries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer, or up to 75 percent of net salary if their contracts specify that both lodging and board at worksites in remote areas will be made available free of charge by the employer in accor- dance with applicable Libyan laws and regulations; (2) nonresidents employed by the Libyan private sector may remit up to 50 percent of their net sal- aries, provided that the monthly net remittance does not exceed LD 40 for agricultural and unskilled workers, and LD 60 for technical workers. In gen- eral, nonresidents may not transfer income derived from overtime work. In addition to limits on trans- fers, there is an upper limit of LD 400 on the value of goods that nonresidents going abroad permanently can take out; the value in excess of this allowance is deducted from the transferable portion of earnings. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regula- tions. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and techni- cians within the limits mentioned. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, in- cluding tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for chil- dren between the ages of 10 and 18) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Jam- ahiriya. Additional amounts may be granted in spe- cial circumstances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any trav- eler's checks or foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and declared to customs. Travelers leaving the Jamahiriya may not take out Libyan currency. All other payments for invisibles, as well as pay- ments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Export proceeds must be received through an au- thorized bank within six months of shipment. Ex- ports of nonmonetary gold (other than for process- ing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized com- modities, are also prohibited. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Export Promo- tion Council established under Decision No. 523 of September 1988 helps exporters to enter foreign markets by providing information on demand con- ditions abroad and on potential exports. Also, as an incentive to export, exporters are allowed to retain up to 40 percent of foreign exchange earnings in a special account that may be used to finance their own imports. Exporters do not need an export li- cense for these exports but must register with the Council and supply, on a regular basis, the relevant documentation on their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surren- dered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank, an exchange office, or a hotel licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in un- limited amounts, which they must declare to customs. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a minimum local expenditure of US$50 for each day spent in the country. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per- cent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred on the basis described above in the section under Payments for Invisibles. Central bank approval is required and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970 is permitted on a minority basis but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local require- ments, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the sur- plus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial firms are now owned by Libyans to varying degrees, and 51 percent or more of the Libyan interests in the international oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be owned in the Jamahiriya only by Libyans. Non-resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Ac- counts, above). Residents must obtain the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permission from the Secretariat of the General People's Com- mittee for the Economy and Foreign Trade to pur- chase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in se- curities. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and pre- cious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic gold- smiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 percent. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. The exchange rate for the Malagasy franc is managed flexibly with reference to a basket of sev- eral currencies. The weight assigned to each cur- rency in the basket is based on the distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. There is no sin- gle intervention currency, although the majority of transactions take place in French francs and U.S. dollars. In accordance with the movement in the basket, the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM) adjusts the Malagasy franc exchange rates on a daily basis against ten currencies1, which it quotes. The authorized banks are not permitted to maintain an exchange position in any foreign currency, although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On December 31, 1990, the midpoint rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Madagas- car was FMG 1,465.83 - US$1. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are consid- ered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward in- vestments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through such intermediaries. With the extensive use of the Liberalized Imports System (SILI) for all imports, effective July 1, 1988, all economic agents are allowed to import and re- ceive the total amount of foreign exchange re- quested at the prevailing exchange rate. However, a list of imports, which currently includes 77 customs nomenclatures, is subject to administrative control, mainly for security and health reasons. Since Sep- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. tember 1, 1988, private operators and state trading companies have been authorized to export, with the exception of vanilla, to any market at prices freely negotiated by exporters and importers. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries, which may deal with the Central Bank of Madagascar in any of the quoted currencies. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Mauritius. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Blocked Account, bal- ances of which may be used by the holder for per- sonal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Any other operation requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Transactions between enterprises in the Free Trade Zone and residents are conducted through the en- terprises' Foreign Accounts in Malagasy francs. These enterprises are also permitted to maintain foreign exchange accounts with local banks, which are required to transfer to the Central Bank foreign exchange credited by the enterprises to their For- eign Accounts. Imports and Import Payments Under the SILI, which was introduced in Feb- ruary 1, 1988 and extended to all imports on July 1, 1988, all economic agents that are listed in the Trade Register and are in good standing legally and with the tax administration may import and receive the total amount of foreign currency requested at the prevailing exchange rate. Import licenses are not required for imports financed with foreign ex- change that has been surrendered to the CBM, and all administrative formalities are handled by the banks through which the import transactions are effected. No restrictions of any kind apply to the 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 MADAGASCAR opening of credit or the means of financing imports; importers may use their own resources, borrow from the banking system, or avail themselves of external loans, including suppliers' credits, to fi- nance imports. The temporary requirement under the SILI that importers set aside provisions in local currency covering the full amount of their imports was abolished on May 10, 1988, and each commer- cial bank is free to decide on the desirability of requiring such a provision, on the basis of its finan- cial evaluation of importers. In accordance with Notice (Avis) No. 10-MC/DGCE of January 21,1988, amended by Revision No. 123-MC/DGCE of April 26, 1989, all import prohibitions have been lifted, except for 77 items in the customs nomencla- ture, mainly for health and security reasons. On January 1, 1988, the authorities introduced the first stage of a comprehensive tariff reform that replaced quantitative import restrictions with a sim- plified 16 rates (multiples of 5), the minimum rate of 5 percent, the maximum rate of 80 percent, and a temporary surcharge of 30 percent on certain prod- ucts aimed at facilitating the transition. All imports except those that were simplified in accordance with international treaties were made subject to a minimum rate of 5 percent, on a collection basis. As a result, the tariffs tended to be harmonized at the four-digit level. In the second stage of the reform, which took effect on January 1, 1989, the minimum tariff rate was raised to 10 percent, except for certain products, namely, fertilizers, pesticides, phar- maceutical products and inputs, and optical glass. In addition, the Government reduced certain tariffs and the temporary surcharge, which was lowered to 10 percent from 30 percent and suspended entirely for meats and edible organs. On January 1,1990, the 10 percent temporary surcharge was eliminated, and the maximum tariff rate of 80 percent was ap- plied to products previously subject to the sur- charge. At the same time, the maximum tariff rate for the other products was reduced to 65 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance and Budget, which has delegated approval authority to the Directorate of the Treasury and to authorized intermediaries, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Payments for invisibles re- lated to authorized imports are not restricted, ex- cept for agency fees (commissions de representations), the settlement of which is subject to the submission of a contract previously approved by the Minister for Finance (Treasury Directorate). Residents may purchase foreign exchange for tourism subject to an annual limit of FMG 180,000 a person a year (FMG 90,000 for children under 10 years). Any foreign exchange remaining a f ter re turn to Madagascar must be surrendered. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel is the equivalent of US$100 a person a day, subject to a maximum of US$1,500 a trip and a limit of two trips a year. Authorized banks may not sell foreign bank notes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist travel. Ap- plications for additional amounts and applications for exchange for any other type of travel must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Applications for additional foreign exchange may be approved for bona fide business trips and for medical trea tment abroad, but not for tourism. Allocations for d i f fe rent types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Direc- torate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and cer- tain other current invisibles. The transfers of divi- dends and profits to nonresident shareholders who are physical or juridical persons of foreign na- tionality are fully liberalized under the terms of the Investment Code and the Industrial Free Trade Zone when they are distributed by industrial firms. However, under the Common Law (droit commun), dividends payable to these stockholders are trans- ferable at 100 percent, of which only 75 percent are immediately transferable for nonindustrial enter- prises. The transfer of savings from wages and sal- aries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employment permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 35 percent of the net salary for bachelors and persons whose families are in Madagascar, and up to 60 percent for those whose families live outside Madagascar (100 per- cent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagascar); in all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed the equivalent of FMG 6,000 a per- son a month. This ceiling does not apply to expatri- ates working in enterprises that are operating under the Investment Code (Code d'investissement). Remit- tances for medical treatment abroad are permitted when properly documented. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign bank notes and coins and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 297 Exports and Export Proceeds On September 1, 1988, a new export law was enacted, whereby all exporters listed in the Trade Register in good standing and having no tax obliga- tions in arrears can freely export their products, except vanilla, at prices negotiated directly between exporters and importers. Furthermore, the require- ment of quality control or certification of exportable goods by the Government has been abolished for a number of products and is now limited to only four: vanilla, coffee, seafood, and meat. Certificates of quality on exports of cloves have also been abol- ished. Mining products are covered by a special arrangement under the mining law. Quality control is limited to a quality or sanitary inspection certifi- cate from the competent government agency or, at the option of the exporter, an internationally recog- nized specialized private company. For vanilla and coffee, the control is effected at the level of stocks and not at the time of embarkation. For seafood and meat, the certificate of origin and quality standard must be included in the documents for embarkation in the absence of an arrangement directly agreed upon by the importer and exporter in conformity with international agreements. Since the 1988/89 crop year, all coffee producers have been permitted to freely negotiate and execute export contracts. Apart from Madagascar's interna- tional commitments under the International Coffee Organization, there was no prior authorization re- quirement or other administrative restriction on cof- fee exports by economic agents. During this period, a reference price, established by the National Coffee Trading Committee on the basis of international data and updated weekly, was used as the basis for calculating taxes on exports and for determining the amount of foreign exchange to be repatriated. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment unless an exemption is granted by the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Export proceeds of enterprises operating in the Free Trade Zone must be repatriated within a maximum of 190 days of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income or pro- ceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresi- dents must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency as means of payment and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and for- eign countries and between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to prior authorization by the Min- istry of Finance and Budget. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward di- rect investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar2 and the corresponding transfers require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Budget (the Director- ate of the Treasury). Direct foreign investments abroad by Malagasy nationals3 are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Bud- get. The total or partial liquidation of such invest- ments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy in- vestments abroad or foreign investments in Mada- gascar, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each transaction. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company. Proceeds from liquidation of foreign in- vestment may be repatriated with the prior authori- zation of the Ministry of Finance and Budget. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior au- thorization by the Minister of Finance and Budget. Exempt from authorization are operations in con- nection with shares similar to securities whose is- sue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Budget, although loans contracted by autho- rized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the Free Trade Zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization pay- ments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Lending abroad is subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Budget. In accordance with the Investment Code of De- cember 29, 1989 (Law No. 89026), enterprises bene- 2Including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Madagascar. Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 MADAGASCAR fiting from preferential treatment under the Code are granted an exemption from import taxes exceed- ing 10 percent on materials used in the production process. Enterprises operating in the Industrial Free Trade Zone established on December 29, 1989 may import these materials free of duty and tax. Gold The purchase of gold in the country from holders of valid gold-mining titles or from authorized holders of gold-washing rights is carried out by "ap- proved collectors" acting in their own name and on their own account. The price of gold may be set freely by buyers and sellers. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Indus- try and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Cen- tral Bank, and (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 carats of numismatic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. The holder of a valid gold-mining title or the holder of a gold- washing permit or rights is free to sell the gold he has recovered to any approved collector of his choice. However, Malagasy authorities, repre- sented by the Central Bank of Madagascar or its agents, may exercise their right of pre-emption with regard to the purchase of gold produced in the country. Changes During 1990 Imports amd Import Payments January 1. The 10 percent temporary surcharge was eliminated, and the maximum tariff rate of 80 percent was applied to products previously sub- ject to the surcharge. At the same time, the max- imum tariff rate for the other products was reduced to 65 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to a basket of currencies based on the geographical composition of Malawi's trade and the invoicing currencies in Malawi's foreign exchange transactions. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) is determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar in terms of the SDR. On Decem- ber 31, 1990, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 2.6337 and MK 2.6603, respectively, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Jap- anese yen, the pound sterling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates as communicated by the International Monetary Fund. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the offi- cial or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the RBM under the authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism (MTIT), which is also responsible for issuing import and export licenses. Commercial banks are authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Ma- lawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency1 traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in Ma- lawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident ac- 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. counts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign cur- rency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha to foreign countries by Malawian residents, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while he is tem- porarily resident in Malawi. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior autho- rization of the exchange control authorities. Nor- mally, authorization is given for the investment of balances of Blocked Accounts in an approved man- ner. On application to the exchange control au- thorities, the interest on Blocked Account balances is normally transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are subject to the open general li- censing system. However, for a number of items,2 specific import licenses are required from the MTIT. Goods originating in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) may be imported under an open general license. Specific import licenses are usually issued within a week of application, and are normally valid for a period of six months. To obtain foreign exchange for imports, private sector importers must file with a commercial bank an application for an import order, accompanied by pro forma invoices, including, where necessary, a specific import license. Commercial banks are au- thorized to approve, without reference to the RBM, virtually all applications to import goods with the exception of those on the negative list.3 For goods on 2Certain agricultural and food products, new (military-type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 3These include alcoholic beverages, precious stones, electrical goods, and noncommercial passenger vehicles. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 MALAWI the negative list, import order applications filed with commercial banks must be approved by the Exchange Control Department of the RBM. When imports arrive in the country and pay- ments are due, the importer must submit applica- tions for foreign currency payments. Such applica- tions must be accompanied by relevant customs documents. Commercial banks may require coun- terpart deposits depending on means of payment (e.g., letters of credit). This is a matter of banking practice and is not required by official regulations; approval of the RBM is required in the case of for- eign exchange applications for payment of restricted imports. Prepayment for imports is allowed, with the per- mission of the exchange control authorities. Im- porters are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Customs tariffs on nongovernment imports are ad valorem and range from zero to 45 percent of the c .i .f. value, with a weighted average of about 21 per- cent. Government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax, which is applied on the c . i .f. value, including customs tariffs.4 The surtax rates range from zero to 35 percent for nonluxury items, and from 55 percent to 100 percent for luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, up to certain limits and without reference to the exchange control authorities, for certain invisible payments, e.g., private travel, edu- cation, medical treatment, and family maintenance. The basic exchange allowances for private travel are: MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year; MK 200 a year for children up to 10 years of age; and MK 300 a year for children between the ages of 10 and 18 years. Annual travel allowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 percent if the traveler has not applied for an allowance during the preceding three years. Al- lowances are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 400 a trip for any number of trips in a year. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi cur- rency and £10 or US$15 in bank notes, or the equiv- alent of £10 or US$15 in any other convertible for- 4The surtax is levied on both imported and domestically pro- duced manufactured goods. eign currency notes, in addition to their basic travel allowance. Foreign exchange for payments for most other invisibles (or for amounts exceeding standard basic allowances such as those mentioned above) requires the prior approval of the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the RBM. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary em- ployment permit are allowed to remit, subject to RBM approval, up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities5 are subject to export licens- ing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be surrendered no later than five working days after payment has been made to the exporter's account in a foreign bank. Minor specific duties or cesses are levied on exports of hides and skins and tobacco.6 Under a duty drawback scheme, customs tariffs paid on imports of certain inputs used by manufac- tured exports are rebated. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of non-debt-creating capital are not restricted. The taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control ap- proval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled mainly for residents. Nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country. Apart from the need to obtain exchange control approval, there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign- owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing to finance the transfer. Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic en- ergy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 6The cess on tobacco is also levied, with some exemptions, on tobacco sold locally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 301 Residents may not purchase any foreign se- curities without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to non-resident- controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt there is excessive recourse to local borrowing and that a firm has brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Departing persons over 50 years of age, whether single or married, are allowed exchange equivalent up to MK 15,000. Married persons under the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a max- imum of MK 8,000 for a family. Unmarried persons under the age of 50 years are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but on the anniversary of his departure date from Malawi, a sum equal to the original emi- gration allowance is permitted to be transferred to the new country of residence, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments April 2. The prior foreign exchange approval re- quirement of the Reserve Bank of Malawi in respect of several categories of nonindustrial equipment and related goods and a number of consumer prod- ucts was abolished. (Effective January 10, 1991, vir- tually all imports into Malawi were permitted with- out prior approval from the Reserve Bank of Malawi. Commercial banks were authorized to approve all import order applications, except for a few items on the negative list; the negative list includes alcoholic beverages, precious stones, electrical goods, and noncommercial passenger vehicles.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. The ex- ternal value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of its relationship to a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malaysia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is determined in the foreign exchange market, and the Central Bank of Malaysia inter- venes only to moderate volatile daily fluctuations in the value of the ringgit in relation to the basket of currencies. Rates for all other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. On December 31,1990, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was M$2.6980 = US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies, other than Israeli and South African currencies, to customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies other than Israeli and South African currencies, and are free to determine the rates. For- ward exchange contracts may be in respect of both commercial or financial transactions. Forward cover for the commercial banks is provided usually for up to six months for purchases and sales at market rates. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Government, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the au- thority for approving payments abroad is delegated to the authorized banks. The authority for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Department of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of import licensing throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Indus- tries, the Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veterin- ary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made either in ringgit or in any currency other than Israeli and South African cur- rencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel and South Africa must be obtained ac- cording to the timing of payment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in any foreign currency except currencies of Israel and South Africa or in ringgit from an Exter- nal Account. Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are designated as External Accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to External Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever purpose are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amoun ts above M$10,000. The proceeds f rom the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amounts exceeding M$10,000, permission may be given by authorized commercial banks. Balances in External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli and South Afr ican currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel and South Africa are designated as Israeli Accounts and South African Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fully unified. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, import licenses are required for certain imports as specified in Customs (Prohibition of Imports) Order 1988, for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before import licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries. These restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 303 Imports of motor vehicles are subject to an import license with quantitative restrictions (quota). Move- ments of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement per- mits issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of meat, bones, hides, skin, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any portion thereof from all countries require an import license. Imports of pri- mates require an import license, subject to approval from the Department of Wildlife and National Parks. Payments for permitted imports valued up to M$10,000 from any country other than Israel and South Africa may be made without restriction after exchange control requirements have been met. Pay- ments in excess of M$10,000 require completion of forms and approval by any authorized commercial bank. Raw materials and machinery for the manufactur- ing sector are eligible for preferential duty treat- ment as follows: (1) raw materials for the produc- tion of goods for the domestic market that are not manufactured locally are subject to a reduced rate of customs duty of 3 percent; (2) manufacturers for the domestic market can be fur ther exempted from this 3 percent customs duty if they comply with specific requirements in terms of equity participa- tion, management, and employment structure; (3) all raw materials for the production of goods can be imported and acquired free from sales tax; (4) for companies that manufacture products for the ex- port market, full exemption from customs duty is granted when local materials are competitive in price and quality; (5) all customs duties and sales tax on imported machinery and equipment that are unavailable locally and are used in the manufactur- ing process can be considered for exemption; and (6) customs duties and sales tax drawback can be claimed by any manufacturer on imported raw ma- terials or components that are incorporated in the finished products and exported within 12 months of the date upon which the customs duty or sales tax was paid. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made without re- striction after exchange control requirements have been met. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange available for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, royalties, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$10,000. There is no restriction on the export of currency notes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are totally pro- hibited. Exports of sawlogs more than 30 centime- ters in diameter from Peninsular Malaysia are pro- hibited. For sawlogs 30 centimeters in diameter and less, only those species other than the 27 banned species are allowed to be exported. The customs areas and export control systems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Ex- change control forms have to be completed for ex- ports valued at more than M$20,000 f .o .b. a ship- ment (for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except when exports are valued at more than M$100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the timing of payments spec- ified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of export, in any foreign currency except the curren- cies of Israel and South Africa, or in ringgit from an External Account. This regulation does not apply to commercial samples or goods exported for repair or exchange. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Mal- aysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of roofing tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in whatever form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the sec- ond schedule of the Customs (Prohibition of Ex- ports) Order, 1988, of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to licensing. Export incentives are provided to companies ex- porting Malaysian products. The main incentives include abatement of adjusted income for manufac- tured exports, an export allowance for agricultural products, double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit financing, and duty drawbacks. Proceeds-from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts from invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. No limita- tion is imposed on the importation of currency notes by travelers. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines is- sued on February 20,1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) require prior ap- proval by the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC). The guidelines stipulate that the following inward investments require the approval of the FIC: (1) proposed acquisition of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) proposed acquisition ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 MALAYSIA of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that will result in ownership or control pass- ing to foreign interests; (3) proposed acquisition of 15 percent or more of the voting power (equity inter- ests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by foreign interest in the aggregate of 30 percent or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, management agreement, or technical assistance or other arrangement; (5) merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) other proposed acquisition of assets or in- terests exceeding M$5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a for- eign interest does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involves subscription by any foreign interest require the approval of the FIC under the following conditions: (1) the total price of new interest subscribed by any foreign interest ex- ceeds 15 percent of the voting power in the relevant company; (2) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, any foreign interest increases its voting power to more than 15 percent in the relevant com- pany; (3) the total of the new interest subscribed by several foreign interests increases their joint voting power to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (4) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, the aggregate holding of several foreign interests increases to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company. An increase in paid-up capital as in (2) above would also include any Malaysian company that increases its paid-up capital to more than M$5 million upon incorporation and in which either the holding of foreign interest constitutes more than 15 percent of its voting power or the joint holding of several for- eign interests constitutes 30 percent or more of its voting power. For projects that involve the extraction or exploita- tion of nonrenewable resources, majority foreign equity participation of up to 100 percent is permit- ted. To determine the percentage for these projects, criteria (e.g., level of investment, technology, risk involved, availability of Malaysian expertise in the area of exploration, the degree of integration, and level of value added involved) are taken into consid- eration. Foreign investors must negotiate with the Ministry of Trade and Industry if they cannot find local partners. A firm must export at least 20 percent of its production. For agricultural projects, the ap- proval of the State Government with regard to land ownership is required. For new hotel and tourist projects, foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is allowed for five years from the date of operation, after which it will be reduced to 51 percent. Foreign investors whose applications were re- ceived during the period of October 1,1986-Decem- ber 31, 1990 were permitted to hold an equity of up to 100 percent if the company exported 50 percent or more of its production or employed 350 full-time Malaysian workers and the products did not com- pete with products currently being manufactured locally for the domestic market. Export sales are defined to include sales to free-trade zones and licensed manufacturing warehouses. Foreign inves- tors whose applications have been received since January 1, 1991, are permitted to hold an equity up to 100 percent, if the company exports 80 percent or more of its production, irrespective of whether or not the company's products compete with products currently being manufactured locally for the do- mestic market. These guidelines do not, however, apply to new projects in the "metal pressworking/ stamping" industry or new projects in the "plastic components for the electrical and electronics" in- dustry. Foreign equity participation in these two industries is restricted to a maximum of 60 percent, if the company exports 80 percent or more of its production to FTZs and/or LMWs within the coun- try, that is, it exports indirectly. However, if the company exports 100 percent of its production di- rectly outside the country, foreign equity participa- tion of 100 percent is allowed. Foreign investors are allowed to hold, subject to certain conditions, equity of up to 100 percent for a period of five years from the date of production in new manufacturing and integrated agricultural projects catering for the domestic market in cases where local participation cannot be found. After five years, the foreign equity ownership will be restruc- tured according to the existing foreign equity guide- lines for the manufacturing sector. Permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is not required for direct and portfolio investments by Malaysian resi- dents in countries other than Israel and South Af- rica, provided that they have not obtained any do- mestic credit. If an investor has any domestic credit, he must obtain prior approval from the Central Bank for such investments. Commercial banks are not encouraged to give loans to finance investments abroad that are considered unlikely to lead to long- term benefits for the economy; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive ca- pacity in Malaysia. Commercial banks are permit- ted to have a short or a long foreign exchange posi- tion, ranging from M$10 million to M$100 million, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 305 based on the limit approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. The proceeds from investments may be repatri- ated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$10,000. Companies in Malaysia that are con- trolled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$10 million without exchange con- trol approval, provided that total credit facilities ob- tained by the borrower in Malaysia do not exceed M$10 million, and that the borrower obtains at least 60 percent of his total domestic credit facilities, in- cluding trade-related facilities, from commercial banks and other financial institutions incorporated in Malaysia. All applications for credit facilities by nonresidents and nonresident-controlled com- panies to finance the acquisition of immovable prop- erty in Malaysia require the approval of the Control- ler of Foreign Exchange. As a matter of policy, applications from nonresidents and nonresident- controlled companies to obtain any domestic fi- nancing solely for property acquisition and develop- ment purposes are not approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. However, applications from nonresident-controlled companies for domestic fi- nancing to acquire or develop immovable property for productive purposes, such as manufacturing or for promoting tourism in Malaysia, are treated flexibly. Borrowing in foreign currencies from nonresi- dents may be made freely for loans of M$l million or less, provided that the total outstanding amount owed by the borrower to nonresidents, including undrawn facilities, does not exceed the equivalent of M$l million; for amounts exceeding this limit, permission must be obtained from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, stating the main terms and con- ditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan proceeds would be used. However, loans in foreign currencies in excess of the equivalent of M$200,000 and up to the equivalent of M$l million must be reported to the Controller of Foreign Ex- change. Foreign borrowing in ringgit of any amount requires prior approval, and such approval is nor- mally not granted. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be permitted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Controller, provided that these payments are in accordance with the ap- proved terms and conditions of the loans. Commer- cial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia can lend in foreign currency to residents and can accept de- posits in foreign currency from nonresidents. Loans in foreign currency by banks in Malaysia must be for business or productive purposes in Malaysia, in- cluding (but not exclusively) payments for the im- portation of goods and services, payments of inter- est or repayment of principal on loans from nonresidents, or payments for the purchase from nonresidents of immovable properties in Malaysia or stocks and shares. In addition, for the purchase of property or shares: (1) the FIC must give its ap- proval; (2) the amount borrowed must not exceed the equivalent of M$25 million; and (3) repayment of principal cannot be made with funds borrowed in ringgit from residents. Approval of the Controller is required for all other foreign currency loans. As an incentive, interest paid to nonresidents by the com- mercial banks is exempted from payment of the 20 percent withholding tax. Intercompany accounts, which exclude proceeds from the export of Malaysian goods and proceeds from loans extended to Malaysian companies, can be maintained with associate companies outside Malaysia, provided that monthly returns are sub- mitted to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. In addition, companies located in free-trade zones, or those that are licensed manufacturing warehouses, may, with prior permission from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, be allowed to offset their export proceeds through intercompany accounts against payables to their affiliated or parent companies overseas for the supply of raw materials and components. Gold Residents of Malaysia are freely permitted to deal (i.e., purchase, sell, import, export, borrow, etc.) in gold in whatever state or form with any person except residents of Israel and South Africa. Changes During 1990 Capital November 9. Applications from nonresidents and non-resident-controlled companies to obtain any domestic financing solely for property acquisition and development purposes would not be approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. However, applications from non-resident-controlled com- panies for domestic financing to acquire or develop immovable property for productive purposes, such as manufacturing, or for promoting tourism in Mal- aysia would be treated liberally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa. Since March 1, 1987, the Maldives Mone- tary Authority (MMA) has followed a floating ex- change rate policy under which the exchange rate has been determined by demand and supply condi- tions in the market, although the MMA may inter- vene in the market when deemed appropriate. The midpoint exchange rate of the rufiyaa in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1990 was Rf 9.355 = US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade regulations are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Since March 1, 1987, all tourism bills must be settled in foreign currency. There are no restrictions on maintaining balances in foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; and there are no restrictions on keeping foreign currency balances. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. Staple commodities (such as rice, wheat, flour, and sugar), medicines, and avia- tion fuel are mainly imported by the State Trading Organization. Effective January 1, 1989, all quan- titative import restrictions were abolished, and goods may be imported under an Open General License system (OGL). Licenses are issued auto- matically, and they are used for customs clearance purposes. Ad valorem import duties are calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports. Medicines and text- books are duty free as are some items imported for personal use. Duty rates on daily necessities and essentials range from 5 percent to 30 percent, and those on luxuries and items that are not essential for economic development range from 35 percent to 200 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic or foreign currency without any restrictions. Tourist resorts, hotels, and guest houses must pay their taxes and rent in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Export operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed by the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The private sector may export most items, with the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. However, fish caught in the Exclusive Eco- nomic Zone (EEZ), may be exported with a license. Exports of black coral and tortoise shells are pro- hibited, except in the form of a product. An export duty is levied on ambergris exported by a Maldi- vian, goods exported by a Maldivian jointly with a foreigner, and goods exported by a foreigner; re- exports are exempt. Exporter^ of dutiable goods are required to import goods or foreign exchange equal to the value of the goods exported, within the time period specified in the license. The Government may require the exporters of nondutiable exports to import specified goods not exceeding 33 percent of the value of the goods exported. However, this re- quirement has not been applied to date. The Gov- ernment earns royalties on the export of fish caught outside the 75-mile zone from the shore line. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Trav- elers may bring in any amount of foreign currency without restriction. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES 307 market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or U JT j j- j. • j. i. • abroad. Inward direct investment requires ap- , A „ r ^ . , Gold ~ L. . ,, ^ i- ^ i^ Transactions in gold a re n ot subject to regulation. „ ., , °, , ,, , '. L y ,. MALI (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are officially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currencies concerned. The banks levy a commission on transfers to or from nonmember countries of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign ex- change transfers are subject to a stamp tax. Forward exchange rate cover is authorized only for import payments to be effected through docu- mentary credits, and cover for other means of im- port payments requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Commerce. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or guaran- teed exchange rate for external debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to the repatriation of export proceeds, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Over- seas Departments and Territories) and Monaco, and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters, but certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. Operations under the bilateral payments agreements are handled by the Development Bank of Mali. Imports and exports are registered with the Directorate-General of Eco- nomic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. JThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and through accounts established under such agreements. Since Mali has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other member of the Operations Account Area. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usu- ally made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts The crediting to Nonresident Accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes is- sued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed directly to the BCEAO Agency in Bamako by foreign correspondents of the authorized banks; such notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs opened by these correspondents with an autho- rized bank in Mali. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited without prior authorization with BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermedi- aries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments The revised trade regulations introduced in 1986 established three categories of import: (1) imports admitted freely and requiring only an import certifi- cate (Regime A); (2) imports subject to quotas and requiring an import license (Regime B); and (3) im- ports subject to special prohibitions for reasons of security, public health, etc. (Regime C). Imports originating in a member country of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) were subject to Re- gime A; some products from EC (European Com- munity) countries, such as foodstuffs and other basic necessities, were also included in Regime A. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 309 Other products from the EC countries, such as lux- ury consumer goods and products that compete with local production, were subject to quotas under Regime B, as were all commodities from all other countries. Imports financed directly from foreign resources, for example, grants, foreign investment, or development loans, were admitted virtually freely under Regime A. Effective June 15, 1989, all import-licensing re- quirements and quotas were abolished. All imports, except those from Israel and South Africa, which are prohibited, are required only to be registered, and permits are issued automatically. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an annual ex- change allocation equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a per- son (CFAF 125,000 for children under 10 years), which may be used on several occasions during the year; any unused foreign exchange must be sur- rendered to an authorized intermediary within eight days of the traveler's return to Mali. For busi- ness travel, the allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 250,000 a trip.2 Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equivalent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out CFAF 50,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equivalent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, and any payment instruments drawn up abroad in their name. 2Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Remittances for family maintenance and medical treatment, and transfers of profits/dividends from foreign direct investment may be made freely by authorized inter- mediaries upon presentation of appropriate docu- mentation. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, must be repatriated and surren- dered within 30 days of the payment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. All exports require only a certificate or registration. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all in- come earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions; capital transfers to all other countries require authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Commerce and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, although the De- velopment Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 MALI and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Under the Investment Code of January 24, 1986, the Government may grant special privileged sta- tus, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferen- tial treatment to foreign investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require autho- rization by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, including bank domiciliation, customs declara- tion, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coins and ingots, up Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira, the external value of which is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket consisting of the pound sterling, the U.S. dollar, and the Euro- pean Currency Unit (ECU). The weights accorded to the currency components reflect the relative im- portance of Malta's major trading partners in Malta's current account transactions.1 The Central Bank of Malta computes the daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of the other currency compo- nents of the basket. The latest available market quotations used are normally the closing rates in the principal Asian financial centers as reported by Reuters. In dealings with the commercial banks, a spread of 0.125 percent is applied on the middle rate to compute the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and for the various other currencies quoted by the Central Bank. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates for the Maltese lira in terms of the U.S. dollar in such dealings were US$3.3303 and US$3.3219, respectively, per Lm 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies, including the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling was £ stg. 1.7351 per Lm 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on the latest market rates as reported by Reuters. These rates are treated as provisional and are quoted on request. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks are obliged to cover with the Central Bank any forward contracts entered into with their customers in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. Any forward con- tract concluded between a bank and a customer must be accompanied by a similar contract between the bank and the Central Bank. The forward facili- 1For the purpose of deriving the currency weights, capital flows of the banking system are excluded from current account transactions. ties offered by the Central Bank to the commercial banks are intended to provide cover for firm con- tractual commitments for current transactions— that is, payments and receipts pertaining to mer- chandise trade and other invisible transactions. Capital transactions are excluded. The Central Bank assumes all the exchange risk entailed in its forward contracts with the commercial banks. The Central Bank also provides forward cover directly to govern- ment departments and various parastatal bodies in respect of imports. The Central Bank of Malta tem- porarily offers a guaranteed exchange rate for the pound sterling to tour operators from the United Kingdom. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malta, as agent for the Minis- ter of Finance, administers exchange controls; the Director of Trade in the Ministry for Development of Tertiary Sector administers trade controls. The ap- proval authority for the allocation of foreign ex- change for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks, which may also give or renew guarantees and indemnities for any purpose, for the account of both residents and nonresidents. In the latter case, the authorized banks must hold full cash cover in external Maltese liri or foreign cur- rency or foreign securities for the duration of the guarantee. Authority to approve foreign exchange payments solely for travel purposes has also been delegated to a limited number of foreign exchange bureaus. The Central Bank is responsible for issuing licenses to operators of such agencies. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an External Ac- count or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Maltese liri held in an External Account or in any foreign currency. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are maintained with a number of countries.3 Outstand- 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. 3 As of December 31, 1990, Malta maintained bilateral pay- ments agreements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Poland. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 MALTA ing balances under these agreements are settled in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident ac- counts in Maltese liri, designated External Ac- counts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments to nonresidents, with trans- fers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency (including bank notes). External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for trans- fers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including bank notes). Authorized dealers may freely open and main- tain Foreign Currency Accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with trans- fers from another foreign currency account belong- ing to a nonresident, and with interest payable on Foreign Currency Accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts, and for transfers abroad. Subject to exchange control permission, companies controlled by nonresidents or residents may maintain Foreign Currency Ac- counts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports into Malta are classified into two categories—those that do not require a license and those that require a license. For the former, an Open General License (OGL) is applied. For the latter, licenses are required basically for those items that need clearance for health, safety, security, and en- vironmental reasons as well as for particularly sen- sitive items, such as wheat, flour, cakes and pas- tries, gold and silver filigree, furniture, and lace. Protective import restrictions have either been re- moved or replaced by import levies. Imports of tinned milk, sugar, salt, edible oil, certain types of meat, barley, maize, and cement are still subject to state trading. It is expected, however, that trading in some of these items will be liberalized during 1991. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form and the related import license, where applicable, are submitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and subject to exchange control approval, residents may keep Foreign Currency Ac- counts to settle import payments; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities, but approval au- thority for most types of payment has been dele- gated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. In any calendar year, each person is entitled to an annual travel allowance of Lm 1,000. In the case of trips of five days or less (including persons traveling abroad and returning within the same day), the allowance is set at a maximum of Lm 50 a day. In the case of trips of six days or more, the allowance cannot exceed Lm 600 a trip. Persons who do not use any of their travel allowance during a calendar year are allowed to transfer Lm 300 to the following year, and this amount can be used only if the trav- eler avails himself of this amount in addition to the full allowance of Lm 600 (i. e., a maximum of Lm 900) during the first trip of the year and if the trip is at least six days in duration. On returning to Malta, travelers must surrender any unused portion of the travel allowance, including the special extra al- lowance of Lm 300. Business travelers are allowed an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to Lm 100 a person a day, subject to a limit of Lm 2,000 a trip. Frequent business travelers may obtain a blanket six-month authorization with actual expenses reconciled every six months or upon exhaustion of the funds authorized. Expenses defrayed in advance in Malta or by credit cards in connection with overseas trips (mainly hotel accom- modation and travel) are not counted as part of the foreign exchange allowance. Requests beyond the specified limits require the exceptional considera- tion of the Central Bank. The allowance for educa- tional expenses abroad is the equivalent of Lm 5,000 a person for an academic year.4 The Central Bank approves applications for allowances in excess of these amounts if it is satisfied that no illicit capital outflow is involved. Nonresident travelers may im- port any amount of foreign currency and may ex- port foreign currency up to the amount they brought in and declared to customs on entry. Following the enactment of the Expenditure Levy Act 1990, all services connected with overseas travel, excluding the price of air/sea tickets sold in 4For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta and have either lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 313 Malta, are subject to a 10 percent tax. The tax is charged on the local value of funds to be exchanged into foreign currency for use overseas. Travel ser- vices provided for purposes of medical treatment, education, sport, emigration, and commercial trucking (for the importation and exportation of goods) are exempt from the tax upon application to the Central Bank. Travel services provided to gov- ernment departments are also exempt from the tax. Although the tax also covers cash gifts to overseas beneficiaries, they are exempted from the tax upon application to the Central Bank if they are made for specific philanthropic purposes. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires central bank permission, which is normally given, after compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Maltese currency may be contracted only with insurance companies that are duly li- censed as required under the Insurance Business Act, 1981. Remittances for the maintenance of de- pendents abroad are allowed on application show- ing evidence of hardship. Up to Lm 25 in Maltese notes and coins may be exported by a traveler. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all commodities may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to the European Community countries, Norway, and Sweden are subject to license or certificate for administrative purposes. The proceeds of exports must be received within six months of shipment and must be surrendered within a reasonable period thereafter. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes, but, without the authorization of the Minister of Finance, importa- tion of any notes and coins that are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to Lm 50. Capital Applications for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank with due regard given to the purpose of the investment and the potential benefits accruing to the local economy. The remittance of liquidation proceeds from such investments also requires cen- tral bank approval, which is normally granted af ter compliance with certain formalities, such as the submission of documentary evidence of the original investment. Nonresident portfolio investment in Malta is also subject to central bank approval. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Non- residents) Act, 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,5 with the excep- tion of certain special cases related mainly to eco- nomic development. Applications for the acquisi- tion of property for use as a residence by individuals who do not already hold property in Malta are given favorable consideration. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta require prior central bank approval. All transfers abroad of a capital nature by resi- dents require central bank approval. Applications for direct investment overseas are considered on thfeir own merits. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is permitted with the permission of the Central Bank under certain conditions; the resident must be over 18 and must not invest more than Lm 1,000 a year. A tax of 10 percent is levied on such investments under the provisions of the Expendi- ture Levy Act 1990. The tax is also levied on trans- fers of investments from one resident to another. Certain transfers are, however, exempted from the tax upon application to the Central Bank; these in- clude the conversion of one type of investment to another by the same resident, the transfer of an investment from one direct member of a family to another, and the transfer of an investment as a result of death. The transfer of an investment be- tween a local bank and a resident, which is covered by a special permit issued by the Central Bank, is also exempt. Capital receipts repatriated by residents either have to be surrendered to an authorized bank for conversion into domestic currency or held in the form of an interest-earning foreign currency ac- count with an authorized bank. Residents must in- form the Central Bank of these transactions. Although applications by residents to purchase real estate abroad are not normally permitted, the Central Bank considers each case on its own merits. Residents are, however, allowed to switch financial investments, already held overseas with the per- mission of the Central Bank, into real estate assets situated outside Malta. 5For the purposes of this Act, the term nonresidents means (1) individuals who are not residents of Malta but excluding Maltese citizens living abroad or foreign spouses of citizens of Malta; and (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, (b) it has its principal place of residence or business outside Malta, (c) 25 per- cent or more of its shares or other capital is owned by a nonresi- dent person, or (d) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 MALTA Foreign nationals who reside in Malta and decide to take up residence elsewhere are normally allowed to transfer all of their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emigrate may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of Lm 15,000 a family; any excess amount is normally released over a period of three years in three equal installments after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 23 denominations of gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coins and to acquire jewelry, but they require the permission of the Central Bank to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. The importation of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for the importa- tion of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured and semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold and silver are restricted. Sub- ject to exchange control permission, authorized im- porters may import gold bullion only to supply jew- elers and other industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities also requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes During 1990 Payments for Invisibles July 16. A 10 percent tax was imposed on pay- ments for all travel services, excluding the price of air/sea tickets sold in Malta, under the provisions of the Expenditure Levy Act 1990. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The Export Stabilization Scheme, under which exporters received a subsidy on the basis of appreciations of the Maltese lira and the amount of local value added, was abolished. Capital July 16. Residents over 18 were allowed to invest in overseas financial assets up to a maximum amount of Lm 1,000 a person a year. A10 percent tax would be imposed on such investments under the provisions of the Expenditure Levy Act 1990. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 33, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is de- termined on the basis of a basket of currencies com- prising the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to these currencies are based on the currencies' rela- tive importance in Mauritania's total exchange transactions and are revised from time to time. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dollar on the Paris exchange market are used to determine the ouguiya's daily exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Daily exchange rates for 17 other currencies,1 including the currencies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange market. On De- cember 31, 1990, the midpoint exchange rate of the ouguiya in terms of the U.S. dollar was UM 77.84 = US$1. Commissions of 0.75 percent are applied to pur- chases and sales through commercial bank ac- counts, and commissions of 1.75 percent are ap- plied to purchases and sales involving traveler's checks and foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. A quarterly average exchange rate is applied for foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Admin- istration. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the power to conduct transactions through Convertible Ouguiya Accounts that have been approved by the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through au- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. thorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. All imports require exchange con- trol approval from the Central Bank. Special re- gimes apply to imports by government entities and state enterprises. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries usu- ally take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts: Convertible Ouguiya Accounts and Convertible Foreign Currency Accounts. Convertible Ouguiya Accounts may be credited only with transfers from other Convertible Quguiya Accounts, with 15 per- cent of the repatriated proceeds from fish exports through the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company, and with 25 percent of the repatriated proceeds from exports by qualifying enterprises. These ac- counts may be debited in foreign currency only for expenses relating to exporters' production ac- tivities. Convertible Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency and transfers from other Convert- ible Foreign Currency Accounts; they may be deb- ited for any payment without central bank ap- proval, but payments and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign bank notes without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer-exporter cards or holders of special au- thorizations from the Ministry of Commerce are permitted to engage in import transactions. Prepay- ment of the minimum turnover tax in the amount of UM 300,000 is necessary to obtain the card. Imports of all goods must receive foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank. The National Import-Export Corporation has a monopoly over imports of sugar, rice, and green tea. Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except for imports directly fi- nanced from abroad. After the foreign exchange transaction has been approved by the Central Bank, 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 MAURITANIA the importer is entitled to purchase the necessary foreign exchange but not earlier than ten days be- fore shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the goods have already arrived. Advance payments for im- ports require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of import bills quoting c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insur- ance and Reinsurance Company. There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries must be approved by the Central Bank. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under 10 years). For business travel, the allocations are the equivalent of UM 50,000 a person a trip to African countries, UM 90,000 to Europe, and UM 120,000 to other destinations; annual limits range from UM 100,000 to UM 800,000, depending on the applicant's business turnover. Bona fide re- quests for higher amounts for travel may be granted on a case-by-case basis. The use of all travel alloca- tions must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. Foreigners working in Mauritania may transfer savings from their salaries up to varying percentages, according to marital status. At the end of their stay in Mauritania, they may transfer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Ex- porters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. Exports to all countries require authorization and endorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be sur- rendered not later than the due date of the receipt, which normally must not be more than 60 days after the date of shipment. Exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and Mining Company, and a special exemption applies to the repatriation of its export proceeds. Exports of de- mersal fish are the monopoly of the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company. Certain enterprises are allowed to retain 25 percent of export proceeds on foreign exchange accounts maintained at domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered within four months of the due date of the payment. The importation of domestic bank notes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Is- rael and between Mauritania and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Maurita- nia and all foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, al- though the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in Mauritania2 and Mauritanian direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Cen- tral Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within 15 days from receipt of the declara- tion. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires a declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether Mauritanian investments abroad or for- eign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments im- plying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior au- thorization from the Central Bank, as does borrow- ing by residents from nonresidents. including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Mauritania. Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 317 The Investment Code of January 23, 1989 provides for various benefits for private invest- ments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and dividends accruing from such investment can be transferred freely. exports of gold require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Rupee, the external value of which is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies of Mauritius' major trading partners. Buying and selling rates for foreign currencies are quoted by the Bank of Mauritius (central bank) with asymmetrical margins, amounting to 0.125 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and 0.1875 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transac- tions in French francs, using rates obtained on the basis of the fixed peg to the basket of currencies. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Mauritius (telegraphic) were Mau Rs 27.292 and Mau Rs 27.3947, respectively, per £ stg. 1; Mau Rs 14.3040 and Mau Rs 14.3578, respectively, per US$1; and Mau Rs 2.7827 and Mau Rs 2.7950, respectively, per F 1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars at rates based on those quoted by the Bank of Mauritius for these currencies. Spreads allowed be- tween buying and selling rates of the commercial banks for transactions by telegraphic transfers are up to 1 percent for transactions in pounds sterling, 1.25 percent for U.S. dollars, 1.6 percent for French francs, 2.25 percent for Japanese yen and Swiss francs, and 2.375 percent for deutsche mark. Com- mercial banks' buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market and the cost of forward cover in appropriate cases. A transfer tax of 15 percent is applied to autho- rized outward transfers of capital (other than bank- ing funds and repatriation of approved foreign in- vestments), and a stamp duty of 15 percent applies, under certain conditions, to purchases of gold coins and gold bullion. Forward exchange facilities in pounds sterling, French francs, and U.S. dollars are made available by the Bank of Mauritius for industries operating in the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for onlending to the sugar sector. The maximum period for forward cover is six months; the forward rates are based on a aThe exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign currencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. uniform margin of 3 percent a year. In addition, companies operating in the EPZ and other Mauri- tian exporters and traders dealing in priority im- ports are authorized to engage in forward cover transactions in foreign exchange markets abroad through their banks in Mauritius. Companies oper- ating in the EPZ and the service zone and certain other companies are authorized to maintain with local commercial banks accounts denominated in foreign currencies. They may retain the foreign cur- rency proceeds from exports in foreign currency accounts for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for their imports. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Fi- nancial Secretary. Commercial banks, as agents of the Bank of Mauritius, are authorized to approve and effect payments for current transactions. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is responsible for issuing import and export permits, where required. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Mauri- tian rupees from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Similarly, payments from nonresidents may be received in Mauritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any con- vertible foreign currency. Mauritius maintains a bi- lateral payments agreement with Madagascar. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by residents and firms of other countries and may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers from other external ac- counts, and (3) the proceeds of sales to an autho- rized dealer of any convertible foreign currency by nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for (1) any payment to residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers to other external accounts, and (3) the cost of purchase of any convertible foreign currency or gold. The "Nonresident (External Account) Scheme/' reintroduced on September 25, 1985, is intended to provide Mauritians abroad with incen- tives to transfer their savings to Mauritius and to open accounts with commercial banks in Mauritius in rupees in the form of savings or fixed deposit 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 319 accounts and in designated foreign currencies in the form of term deposits with a minimum period of one year. Interest on such deposits is exempted from income tax. As long as they are abroad, holders of such accounts are free to transfer at any time, balances held therein, together with interest. The Bank of Mauritius bears any related exchange risk involved in maintaining accounts in designated foreign currencies. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius and realized from investments made by them before April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emi- grants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 500,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by resi- dents of Mauritius that have been specifically autho- rized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be in- vested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordinance. Under the Supplies (Control of Imports) Regulations of 1982, all imports other than goods exempted or prohibited, as specified in the third and fourth schedules, respectively, require import permits from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping; the permits are essentially for statistical and tax purposes. Commercial banks are authorized to ap- prove and transfer funds for import payments with- out limit. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges; a stamp duty of 17 percent based on the c .i .f. value is levied on most imports. Local commer- cial banks are discouraged from extending credit for imports of goods of lower priority. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are per- mitted without restriction. Foreign exchange for for- eign travel and gift remittances may be provided up to specified limits by the commercial banks without prior reference to the central bank. The basic per- sonal travel allowance is the foreign exchange equiv- alent of Mau Rs 100,000 a person for every two calendar years for travel to any country. The central bank applies these rules flexibly and approves bona fide applications for expenditures exceeding this amount. There are no limits for business travel. Residents may hold international credit cards and use them for paying travel expenses abroad. When a credit card is used, approved travel allowances may be exceeded, subject to the payment of a charge of 15 percent; the charge will be exempt, however, if the traveler provides documentary proof to the cen- tral bank that the expenses exceeding the approved limits represented bona fide travel expenses. A 10 percent tax, together with a surcharge of 10 per- cent thereon, is levied on all air tickets purchased by Mauritian residents for international travel. There are established limits for payments and transfers in respect of family support, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, gifts, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, professional and technical services, education, and leave salaries..Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be granted by the ex- change control authorities. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident trav- elers may take out any foreign currency they de- clared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are pro- hibited, unless permission is obtained from the Bank of Mauritius. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products val- ued at more than Mau Rs 50 require an export per- mit from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Ex- ports of certain foodstuffs, including fruits, are controlled. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. No tax is levied on sugar exports in respect of the first 3,000 tons; for exports exceeding 3,000 tons, a uniform tax of 18.75 percent is levied. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be repatriated within six months of shipment and offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Exports to Canada and the United States of knit shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers are effected under bilateral export restraint agreements. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 MAURITIUS authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain re- strictions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may, subject to permission, transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country on payment of a 15 percent transfer tax. Nonresidents also require permission to transfer capital to any country; such transfers are subject to a 15 percent transfer tax. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for re- patriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin. Proceeds from the sale, liquida- tion, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatri- ated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. How- ever, permission for repatriation of capital is normally given for capital brought in on or a f ter April 5, 1966. Repatriation of capital by foreign in- vestors is tax free up to the amount of original in- vestment. All capital gains are blocked. The blocked funds may, however, be released either for transfer abroad against payment of the 15 percent stamp duty, or for investment in Mauritius without pay- ment of the stamp duty. Legislation permitting the establishment of o f f- shore banking facilities came into force on Jan- uary 1, 1989. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 500,000 a family from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited to a Blocked Ac- count; any releases that may be approved for trans- fer abroad are subject to payment of the 15 percent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. However, they are entitled to foreign exchange allowances of up to the equivalent of £ stg. 200 a person to cover incidental expenses to be incurred in connection with travel to their new country of residence. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (gold bullion coins of Mau Rs 100, Mau Rs 250, Mau Rs 500, and Mau Rs 1,000, and such commem- orative gold coins as Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as personal jewelry and ornaments. The importa- tion and exportation of monetary gold are pro- hibited, except when made by the monetary au- thorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a specific import permit. Exports of arti- cles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 15 percent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments April 17. A ban was imposed on imports of certain automobile parts. Payments for Invisibles July 1. The personal travel allowance for every two years was raised from the equivalent of £ stg. 2,000 to the foreign exchange equivalent of Mau Rs 100,000, and the limit on the basic business travel allowance, previously £ stg. 200 a day, was eliminated. Prior approval by the Bank of Mauritius was no longer required with respect to transfers by com- mercial banks of funds for educational purposes. The limit on the remittance abroad of cash gifts was raised to Mau Rs 5,000 a person a year from Mau Rs 1,000. Capital July 1. The limit on remittances by emigrants was increased to Mau Rs 500,000 a family from Mau Rs 200,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso. There are two exchange markets: the controlled market and the free market. In principle, the ex- change rate in the controlled market is adjusted daily on the basis, inter alia, of the following factors: (1) the demand and supply of foreign exchange in the controlled market; (2) the objective regarding an adequate level of international reserves; (3) the movement of domestic and foreign prices; and (4) movements in other exchange rate relation- ships.1 Transactions at the controlled market rate include (1) merchandise export receipts (with some exceptions); (2) payments by in-bond industries for wages, salaries, leasings or rents, fiscal obligations, expenses relating to insurance, and the purchase of Mexican goods and services, other than fixed as- sets; (3) royalties for the use of foreign technologies and patents; (4) payments of principal, interest, and related expenses resulting from financial and suppliers' credits by the public and private sectors; (5) payments for imports with some exceptions; (6) expenses in relation to the Mexican foreign ser- vice and contributions regarding Mexico's member- ship in international organizations; and (7) other transactions specifically authorized by the Secre- tariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP). Eligible participants in the controlled market may choose to complete the transaction at a retail rate, agreed between participants and the banks, or at the "equilibrium exchange rate," which is deter- mined for the controlled market each day at a fixing session (in the Bank of Mexico), in which represen- tatives of the major banks exchange bids for pur- chases and sales of foreign exchange; the Bank of Mexico may also submit bids in these sessions. On December 31, 1990, the equilibrium exchange rate in the controlled market for the U.S. dollar was Mex$2,945.40 per US$1, and the buying and selling rates in the same market were Mex$2,929.40 and Mex$2,949.40 per US$1, respectively. Within the free market, no limitations apply to the access to ownership or to the transfer of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the free market were Mex$2,924.40 and Mex$2,959.40 per US$1, respectively. 1 Since November 12,1990, the peso has been depreciated daily against the U.S. dollar by Mex$0.40. The Bank of Mexico provides, through the Trust Fund for the Coverage of Foreign Exchange Risk (FICORCA), an instrument for forward cover of for- eign exchange for the repayment of certain foreign debt obligations in respect of debt contracted or rescheduled on a long-term basis with foreign fi- nancial entities and suppliers. On January 5, 1987, the Bank of Mexico began to operate a short-term foreign exchange risk-coverage market through which commercial and financial operations are cov- ered against exchange rate fluctuations. On Novem- ber 27, 1990, this foreign exchange coverage was extended for transactions up to one year. The scheme applies only to the U.S. dollar, and the coverage is based on the equilibrium exchange rate prevailing on the date of contract. All Mexican credit institutions are authorized to operate in the free market either directly or through their exchange houses. Mexican banks are pro- hibited from receiving domestic currency deposits from foreign financial institutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except when such funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to a Mexican bank for the purpose of a borrow- ing operation, or when authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Directorate of International Operations in the Bank of Mexico. Financial institutions located in the areas bordering the United States are permit- ted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars for Mexican residents. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by SHCP and the Bank of Mexico. The exchange control system is administered by the Bank of Mexico through Mexican credit institutions, which carry out most of the transactions in the controlled market. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Mexico notified the Fund, on December 20, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 MEXICO Prescription of Currency Apart from the exceptions described below, there are no obligations prescribing the method or cur- rency of payments to nonresidents, either in the free or in the controlled market, but obligations de- riving from the sale of foreign exchange in the con- trolled market must be made in the currencies ap- proved by the Bank of Mexico. In accordance with the payments agreements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, controlled market payments to these countries must be made through accounts maintained with each other at the Bank of Mexico and at the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LAIA). Similar ar- rangements exist with Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Malaysia, Nicaragua, and Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SECOFI) are required for 210 of the 11,823 items in Mexico's general import tariff, except in the case of temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export indus- tries. For the items subject to licensing, applications for import licenses may cover the applicant's import needs for nine months on average, and can be ex- tended for an additional three months. Import needs are estimated at 20 percent above previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70 percent of earlier li- censes have been effectively used. For some com- modities, "open-end" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an over- all limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. Since July 1, 1988, the im- port tariff structure has been based on the harmo- nized product description and coding system of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Imports from member states of the LAIA and other Latin American countries are subject to preferential tariffs. A free trade zone regime is granted for cer- tain regions in the country until June 30, 1991, and until August 31, 1995 for the newly established bordering zone with Guatemala. This regime allows imports into these regions without customs tariffs as long as the imported goods are not similar to those produced domestically in the same regions. In the controlled market, importers may acquire foreign exchange for the full value of merchandise already imported and for which payment has not yet been made. Importers must register a commit- ment of use (or devolution) of foreign exchange (CUDD) to obtain foreign currency for advance pay- ments; they have a period of 180 days to show evi- dence of use of the foreign exchange for payment of imports and associated expenses or to return the foreign exchange if no adequate substantiation of its use is provided. Full advance payment for all im- ports is allowed if the value of goods does not ex- ceed US$10,000, or if payment is made through letters of credit; in the latter case, there is a 60-day period in which to show evidence of use of foreign exchange. For imports exceeding US$10,000 in value, only 20 percent advance payment is permit- ted. Advance payment for associated expenses is permitted up to maximum authorized percentages (6 percent f .o .b. value for North American imports, and 8 percent f .o .b. value for other regions). Confir- mation by suppliers is required for individual trans- actions exceeding US$10,000. Exporters are allowed to retain foreign exchange proceeds up to 100 per- cent of their requirements for advance payments of imported inputs. These facilities are also extended to the imported inputs, already within the country, of their domestic suppliers. Payments for Invisibles Except for the items specified below, payments for invisibles are made through the free exchange market. The payments made through the controlled exchange market consist of (1) principal and inter- est payments on public and private sector debt with foreign financial entities, foreign suppliers, and Mexican banks; (2) fees related to credits from for- eign financial entities, up to 3/4 of 1 percent of the total amount of each credit; (3) expenses of the Mexican foreign service, contributions, and allot- ments for Mexico's membership in international or- ganizations; (4) expenses related to foreign trade; (5) royalties and obligations deriving from juridical acts in force as of June 1,1984 and recorded with the National Registry of Technological Transfer, with payments to be made through authorized Mexican banks; and (6) expenses on account of scholarships granted by the National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT) and those approved by CONACYT or the Bank of Mexico for studies in for- eign countries. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mex- ico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are on the account of persons in Mexico, or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 323 may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexi- can companies, except when Mexican firms deem it convenient not to execute such transactions, in which case the prior authorization of SHCP is re- quired. The provisions are not applicable to reinsurance. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exportation of a few specified items is prohibited. All merchan- dise export receipts in excess of US$5,000 a week are subject to surrender requirements in the controlled market, within a standard period of 90 days. Hand- icraft exports of up to US$8,000 an operation are exempt from the surrender requirement.2 Special procedures apply for the surrender of export pro- ceeds beyond the standard limit of 90 days. Begin- ning September 5,1986, if a sale of foreign exchange occurs beyond the required period without authori- zation, the applicable exchange rate is only a certain percentage of the rate of the selling day, which varies according to the delay in surrendering the foreign exchange. Exporters of jewelry and precious metals must surrender their proceeds through spe- cifically authorized credit institutions. Exporting enterprises are authorized to open in Mexican banks special accounts denominated in Mexican pesos; but only proceeds from exports can be deposited in such accounts. Interest payable on these deposits is equivalent to the rate of deprecia- tion of the controlled exchange rate against the U.S. dollar, plus the corresponding Eurodollar de- posit rates. Mexican banks are also authorized to accept deposits in U.S. dollars by Mexican firms and to grant loans in foreign currency for the produc- tion, shipment, storage, and long-term financing of exports. Such deposits can be constituted only in U.S. dollars and do not earn an interest rate higher than LIBOR plus 1 percent. Individual deposit ac- counts under this scheme must be for a minimum of US$5,000, with the exception of deposits made by enterprises in the free trade zones and border areas. Payments are made abroad in foreign currency. Under the Program for Integral Promotion of Ex- ports (PROFIEX), a drawback system of import duty payments by exporters and their domestic suppliers is in operation. Exporters are eligible to purchase imported in- puts at the controlled market rate, as are impor- 2Effective February 4, 1991, the limit over which export pro- ceeds are required to be surrendered at the controlled market rate was increased to US$50,000 a week. As a result of this change, 65 percent of all export transactions (equivalent to some 9 percent of the total value of non-oil exports) are free from the surrender requirement at the controlled exchange market rate. ters. In addition, they may use their export proceeds to pay for imports, associated expenses, and re- corded financial debt and suppliers' credits. Under an understanding on export subsidies and countervailing duties concluded between Mexico and the United States on April 23,1985, Mexico has been granted, until 1991, the benefit of the injury test in countervailing duty investigations, in return for which it has undertaken to phase out export subsidies. Proceeds from Invisibles In-bond industries are required to sell foreign exchange through the controlled market for the equivalent in Mexican pesos of the payment they make for items specified in the Exchange Control Decree, including payment of wages, salaries, leas- ings or rents, the purchase of Mexican goods and services other than fixed assets, local and federal taxes, insurance premiums, interest and other ac- cessory payments pertaining to financing payable in Mexican pesos, as well as any other operational expenditure within Mexico. This regime does not apply to foreign exchange earmarked for payment of credits granted to third parties by foreign finan- cial institutions for the construction of buildings, or industrial parks whose use or enjoyment has been granted to such in-bond industries, provided that it has been agreed that the amount of the benefits from such use or possession be applied to liquidat- ing the aforementioned credits. In-bond industries must sell their foreign ex- change no later than the last business day of the month in which such expenditures are made. In addition, they must present to the Bank of Mexico, and to SECOFI within the first 15 business days of each month, information as to the dates and amounts of foreign exchange sold to the country's credit institutions during the month immediately preceding, as well as the amounts of Mexican pesos they disbursed to pay each of the specified items. In-bond industries must effect these foreign ex- change transactions through Mexican credit institutions. Capital Foreign investment, including the transfer of funds relating to increment of capital stock as well as payment of dividends, is excluded from the coverage of the controlled foreign exchange market. Accordingly, such activities are effected through the free market and are not subject to any restrictions, having only to conform to the norms contained in the applicable laws and regulations. Loan proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 MEXICO repayable abroad in foreign currency and obtained from foreign financial institutions or Mexican credit institutions are channeled through the controlled exchange market, except when said proceeds are used for the servicing of specified long-term exter- nal debt or for import payments. The Federal Gov- ernment has ownership and control over certain strategic areas, such as petroleum, basic pe- trochemical production, radioactive minerals, elec- trical and nuclear energy, specified mining ac- tivities, railroads, mail and banking services,3 and other activities so stated by Mexican law. In addi- tion, foreign investment is forbidden in the follow- ing activities: insurance and surety bond com- panies, investment funds, stockbroker firms, money exchange establishments, radio and televi- sion, the public transportation system, and forestry, as well as any other areas specified as such by the Federal Government. Restrictions on foreign capital participation in new direct foreign investments were liberalized substantially in May 1989. Foreign investors may hold a majority share in new firms (in sectors other than those restricted to the State and national com- panies) as long as the following conditions are met: (1) new investments do not exceed a maximum amount set periodically by the National Foreign In- vestment Commission (CNIE); (2) the financing for new projects is obtained outside the country (in the case of foreign companies established in Mexico, the capital requirement may be financed from their own resources); (3) new investments are located outside the areas of greatest industrial concentra- tion; (4) the accumulated foreign exchange flows generated by new investments balance over the first three years of operation; (5) investments create per- manent employment and establish adequate train- ing programs; and (6) investments use appropriate technology and observe legal provisions regarding ecological standards. Foreign investors are autho- rized to hold a 100 percent share in new or existing in-bond enterprises producing for export markets. Foreign investments are permitted in the Mexican stock market through specially designed trust funds, but participation is not allowed in the admin- istration of the companies involved. Direct foreign investments in Mexico must be recorded with the CNIE, and applications by foreign individuals or enterprises to acquire more than 49 percent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior au- thorization of the CNIE. Investment proposals to 3On May 2,1990, the President submitted a bill to Congress to permit the privatization of commercial banks. Congress ap- proved this measure at the end of June 1990. which the CNIE has not responded within a period of 45 days after application is submitted are consid- ered to have been approved. The rules favoring the trust funds that enable foreign investors to participate in tourist projects have been simplified. Gold Goldsmiths or manufacturers may acquire non- monetary gold through authorized Mexican credit institutions at the controlled exchange rate for the elaboration of products earmarked for export. There is a value-added tax of 15 percent on sales of non- monetary gold. Purchases and sales of monetary gold by Mexican credit institutions are exempt from the tax. Monetary gold exports are exempted from foreign exchange surrender requirements, up to a maximum of 200 grams. Gold may be freely bought or sold in Mexico at the free market exchange rate. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement May 28. The rules governing the establishment of the exchange rate of the peso were modified, whereby the rate would be depreciated daily against the U.S. dollar by the preannounced amount of Mex$0.80. November 12. The rules governing the establish- ment of the exchange rate of the peso were modi- fied, whereby the rate would be depreciated daily against the U.S. dollar by the preannounced amount of Mex$0.40. Imports and Import Payments January 1. A temporary licensing requirement was imposed on imports of 7 items until March 15, 1990; another 171 items (mainly used or overhauled machines, and industrial and transport equipment) were subject to the same requirement until Octo- ber 31, 1990. A temporary licensing requirement was imposed on imports of 235 items (excluding the free trade zones within the country) until Octo- ber 31, 1990. ' January 31. The commodity classification for customs tariff purposes was changed with respect to 98 items (mainly chemical products, machinery for the textile industry, and domestic goods). Of these, 57 items were subject to the tariff rate of 10 percent, 6 items to the rate of 15 percent, 18 items to the rate of 20 percent, and 1 item to the rate of zero percent. Imports of 1 item were prohibited, and 15 items were deleted. March 16. The licensing period for 7 items of com- puter equipment was extended for a 15-day period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 325 April 3. Fiscal incentives for the improvement and development of the computer industry were an- nounced, including the abolishment of the general import tax on components used in the production for exports. April 20. The import license requirement for 5 items (including white paper) was abolished, and was replaced by a tariff at the rate of 15 percent. May 17. Changes to the tariff rates on 49 items, mainly seeds and plants, were announced: of these, 42 items were exempted from tariffs; 1 item was subject to a tariff rate of 15 percent; 4 items were subject to a tariff rate of 10 percent; and 2 items were eliminated. July 16. Changes to the tariff rates on 65 items, mainly staple products, seeds, fruits, and flour, were announced: of these, 21 items were subject to the tariff rate of 20 percent; 15 items, to the rate of 15 percent; 20 items, to the rate of 10 percent; 7 items, to the rate of 5 percent; and 2 items were deleted. On the same date, a second modification changed the composition of 14 additional items, mainly seeds and fruits. July 17. The import-licensing requirements for 23 items (including oil seeds, and animal fats and oils) were abolished. August 2. Sugar was subject to a tariff of 15 per- cent. August 13-14. SECOFI announced additional tariff preferences for some products from Latin America. October 26. The commodity classification for customs ta r i ff purposes was changed for 8 items (mainly rice and fish): of these, 3 items were sub- ject to the tar iff rate of 20 percent; 1 item was subject to the rate of 10 percent; 3 items were exempted; and 1 item was deleted. October 31. The temporary licensing require- ment imposed on 235 items on Janua ry 1, 1990, was extended; 5 items were added, and 28 were excluded. October 31. SECOFI published a list of specifica- tions for motor vehicles to be imported only in the northern border region during 1991. November 14. SECOFI announced that, during the period from February 1 to September 30, 1991, sorghum imports would be exempted from tariff, while imports from October 1, 1991 to January 31, 1992 would be subject to an ad-valorem rate of 10 percent. November 14. A tariff rate of 20 percent on imports of oceangoing vessels of more than 35 meters of deck was announced. November 18. SECOFI announced additional tariff preferences for 288 items imported from Latin America. November 18. Additional tariff preferences were announced for imports from Bolivia, Cuba, and Paraguay. November 30. For the period of December 1, 1990 to January 31, 1991, the licensing require- ment for fresh eggs was suspended, and the tariff rate was reduced to zero. December 20. The commodity classification of 6 items for customs tariff purposes was changed. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. A temporary licensing requirement was imposed on exports of 375 items until Octo- ber 31, 1990. March 9. The export duties on coffee were abolished. May 3. Measures to promote non-oil exports were announced. These measures included facilities for temporary imports, simplified fiscal and admin- istrative procedures, and financial support. May 17. The export duty on barbasco seeds was eliminated. June 28. Mexico signed an agreement with the Latin American Integration Association, which aimed at improving tariff preferences on a recipro- cal basis. October 29. The export license requirement for 5 items (including rice, barbasco seeds and fertilizers) was abolished. October 31. The temporary licensing requirement imposed on 375 items since January 1, 1990 was extended; 5 items were excluded. December 18. The facility called "Certificate of the Right to Import Merchandise for Export," under which exporters with at least 30 percent value added were allowed to import without permit or license requirement up to 30 percent of the value of their exports, was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 32, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dir- ham. Bank Al-Maghrib fixes buying and selling rates for the French franc daily on the basis of varia- tions in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's for- eign trade and the pattern of currencies of settle- ment. Buying and selling rates for most other cur- rencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On De- cember 31, 1990, the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 1.57698 buying and DH 1.58172 sell- ing, per F1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was DH 8.0213 buying and DH 8.0644 selling, per US$1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in Bank Al-Maghrib, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency sepa- rately. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to Bank Al-Maghrib the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by Bank Al-Maghrib. Compensation between banks is not permitted, so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. Bank Al-Maghrib also establishes buying and sell- ing rates for transactions with travelers in bank notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit de- nominated in "convertible currencies" (the curren- cies listed in footnote 1, including the French franc but excluding the Mauritanian ouguiya and the Tunisian dinar) and specified other currencies;2 the authorized banks sell to Bank Al-Maghrib their ex- cess holdings of bank notes and replenish them at the Bank when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was es- tablished by the authorities effective June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as well as imports Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U. A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Unit (ECU). 2CFA francs and Gibraltar pounds. of items benefiting from special customs arrange- ments. Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of foreign exchange that have been concluded be- tween banks and their customers result in reverse contracts between the banks and Bank Al-Maghrib. They may be concluded in any foreign currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib for maturity periods ranging from a minimum of 1 month to a maximum of 12 months; the guaranteed exchange rate corre- sponds to the spot exchange rate, against the pay- ment of a commission of 2 percent a year, of which a share amounting to 0.25 percent is retained by the authorized banks; provisions are made for extend- ing contract terms, revising contracts in part, or canceling them in whole or in part. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ex- change Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Import com- mitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the commercial contract is stipulated in c .i .f ., except for contracts for goods shipped by air or parcel post or if the commercial contract provides for phased settlements including interest or charges. Imports that do not involve pay- ment do not require the visa of the Exchange Office. A part of the Port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in convertible currencies negotiated by Bank Al-Maghrib or through foreign accounts in convertible dirhams and foreign cur- rency accounts.3 Settlements with Mauritania and Tunisia are made through accounts denominated in convertible dirhams or convertible Mauritanian ouguiyas and convertible Tunisian dinars, respec- tively. Imports originating in countries in the con- vertible currency area may be paid for only in con- vertible currencies negotiated by Bank Al-Maghrib. Other settlements with countries in the area of con- inoperative bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Guinea and Mali. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 327 vertibility may be made only in convertible curren- cies negotiated by Bank Al-Maghrib or through For- eign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows. 1. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by physical or juridical foreign nationals, either resident or non- resident. These may be freely credited with book transfers from abroad, with foreign bank notes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, and with foreign currency drawn from Bank Al-Maghrib following general or special authorization by the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for book transfers abroad to the account holder or to a third party foreign national, for the surrender of foreign currency to Bank Al-Maghrib, or for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are re- served for physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality, who may be resident or nonresident. These accounts may be credited freely with autho- rized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility and with dirhams obtained from the sale to Bank Al-Maghrib of convertible currencies, including bank notes. They may be deb- ited freely for payments in Morocco and for pur- chases from Bank Al-Maghrib of convertible curren- cies. Foreign transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards with which to settle their bills in Mo- rocco and abroad. 3. Convertible Dirham Accounts may be opened and maintained by nonresident Moroccans. Deposits may be either at sight or at term, overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible cur- rencies, including bank notes, to Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) transfers authorized by . the Exchange Office; (3) payments of interest accrued on these accounts; (4) amounts from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams; and (5) amounts from term deposits in Convertible Dirham Accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) dirham payments in Mo- rocco; (3) transfers to Foreign Accounts in Convert- ible Dirhams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in Convertible Dirham Accounts. Provided that ap- propriate receipts are retained, the accounts may also be debited freely, either for the benefit of the account holder or other nonresidents, for the pur- chase of foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, or other foreign currency-denominated means of payment. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with funds that may not be transferred abroad. These include the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of foreign or Moroccan securities without retransfer guarantees and proceeds from the contractual or accelerated redemption of securities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange that lack retransfer guarantees. Transfers between Capital Accounts re- lated to countries in the area of convertibility or the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified government bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives during visits to Morocco, regardless of the number of beneficiaries or of jour- neys made by them to Morocco. However, at the request of the parties concerned, the Exchange Of- fice is prepared to grant higher limits, upon presen- tation of specific requests giving full details of the nature of the expenditure to be incurred in Morocco. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi- dent funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these ac- counts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Mo- rocco, to pay the costs of the stay in Morocco of the account holder, the spouse, or other immediate rela- tives; but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by Bank Al-Maghrib for the Central Bank of Tunisia and the Central Bank of Mauritania. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an an- nual General Import Program, which distinguishes two categories of imports (Lists A and B), and is applicable to imports from all countries. Goods on List A are freely importable. To import these items, the importer signs an import commitment (engage- ment d'importation), which does not require admin- istrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are pur- chased on a c.i.f. basis.4 Items on List B are subject to control either through licensing or state trading. 4Imports of goods on List A on c . i .f. terms require prior ex- change control approval, unless the goods are shipped by air or parcel post. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 MOROCCO To import these items, an import certificate (auto- risation d'importation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. In general, no formal quotas are estab- lished for goods on List B. Cereals, fertilizers, sugar, tea, and tobacco are imported exclusively by official agencies. For all imports, the import title—import certifi- cate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. Imports used for the production of export goods can be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter within the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan commercial banks are authorized to contract with their foreign correspondents. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis. The maximum tariff rate is set at 45 percent. In addition to regular customs tariffs, a fiscal levy of 12.5 percent ad valorem was introduced in Jan- uary 1988, consolidating the previous special im- port tax and stamp duty. Imports used as inputs in export production activities may be exempted from import duties and other import restrictions under the temporary admission scheme. Preferential customs tariff treatments are also granted to im- ports of capital goods by enterprises in the tourism and shipping sectors, as well as other industrial enterprises qualifying under the provisions of Mo- rocco's Industrial Investment Code. Imports of a relatively small number of items are subject to mini- mum import prices (references prices), which are intended to serve as antidumping or safeguard measures. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are allowed to transfer to nonresident foreign persons, without limit as to the amount or timing, the income generated by their investments in Morocco.5 Similar transactions are permitted for Moroccans living abroad, provided that the investments are made in foreign exchange or by debiting Convertible Dirham Accounts and that they are accompanied by a retransfer guaran- tee. The transfer of this type of income requires the authorization of the Exchange Office. The authorized banks are permitted to make pay- ments and settle expenses incidental to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or ex- 5The transfer of dividends of nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies not listed on the Casablanca Stock Ex- change requires the approval of the Exchange Office. port documents. Without authorization from the Exchange Office, Moroccan enterprises are permit- ted to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by nonresident foreigners while working for, or on be- half of, the Moroccan enterprise in Morocco. Some payments are subject to limitations. A for- eign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Of- fice, 50 percent of his monthly wages or salary if the spouse does not reside in Morocco, or 30 percent if the employee's family lives in Morocco; teachers attached to the Ministry of National Education are allowed an additional transfer of 35 percent for 30 days' leave taken abroad, 70 percent for 60 days' leave, and 105 percent for 70 days' leave. For the medical or paramedical professions, the assessment of transferable amounts (30 percent or 50 percent, according to whether the spouse lives in Morocco) is based on taxable wages/salaries minus applicable duties and taxes. The same applies to other liberal professions as well as to persons engaged in indus- try, trade, agriculture, and crafts. For retired per- sons the calculation of the transferable amount (30 percent or 50 percent) is based on gross pensions. Moroccan residents as well as residents of foreign nationality who do not periodically transfer funds abroad and who wish to travel abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allocation equivalent to DH 1,000 a person a year. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign nationality who wish to travel abroad may be granted foreign ex- change equivalent to all of their savings from in- come. Foreign exchange allocation up to the equiv- alent of DH 2,000 a month is granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher education for a child studying abroad. For business travel a standard allowance equiv- alent to DH 1,500 a day is granted, up to DH 15,000 a person a trip and within an annual ceiling fixed individually by the Exchange Office; exporters and professional members of the tourist industry may obtain foreign exchange allocations of 3 percent of their turnover with no limit on the amount per trip. These allocations may be deposited in an exporter's Account in Convertible Dirhams. The allocation is- sued for business travel may be added to the alloca- tion issued for tourist travel. Moroccan students pursuing higher studies at the first, second, or third level abroad and who do not hold scholarships may obtain monthly allocations of foreign exchange up to the maximum equivalent of DH 4,000. Students holding scholarships are eligible for a supplemen- tary montlily allocation equivalent to DH 2,500. Stu- dents are entitled to an annual installation al- lowance equivalent to DH 5,000. The export of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 329 Moroccan bank notes is prohibited. Visitors to Mo- rocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange against presentation of the exchange certificate(s) for an amount equal to up to the amount remaining from the original conversion of foreign exchange to dirhams. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the first time or returning to their workplace abroad may be granted DH 5,000 in foreign bank notes upon presentation of an employment contract. Transfers related to remittances for family main- tenance and allowances for medical treatment are granted upon presentation of documentary evi- dence. Imports and exports of Moroccan bank notes are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items, such as sub- sidized food products. Fruits, fresh vegetables, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported either directly by the producers or through a state- trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation), which is also in charge of wine exports. There is a state monopoly over the export of phosphates and phos- phate products. Mineral products are subject to an ad valorem export tax amounting to 5 percent for hydrocarbons and phosphates and 0.5 percent for all other minerals. A 1 percent quality control tax is applied to exports of foodstuffs. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatri- ate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The surrender to the exporter's bank must take place within one month of the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the matu- rity date fixed in the commercial contract; in princi- ple, this date must not be set more than 90 days af ter the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in foreign exchange from abroad, foreign exchange is not automatically surrendered to Bank Al-Maghrib if it represents the proceeds of mobilization of foreign exchange claims arising out of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accru- ing from all their noncommercial claims and sur- render them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions. Moroc- cans working abroad must surrender such curren- cies within one month of re-entry, but are permit- ted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 percent of the amount surrendered, up to a maximum of DH 5,000. The importation of Moroccan bank notes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers also may bring in for- eign bank notes in any amount, but these must be surrendered within 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obligated to de- clare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250 and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The trans- fer of capital abroad by residents must be ap- proved.6 Remittance of the assets of emigrants and transfers in the form of gifts are not normally ap- proved, nor is investment by private individuals in foreign securities or real estate. Permissible trans- fers of assets by resident foreigners on final depar- ture are fixed at DH 25,000 for each year of stay, with no upper limit on the amount. A new industrial investment code, which came into force in February 1983, provides for full foreign ownership of Moroccan companies in certain sec- tors and an easing of repatriation of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incentives for foreign invest- ment. In addition, an investment code introduced for the tourist sector in August 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and foreign investors in most areas of the tourist sector; it also provides for full repatriation of tourist-related profits af ter tax, without any restraint on timing. Operations through Capital Accounts that may be effected with approval include: (1) purchases on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securities; (2) purchases of Moroc- can securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or participation in a Moroccan firm; (3) subscriptions to (2); (4) investments of any kind, including purchases of businesses or office buildings; (5) lending to residents; (6) any pay- ments to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative; (7) any payments from an account held by a foreign juridical person; (8) gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; (9) subscriptions to capital increases of Moroccan 6Operations involving the conveyance of real property located in Morocco and belonging to foreign persons are not subject to authorization by the Exchange Office. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 330 MOROCCO companies whose shares are quoted on the Cas- ablanca Stock Exchange; (10) subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term, fixed-yield securities issued by a Moroccan public entity; (11) custody charges and commissions on se- curities; and (12) payment of the cost of mainte- nance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for invest- ments in Morocco, within the framework of the Investment Code, provided that the amounts deb- ited do not exceed 50 percent of the investment undertaken by the nonresident and 25 percent of the company's total capital. The following types of investment are permitted without the prior authorization of the Exchange Of- fice: (1) participation in the equity capital of a com- pany being established; (2) subscription to the capi- tal increase of an existing company; (3) purchase of Moroccan securities; (4) non-interest-bearing con- tributions to partnership current accounts; (5) pur- chase of real property; (6) self-financing of con- struction projects; (7) creation or purchase of a sole proprietorship; and (8) operations to increase capi- tal through the capitalization of reserves, car- ryovers, or reserve provisions that have become available, or the consolidation of partnership cur- rent accounts. Similarly, operations involving the conveyance of investments between foreigners no longer require the authorization of the Exchange Office. The repatriation of capital for the above in- vestments is guaranteed. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable be- tween nonresidents. These are 7.5 percent, five- year bonds on which interest and redemption pro- ceeds are transferable. The import and export of securities require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept convertible currency funds from nonresi- dents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, pro- vided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same maturity period. The rate of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on their corresponding placements. Gold Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment pur- poses. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes During 1990 Nonresident Accounts April 6. The minimum amount of DH 50,000 for the opening of Convertible Dirham Accounts by nonresident Moroccans was abolished. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The prior approval of the Foreign Ex- change Office of import licenses issued by the For- eign Trade Ministry for products on List B (re- stricted items) was no longer required. May 1. The importation of new and used cars was liberalized; new passenger cars with an engine size of 1,800 cc or less and all used cars were transferred from List B to List A. September 1. Under the 1990 General Import Pro- gram, published on September 1, 427 items (5 per- cent of Morocco's tariff lines) were transferred from List B to List A. Following the transfer, 17 percent of Morocco's tariff lines, affecting 11 percent of im- ports, remained on List B. The number of tariff lines was reduced from 26 to 15. Payments for Invisibles February 22. The prior approval of the Foreign Exchange Office of payments abroad for foreign technical assistance was no longer required for amounts less than DH 50,000, and such transfers may be effected directly by commercial banks in Morocco. July 30. The maximum foreign exchange al- lowance granted for tourist travel by residents was raised from DH 100 to DH 1,000 a person a year. September 18. Monthly transfers for living ex- penses of students (regardless of whether or not they are receiving scholarships) were increased. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mozambique is the Metical (plu- ral Meticais), which is pegged to a weighted basket consisting of 10 major currencies, with the weights reflecting the relative importance of these curren- cies in Mozambique's external transactions in goods and services. Exchange rates for these and 11 other currencies are published daily by the Bank of Mo- zambique (BM), which is the central bank and also the major commercial bank.1 On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates of the metical, in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Mt. 1,027.87 - US$1 and Mt. 1,048.43 = US$1, respectively. Since October 31, 1990, a secondary market for foreign exchange (Mercado Secunddrio de Cdmbios (MSC)) in which exchange rates are to be deter- mined freely by supply and demand, has been in operation, initially in Maputo. The opening ex- change rates on the first day of operations were Mt. 1,650 (buying) and Mt. 1,732.50 (selling) per US$1, and the rates on December 31, 1990, were Mt. 1,834.00 (buying) and Mt. 1,925.83 (selling) per US$1. Authorized operators are free to set buying and selling rates in the MSC. All three banks —the BM, Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), and Banco Standard Totta de Mozambique (BSTM)— operate in the MSC, as does one enterprise, SAFRI- QUE, in Beira. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The National Planning Commission prepares an- nually, in consultation with the Ministries of Fi- nance, Commerce, and Cooperation, as well as the BM, a global foreign exchange budget for the follow- ing year, as part of the Government Economic and Social Program. Imports and exports are authorized by means of licenses issued by the Ministry of Com- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malawi kwacha, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollars. merce, and invisible transactions are controlled by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange transac- tions, including the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the BM. The BSTM is authorized to handle some transactions in the official market, and all three banks are licensed to operate in the MSC. Prescription of Currency s Mozambique maintains a bilateral clearing agree- ment with Tanzania, but transactions under it have been suspended. It also maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements with Malawi, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe, but these relate to use of national cur- rencies for minor trade in border areas. Nonresident Accounts Noncitizens resident in Mozambique may hold foreign currency accounts denominated in foreign exchange at the BM and the BSTM. There is no restriction on the use of these accounts. Noncitizens resident in Mozambique may hold national cur- rency accounts in any bank operating in the coun- try, but transfers of such funds abroad at the official exchange rate require proof that the amounts origi- nated in foreign currency. Persons or businesses residing abroad may open nonresident bank ac- counts for specific purposes based on legitimate interests they retain in Mozambique; credits and debits to these accounts must comply with the reg- ulations established by the competent authorities. Ex-residents (national and foreign residents who no longer enjoy residency status) may hold bank ac- counts in Mozambique, but their use is subject to prior authorization, in accordance with Ministry of Finance regulations. Withdrawals may be made by the holders of such accounts for payment of taxes, certain types of debt (fees and obligations to the Government, government agencies, credit institu- tions, and insurance companies, provided that such debts are properly verified), authorized outward transfers, maintenance expenses for spouses and relatives, payments of expenses incurred by the ac- count holders while visiting the country, and other payments for which authorization is obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Trade. The license specifies, among 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 MOZAMBIQUE other things, the place of embarkation or disem- barkation of the goods and the amount and cur- rency of payment. Enterprises may obtain import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce, which considers applications on a case-by-case basis. Im- ports of raw materials, spare parts, petroleum, food, and medicines are given priority. Individuals may import goods up to US$500 without an import license if expenditures from the country's foreign exchange fund are not involved; licenses are pro- vided routinely for higher-value imports financed in this way. Since October 31, 1990, under the MSC regulations, importers have been allowed to pur- chase foreign exchange in the MSC, provided that import licenses (which are required only for imports exceeding US$500) bear the notation "Covered by the MSC." Certain stores operating under govern- ment franchise import goods for retail sales in U.S. dollars and South African rand. A system for the nonadministrative allocation of foreign ex- change (SNAAD) is applied to imported inputs for the clothing and shoe industries and to spare parts for freight carriers and public transportation, the construction industry, and agriculture. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles at the official exchange rate are processed by the Bank of Mozambique upon presentation of the authorization granted by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Travel allowances in official exchange are made available to individuals only in certain cases, mainly for medical treatment; such allowances are deter- mined on a case-by-case basis. Individuals are per- mitted to buy foreign exchange in the MSC to pay for expenses associated with travel for education, scientific and cultural visits, and medical treatment, up to limits prescribed in the MSC regulations. An annual ceiling of US$2,000 is applied to other trav- elers. Remittances for education abroad are subject to a monthly ceiling of US$300. Each ministry is subject to a ceiling on foreign exchange allowed to be used for official business and educational travel expenses. Foreign experts working in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of their salaries, de- pending on the terms of their employment con- tracts. Nonresidents may export foreign bank notes up to the amount declared on entry. Exports and reimports of domestic currency are prohibited. Cit- izens leaving the country on business and private travel are entitled to purchase foreign currency at the border, up to the equivalent of US$12.50, once a year. An airport fee equivalent to US$20 in foreign currency is levied by the airport authorities on each departure. Remittances of profit/dividends from foreign di- rect investment may be made in accordance with the specific project authorization. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, and all export proceeds must be collected through the Bank of Mozambique. Export licenses are granted if applica- ble legal requirements are fulfilled. Exporters of most products and some services are allowed to retain a certain proportion of foreign exchange pro- ceeds to purchase imported merchandise and ser- vice inputs; the average retention rate is about 43 percent. Since October 1990, certain exporters have been permitted, subject to specific authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Commerce and the BM, to sell up to 20 percent of their export receipts in the MSC. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Mozambique. Since October 31, 1990, however, foreign tourists, temporary visitors, and foreigners working in Mozambique have been al- lowed to sell their foreign exchange in the MSC. Nonresident travelers must convert the equivalent of US$25 into meticais upon arrival. Certain Mozambican nationals working abroad under of- ficially arranged contracts (specifically, miners in the Republic of South Africa) are obliged to remit 60 percent of their earnings through the Bank of Mozambique for conversion into meticais. Capital The Government and the Bank of Mozambique are authorized to borrow abroad. Enterprises are also allowed to borrow abroad, provided that loans are guaranteed by BM (or the Government). All foreign borrowing is channeled through the Bank of Mozambique, which registers such loans, may guarantee them if requested, and monitors foreign debt. The Direct Foreign Investment Law, pub- lished in April 1984, aims to encourage the par- ticipation of foreign capital both in the formation of new enterprises with exclusively foreign capital and in association with other Mozambican enterprises. The Direct Foreign Investment Law specifies guar- antees to investors as well as the right to transfer invested capital and a portion of profits abroad. The incentives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods of time and access to domestic credit. The Foreign Invest- ment Promotion Office (Gabinete para a Promogao do ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 333 Investimento Estrangiero), established in 1984, pro- cesses foreign investment proposals. Gold The marketing and exportation of gold are regu- lated by Decree 11/81 of July 25,1981. The responsi- bility for enforcing this decree rests with the BM. Imports of gold or other precious metals are gov- erned by special regulations. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement During the year, the exchange rate of the metical was adjusted about once a month from Mt. 811.59 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 827.82 = US$1 (selling) on December 30,1989 to Mt. 1,012.36 = US$1 (buy- ing) and Mt. 1,032.61 = US$1 (selling) on Decem- ber 1, 1990. October 31. The secondary market for foreign ex- change (MSC), in which exchange rates would be determined freely by supply and demand, was es- tablished in Maputo. The opening exchange rate on the first day of market operations was Mt. 1,650 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 1,732.50 = US$1 (selling). Authorized operators would be free to set buying and selling rates. The Bank of Mozambique began operations in the MSC. The other two banks began operations in the MSC by the end of Novem- ber 1990. By the end of the year, one nonbank opera- tor, SAFRIQUE (in Beira), was authorized to operate in the MSC. Imports and Import Payments May 14. The coverage of the system of nonad- ministrative foreign exchange allocation (SNAAD) was expanded to include spare parts for the con- struction industry and agriculture, and the limits on amounts for each user were removed. October 31. Under the MSC regulations, importers were allowed to purchase foreign exchange in the MSC, provided that for imports exceeding US$500, licenses with the notation, "Covered by the MSC" were obtained. Exports and Export Proceeds Jcpiuary 1. The retention rates for exporters of most products and certain services were renewed, with some minor changes. As a result the average retention rate was about 43 percent. October 1. Exporters were permitted to sell up to 20 percent of their proceeds in the secondary ex- change market. Payments for Invisibles October 31. Individuals were permitted to buy foreign exchange in the MSC to pay for expenses associated with travel for education, scientific and cultural visits, and medical treatment, up to limits prescribed in the MSC regulations. An annual limit of US$2,000 was set for all other travelers; remit- tances for education abroad were limited to US$300 a month. Individuals were permitted to purchase up to US$500 in the MSC on a "no-questions-asked basis/' November 1. The airport departure fee, payable in foreign currency, was raised to US$20 from US$10 a person. The tax would apply to nonnationals (resi- dent or nonresident). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar Kyat, which is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 - SDR 1. Myanmar applies margins of 2 percent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat- SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Jap- anese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the currencies of some member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (i.e., the Bangladesh taka, the Indian rupee, the Pakistan rupee, and the Sri Lanka rupee) are also determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. On December 28,1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 6.0604 and K 6.1816, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, the Netherlands guilder, and the Singapore dollar are determined daily on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market, and buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on ap- propriate cross rates published in the Asian Wall Street Journal or the London Financial Times. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Control- ler of Foreign Exchange and the Exchange Control Board, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign ex- change. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency Myanmar maintains no bilateral payments agree- ments. Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settle- ments with India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that country. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Myan- mar. Receipts must be collected in convertible cur- rencies or to the debit of an External Account in Myanmar. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by international or- ganizations, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents. Such accounts are normally held in deut- sche mark, Indian rupees, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely, but no interest is payable on them. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in Myanmar are en- titled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards for use in diplomatic shops. Nonresidents may be au- thorized to hold external accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. The following regulations apply to the operation of foreign currency accounts: (a) Foreign currency accounts of national firms Private exporters who are registered with the Ministry of Trade are allowed to open foreign cur- rency accounts with their export proceeds. The ex- porter is allowed to retain 100 percent of export proceeds. Account holders are allowed to import under valid import licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade on the basis of import letters of credit or on a collection basis. (b) Foreign currency accounts of national individuals The following are currently allowed to open for- eign currency accounts: (1) Myanmar nationals re- turning from abroad after completing their assign- ments; (2) Myanmar nationals working abroad with foreign firms under official permits; (3) Myan- mar seamen working with foreign shipping lines under the existing instructions; (4) Myanmar na- tionals working with the United Nations and its affiliated organizations; (5) service personnel of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs performing their duties with Myanmar embassies abroad; (6) Myanmar na- tionals receiving pensions in foreign currency after serving with foreign governments or international organizations; (7) Myanmar nationals receiving for- eign exchange for services rendered to foreign indi- viduals, foreign organizations and firms, or foreign 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 335 governments; (8) Myanmar nationals receiving their pay in foreign currency from foreign firms abroad for services rendered as agents; (9) Myan- mar nationals receiving rentals in foreign currency for their tangible and intangible assets; (10) Myan- mar nationals receiving foreign currency in inheri- tance owing to the death of their relatives; (11) My- anmar nationals receiving foreign currency in compensation from foreign firms and insurance companies owing to an accident causing death or disability while serving with foreign firms; and (12) Myanmar nationals receiving foreign currency in the form of gifts or presents from a blood relative living abroad or on a friendly basis. A foreign currency account may be opened in any of the following currencies: deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Account holders are allowed to purchase air tickets for family visits abroad and to make payments for personal imports and for exam- ination fees for their children with funds from their accounts. With prior approval, they may also pay for medical treatment abroad. (c) Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Invest- ment Law enacted on November 30,1988, economic organizations formed with permits issued by the Union of Myanmar Investment Commission, and foreigners employed by such economic organiza- tions are required to open both a foreign currency account and a kyat account. Under the same law, the following may be transferred abroad through a bank with the approval of the Commission: (1) for- eign currency belonging to the person who has brought in foreign capital; (2) foreign currency per- mitted by the Commission to be withdrawn by the person who has brought in foreign capital; (3) net profits remaining after all taxes and prescribed funds have been deducted from the annual profits received by the person who has brought in foreign capital; and (4) balances of salary and lawful in- come obtained by the foreign person during perfor- mance of service in the State and remaining af ter payments of taxes and deduction of living expenses incurred by him and his family. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source—principally opium and other nar- cotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. An import program is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. All imports in- volving use of official foreign exchange are made by the public sector through the ministries. The My- anma Export-Import Services (MEIS) import goods for the use of the private sector. In general, state economic enterprises and departments import goods for their own use, including imports under loan and aid agreements. Licenses are not required. A licensing fee of 5 percent of the c . i .f. value is levied on imports that are intended for resale, but imports for departmental use are exempted. Most imports are purchased on an f .o .b. basis, and ship- ments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Myanmar Five Star Shipping Corporation wher- ever possible. Imports of certain products require trade permits as prescribed by the Ministry of Trade., All payments for imports are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. State economic enter- prises obtain foreign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within the approved foreign exchange budget after endorsement by the respective ministries. Foreign exchange allocations can be transferred by a ministry from one enterprise to another; transfers among ministries require cabi- net approval. Myanmar nationals who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make payments for personal imports without limit with the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals who have not yet opened foreign currency accounts while they are working abroad under official permits may make payments on their personal imports out of their accumulated savings of legitimate funds. My- anmar nationals and other travelers may bring in a reasonable amount of personal and other classified goods when they enter the country. Border imports do not require permits as long as they are not pro- hibited goods. Payments for Invisibles There are no licensing requirements for pay- ments in connection with foreign trade handled by the public sector. All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to licensing and are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or technical institu- tions abroad and payments for subscriptions to cer- tain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the Gov- ernment, the limit being one half of the net salary if the wife is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the wife is living in Myanmar. Outward remittances of insurance premium payments other than for the Myanma Insurance Corporation are not permitted. The remittance of pension payments to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 MYANMAR retired government employees is permitted only if the persons concerned have been nonnationals throughout their term of service and are now resid- ing in their native countries. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Myanmar nationals require official permission to travel abroad. Such permission may be granted for travel on official missions, including trade missions that comprise private businessmen representing the Chamber of Commerce, for approved religious pilgrimages, or for approved employment abroad. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case- by-case basis, while travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection with state scholar- ships. Tourist travel by Myanmar nationals has been suspended. Residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad may take out freely US$50 and the equivalent of K100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Nonresidents who have stayed in Myanmar for less than six months may, on leaving the country, take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conversion of foreign currency. Those who stay longer than six months must sur- render all foreign currency in their possession but may be authorized by the Exchange Control Board to keep foreign currencies in foreign exchange ac- counts. The export of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports comprising iron and steel, brass, copper, and aluminum and scrap thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin that need to be conserved for do- mestic requirements. In practice, state agencies re- sponsible for production may export any product in excess of what is needed for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. Exports are generally effected by the MEIS, al- though timber, rubber, jute, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by the respective state economic enterprises. Rice is exported by the Myanma Agricultural Produce Trading in the name of the MEIS; private traders and cooperatives are also permitted to export rice, a number of beans and pulses, rattan, flour, and cut flowers under valid export permits that are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Certain products, includ- ing rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, a number of beans and pulses, maize, cotton, and groundnuts, are prohibited from export through the border. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control au- thorities, that is, in approved convertible currencies or by debiting the kyat account of banks in the importing country. An export-retention scheme is in operation, under which 100 percent of foreign ex- change proceeds from border exports may be re- tained by the same individual trader or cooperative responsible for the export for the purpose of pur- chasing officially recognized imports from the same source. For border trade, when exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c .i .f. basis must normally be shipped by the Myanmar Five Star Shipping Cor- poration or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered unless special permission to retain them is granted by the exchange control authorities, who may grant such permission to foreign nationals re- siding in Myanmar in connection with official busi- ness. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Myanmar currency is prohibited. My- anmar nationals working abroad under permission from the Government are required to repatriate part of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. In the case of Myanmar seamen serving abroad, the re- patriation requirement is 25 percent of basic pay, and the kyat equivalent is credited to their bank accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad in international organizations and not subject to in- come tax are required to repatriate 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange; the kyat equivalent is credited to the accounts of such na- tionals or their families. Myanmar nationals work- ing abroad in private organizations are required to remit as tax 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange through embassies in their coun- try of residence. In addition, if their annual earnings exceed US$5,000, they are required to remit home between 2 percent and 10 percent of their earnings depending on how long they stay in the foreign country. Capital Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Investment Law enacted on November 30,1988 by the Union of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 337 Myanmar State Law and Order Restoration Council, the Foreign Investment Commission is empowered to accept proposals for investment in Myanmar from (1) a foreigner to the extent of 100 percent foreign capital, and (2) a joint venture made be- tween a foreign investor and a Myanmar citizen, with the share of foreign capital representing at least 35 percent of the total capital. In order to facili- tate and promote foreign investment, the Commis- sion can grant exemption from customs duties on machinery and equipment imported during con- struction of the project, and from income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years including the year production of goods and services began, or for more than three years, depending upon the success of the enterprise. The Government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit shall not be na- tionalized during the term of the contract, or during an extended term, if so extended. Capital and profits are permitted to be transferred abroad through foreign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Myanmar. Li- censes for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The exportation of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA1 (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Namibia is the South Afr ican Rand. The exchange market in Namibia is man- aged by the South A f r ican Reserve Bank, whose principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1990, the commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the public were US$0.3910 buying and US$0.3905 selling per R l. Spot and forward exchange operations are regu- lated by the exchange control and banking regula- tions of South A f r ica. Authorized dealers are per- mitted to conduct fo rwa rd exchange operations, including cover, for transactions by residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward ex- change contracts may cover the entire period of the ou ts tand ing commitments/accruals. Forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresi- dents subject to certain limitations. Forward cover is provided in U .S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for ma tur i t ies not ex- ceeding 12 months at a time in the fo rm of rand- U.S. dollar swap transactions with a margin based on an interest ra te d i f fe ren t ial between the U .S. dollar and the rand. Special rand forward cover at p re fe ren t ial rates is provided in respect of import f inanc ing o f fe red to and accepted by Namibian importers. Such special fo rwa rd cover must coincide with the redemption date of rele- vant financing and may not be canceled before maturity. Gold mining companies/houses may sell fo rwa rd anticipated receipts of their f u t u re gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the financial rand system of the Common Monetary Area (CMA), local sales and redemption proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents, capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved out- ward capital transfers by residents are not allowed to be transferred in foreign currency, but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresi- dents at a freely determined exchange rate, and the exchange rate for the financial rand is usually at a Namibia became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 25, 1990. discount from the commercial rand rate. These bal- ances may be used to purchase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to finance investments in new firms and certain properties. Exchange Control Territory Namibia concluded a bilateral mone tary agree- ment with South Afr ica establishing a jo int mone- tary area, which came into e f fect on March 21, 1990. A l though Namibia is not yet pa rt of the CMA, which is a single exchange control terr i tory comprising Lesotho, South A f r ica, and Swazi- land, for all practical purposes it may be regarded as such. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Namibia applies exchange con- trols that are almost identical to those of other CMA members. Administration of Control The Bank of Namibia, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transac- tions. Import and export permits, where required, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The authorized dealers automatically provide fo r- eign exchange for imports f rom outside the South- ern A f r ican Customs Union (SACU)2 upon pre- sentation of necessary documen ts. Advance payments for imports require the approval of the Bank of Namibia. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the CMA constitute the Nonresident Area. The rand is legal tender in Namibia and Lesotho but not in Swaziland. Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents3 are divided into Nonresident Accounts, Financial Rand Ac- counts, and Emigrant Blocked Accounts. The reg- ulations applying to these accounts in South Africa are applied in Namibia. 2The members of the SACU are Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. 3A nonresident is a person (i.e., a na tural person or legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the Common Monetary Area. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 339 Imports and Import Payments There are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the SACU. Imports f rom coun- tries outside the SACU are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regula- tions. For purposes of import permit issuance, Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations of South Africa is currently enforced. These permits are valid for one year, are expressed in value terms, and are valid for imports f rom any country outside the SACU. At present, about 90 percent of imports require a permit. Namibia has the right to restrict certain imports (through customs duties or quantitative restrictions) from countries out- side the SACU and f rom countries of the SACU under certain conditions. A wide range of imports from countries outside the SACU are subject to a general sales tax of 13 percent (as are locally pro- duced goods) and to surcharges ranging f rom 7.5 percent on certain food s tu f fs to 40 percent on nonessential luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are empowered to approve trade-related invisible payments without limita- tion, and other invisible payments up to estab- lished limits, as follows: (1) basic annual al- lowances for tourist travel of R 10,000 for an adult and R 5,000 for a child under 12 years (basic an- nual allowances for travel to the neighboring coun- tries—Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—are R 4,000 for an adult and R 2,000 for a child under 12 years); (2) business travel allowances at a rate not exceed- ing R 750 a day, with a maximum of R 15,000 in a calendar year (allowances for business travel to the neighboring countries mentioned above are at a rate not exceeding R 600 a year, with a maximum of R 8,000 a year). Residents leaving Namibia for desti- nations outside the CMA are allowed to take the full applicable allowance in foreign bank notes. A larger amount may be granted on presentation of docu- mented proof of need. There are no prescribed limits on remittances for education and family maintenance, and reasonable amounts are granted on a case-by-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are permitted without a license and are shipped through South Africa. Permits are re- quired for the exportation of goods in short supply to the non-SACU area. All export proceeds are normally required to be remitted to Namibia and surrendered within six months of shipment or within seven days of the date of accrual. In order to enforce the repatriation requirement, exporters are required to cover for- ward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 200 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the importation of do- mestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital All capital t rans fe rs to and f rom destinations outside the CMA in the form of loans are subject to specific approval f rom the Bank of Namibia. Ap- proval is generally given for borrowing' abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculation or con- sumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Namibia's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Inward trans- fers of capital f rom non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely permitted, whereas applica- tions by residents to retain in, or t rans fer to, coun- tries outside the CMA funds for bona fide long- term investments in specific development pro- jec ts or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on their own merits. Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other eq- uity investments by nonresidents are transferable only through the medium of financial rand. Non- residents are not allowed to purchase farms and residential properties with financial rand. Families emigrating to destinations outside the CMA are granted the normal travel (tourist) allowance and are permitted to remit up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons) through the medium of financial rand. Any balance exceeding this limit must be credited to an Emigrant Blocked Account; the bal- ance, including earned income, can be transferred under prescribed conditions. Immigrants are re- quired to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 NAMIBIA assets transferred to South Africa may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad within the first three years after arrival. Gold Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Namibia for numismatic and in- vestment purposes only. All exports and imports of gold require the prior approval of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement March 21. Namibia concluded a bilateral mone- tary agreement with South Africa establishing a joint monetary area between the two countries. Administration of Control July 10. Namibia became a contracting party to the Southern African Customs Union (SACU). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee. The exchange rate of the Nepalese rupee is determined on the basis of its relationship to a currency'basket. On December 31,1990, the official buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, were NRs 30.40 and NRs 30.60, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies,1 with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Convertibility between the Indian and Nepalese rupee in Nepal is unrestricted, and the Indian rupee may be used to effect all bona fide transactions; purchases of Indian currency in excess of Rs 10,000 must be documented, and the purpose must be specified. Forward exchange cover is avail- able only in U.S. dollars for export transactions and is provided by authorized banks only. Administration of Control Permission is required from the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) for all payments in convertible curren- cies except for import payments and certain other specified payments. The Department of Commerce administers the licensing of imports from countries other than India. Each government ministry re- ceives an allocation under the foreign exchange budget. The Ministry of Commerce is also responsi- ble for licensing exports to countries other than India, where required. All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers (the Nepal Bank Ltd., Nepal Arab Bank, Nepal Grind- lay's Bank, Indo Suez Bank, and the Rastriya Banij- ya Bank). Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency requirements do not ap- ply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force,2 and these may be made in foreign currency supplied by the NRB. All current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) other than India 1 Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Singapore dollars. 2Nepal maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, and the U.S.S.R. (Bangladesh, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myan- mar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) must be effected through the ACU. Payments for imports from India may be settled in Indian rupees. Proceeds of exports to India may be obtained in Indian rupees, while proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in any of the quoted convertible currencies for which the NRB quotes buying and selling rates. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may accept deposits denomi- nated in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling and may determine the rate of interest on such deposits. Eligibility for the opening of such accounts is lim- ited to (1) Nepalese citizens earning convertible for- eign currency from employment in international organizations, agencies, or embassies; (2) Nepalese citizens earning foreign currency by working abroad (except in India and Bhutan) for more than six months; (3) international organizations and for- eign nationals; and (4) Indian and Bhutanese cit- izens residing in countries other than Nepal, India, or Bhutan. Current and time deposit accounts can be opened, the latter for periods of three months, six months, nine months, or one year. Current ac- counts may be opened with a minimum of US$1,000 (or the equivalent), and time deposits with a mini- mum of US$5,000 (or the equivalent). Nonresidents can withdraw their deposits at any time, and these can be converted into any convertible currency at the authorized banks. In the case of Nepalese cit- izens returning from overseas, foreign currency ac- counts must be closed within one year of return to Nepal or whenever the NRB requests. At the time of closure, 70 percent of the local currency value of the deposit can be exchanged for import licenses of the same value, and the remaining 30 percent can be exchanged for local currency. Nonresident Accounts The NRB permits foreign diplomats, foreign na- tionals working in projects financed with foreign- donated funds under bilateral or multilateral agree- ments with the government, and nonresidents to open "convertible rupee accounts" and "currency designated accounts" with Nepalese banks. Con- vertible rupee accounts may be maintained only in Nepalese rupees, and currency designated accounts may be maintained in all convertible cur- rencies with the prior approval of the NRB. Balances 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 NEPAL on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Accounts in Indian currency may be opened only under special arrangements. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and de- posited with a Nepalese bank, can be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to the prior approval of the NRB. Imports and Import Payments Import arrangements vary, depending on the source, user/importer, and commodity in question. Imports from India generally do not require import licenses but are subject to documentation require- ments. All imports of goods from countries other than India, except imports under baggage rules, require import licenses and are subject to quantita- tive import restrictions. The licensing of imports from third countries is administered by various ministries, which receive a foreign exchange alloca- tion under the annual foreign exchange budget. Imports for licensing purposes are classified by end user and fall into the following five broad categories: industries; government offices; corporations, or- ganizations, and missions; commercial; and per- sonal. The Ministry of Commerce administers the issuance of licenses. In the case of industrial im- ports, approval is required from the Ministry of Industry before licenses are issued, with exceptions for certain items. Goods may be imported under several categories depending on the end user, in which case different license premiums apply. Imports of certain items, such as cigarettes and matches, goods considered harmful to health, arms, ammunition and explosives, wireless trans- mitters, precious metals, and jewelry (except under baggage rules), require special permission from the Government. Imports of several items, including beef, washing soap (except from India), and de- tergent powder, are banned. Imports of certain industrial raw materials are processed through the passbook system, which is administered by the Ministry of Industry. Under the passbook system, industrialists are given an annual entitlement for specified inputs imported from countries other than India based on the pre- vious year's production level and the current year's production program, with the possibility of renewal and adjustment in case of changes in production levels. The entitlement and actual utilization are recorded in the passbook. Approval for a license is readily granted up to the annual entitlement, af ter the use of the previous imports has been verified. After this, the Ministry of Commerce automatically issues the import licenses, and the NRB normally grants foreign exchange approval. More liberal conditions apply to raw materials, intermediate inputs, and final goods that are im- ported under Open General License (OGL). In the case of raw wool, trading companies and actual users are automatically given import licenses with- out review of past use or a passbook. In the case of other OGL items, a passbook is required, but such items are subject to less frequent reviews of past use than under the basic passbook system. In the case of iron billets, a review is undertaken annually. Imports of metal for handicraft industries (except silver) are carried out through special importing companies for cottage industries, and they receive a special allocation of foreign exchange. As silver handicrafts are being promoted, silver is imported by the NRB and sold to silver jewelers and handcraft-exporting industries through the com- mercial banks. Import licenses are also auctioned every other month for specified goods. Goods imported under the import license auction system are classified into the following five categories: (1) essential goods and industrial raw materials; (2) consumer goods; (3) semiluxury goods; (4) luxury goods; and (5) all others. The total value of import licenses to be auc- tioned depends on the available amount of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange is automatically pro- vided to successful bidders at the official exchange rate. A fee of 1 percent of the value of the license is imposed for all imports, including import licenses that are auctioned, with the exception of personal imports for which the license fee varies according to the goods to be imported and the source of finance. Margin deposits are required on letters of credit as follows: (1) 10 percent for industrial raw materials, machinery, and spare parts, if imported by regis- tered industries or allied trading enterprises; (2) 20 percent for development and construction materials (such as cement, iron and iron rods, and corrugated sheets), dairy products, writing paper, newsprint, agricultural products, medical equip- ment, and educational and scientific materials; and (3) 30 percent for all other imports. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are allowed to bring in goods worth NRs 1,000, free of customs duties and sales taxes. In addition, they can import, without license but subject to customs duties and taxes, special goods worth up to NRs 15,000 twice a year. Those who have official sources of foreign exchange earnings and have stayed abroad for more than one month are allowed additional imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 343 Payments for Invisibles Payments to India in Indian rupees that exceed a specified amount are subject to documentation requirements. For travel to countries other than India for medi- cal treatment, exchange allowances are granted as recommended by a panel of doctors. Students studying at their own expense in these countries are granted exchange allowances covering expenses for boarding, lodging, and tuition fees on the recom- mendation of the Ministry of Education. Foreign exchange is made available for certain business trips, but is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Pay- ments for other invisibles depend on the essen- tiality of the transaction. Nepalese and Indian cur- rencies may be taken out freely to India only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; these currencies may not be exported to countries other than India. Foreign bank notes, other than Indian bank notes, may not be taken out by residents without permis- sion. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank notes they brought in; however, nonresidents, other than Indian na- tionals, may not take out Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of items having archaeological and re- ligious importance, and certain other exports, in- cluding old coins, narcotics, and explosive mate- rials, are prohibited. The re-export to India of non- Nepalese goods and the re-export to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. Export licenses are required for ready-made gar- ments, rice, maize, wheat, pulses, oilseeds, and industrial raw materials. Exports of ready-made garments to the United States are restricted to an annual volume growth of 6 percent. A minimum price system is maintained for all exports to coun- tries other than India. The Industrial Enterprises Act of 1987 provided for refunds of import duties paid by exporters and for bonded warehouses. However, the introduction of these facilities is still at an early stage. A duty relief scheme has been set up only for the ready- made garments industry, and this operates in con- junction with the bonded warehouse scheme. When exporters purchase imports from the bonded warehouses, the duty payable is lodged in an es- crow bank account and is released when the gar- ments made from these imports are exported and the required documentation is provided to verify the use of the imports. The exchange proceeds from exports must be sur- rendered to the authorized banks within six months of shipment. Unit values are defined on an f .o .b. basis. Exports to countries other than India in ex- cess of US$1,000 in value are allowed only against irrevocable letters of credit. Foreign tourists leaving Nepal may take out as souvenirs, without permission, Nepalese goods whose value does not exceed the value of foreign currency exchanged in Nepal. Commercial banks may grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of the f .o .b. value of products specified by the Government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum period of three months; this period may be extended without penalty under special cir- cumstances outside the control of the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds derived from transac- tions in invisibles must be surrendered to the NRB or an authorized bank at the official rate of ex- change. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in only from India, and only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; these currencies may not be imported from countries other than India. When extending their visas, tourists are required to pro- duce evidence that they have converted a minimum of US$10 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Other foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but they must be declared if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$2,000. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are pro- hibited from making any type of investment in for- eign countries, except investment specifically ex- empted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or fi- nancial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors who have obtained an invest- ment guarantee are eligible for outward remittances in respect of the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of investment, dividends, interest, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 NEPAL or principal repayment; amounts arising from the transfer of technology; and compensations on ac- quired assets. The Industrial Enterprises Act of 1987 contains provisions regarding local equity require- ments for foreign investment in enterprises. For- eign investment is not permitted in cottage, small- scale, or defense-related industries. Foreign inves- tors can hold 100 percent equity in large-scale indus- tries and up to 50 percent in medium-scale indus- tries. Small-scale industries are defined as those with fixed assets valued at up to NRs 3 million; for medium-scale industries, the asset value limit is up to NRs 10 million, and those with fixed assets in excess of NRs 10 million are considered large-scale industries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold are banned, except under baggage rules. Changes During 1990 Prescription of Currency November 28. The bilateral payment arrangement with Poland was terminated. Imports and Import Payments May 1. The number of goods eligible for imports under OGL was reduced from 12 to 5 items; the 5 items consisted of raw wool, cotton yarn, petroleum products, coal, and newsprint. May 15. The personal luggage rule was revised. The new rule requires that importers show autho- rized sources of foreign exchange earnings when importing personal effects. July 1. Goods to be imported under the import license auction system were reclassified into five categories, as follows: (1) essential goods and in- dustrial raw materials; (2) consumer goods; (3) semiluxury goods; (4) luxury goods; and (5) others. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Nether- lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Spain, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate mechanism (ERM) of the Euro- pean Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, the Netherlands maintains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the pound sterling and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1990, the rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Netherlands Guilders Upper Limit Lower Limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 5.5870 100 Danish kroner 30.2100 100 deutsche mark 115.2350 100 French francs 34.3600 1 Irish pound 3.0870 1,000 Italian lire 1.5400 1 pound sterling 3.5295 100 Spanish pesetas 1.8405 5.3415 28.8825 110.1675 32.8475 2.9510 1.4725 3.1305 1.6325 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being mainly each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buying and selling rates for all major foreign currencies. On Decem- ber 31, 1990, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was f. 6900 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward; they are free to .deal with resi- dents and nonresidents, whether banks or non- banks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transaction required. Nonbank residents are free to hold Netherlands guilder and foreign currency ac- counts in the Netherlands and abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba are subject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. With regard to any third countries with which payments agree- ments might be in force, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Aruba will, if so stipu- lated, constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Nether- lands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign A f fa i rs, Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Agricul- ture, Nature Management, and Fisheries. Import and export licensing, including transit trade,1 is handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. For their payments to and receipts from nonresidents, residents are generally required to use the intermediation of banks or other domestic institutions or persons authorized by the Nether- lands Bank to handle these exchange transactions within the scope of the regulations based on the External Financial Relations Act 1980 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the compilation of the balance of payments, residents are required to indi- cate on reporting forms, for all payments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 25,000, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is involved. Residents are free to open and maintain bank accounts abroad and to maintain current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. The Nether- lands Bank must be notified of such accounts, and jThe only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 NETHERLANDS entries in them are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the related regulations.2 In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the Netherlands notified the Fund, on Au- gust 27, 1990, that, except with permission granted by or on behalf of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, the making of payments (directly or indirectly) and transfers of capital or other financial resources (directly or indirectly) to the Government of Iraq and the state of Kuwait, and to persons or legal entities within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait is restricted. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collect- ing receipts from them, residents may use guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or in any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All payments or receipts are freely per- mitted, as are transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for imports originat- ing in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading coun- tries,3 as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries, most imports that require an import license are free from quan- titative restriction. Most imports from Eastern Euro- pean countries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-European Community (EC) countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous bar- riers to imports; common EC regulations are also 2Since no exchange restrictions are in force, the position of the Netherlands is in full conformity with the liberalization required under the 1988 EC Capital Liberalization Directive with effect from July 1, 1990. 3State trading countries are defined for this purpose as consist- ing of Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms to the relevant exchange control regulations (that is, trans- fers are properly reported). Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in for- eign and domestic bank notes and coins or docu- ments of value; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade con- cerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and con- tractual amortization due to nonresidents are per- mitted freely. Nonresidents may export all unused documents of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands bank notes and coins that they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few com- modities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural products, and iron and steel scrap and related products. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amount of foreign bank notes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Netherlands, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Exchange control in the Netherlands is based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1980, except when current payments and capital transactions are interwoven, as in payment intervals relating to trade transactions. External capital transactions are unrestricted. Di- rect investment in the form of capital participations (inward and outward) is free of license. Both short- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 347 term lending (for less than two years) and long-term lending to nonresidents (whether affiliated com- panies or others) are free of license. Pursuant to the Netherlands Bank's arrangements, issues of guilder-denominated bearer paper on behalf of resi- dents and nonresidents (both interest-bearing with a maturity term of two years or more and shares) of f. 50 million or over must be reported to the Nether- lands Bank by the lead managers at least one work- ing day before the announcement of an issue in the market. The Netherlands Bank's approval is not re- quired for the timing of an issue. For all issues of guilder-denominated bearer paper, management requirements are in force. Lead managers must be entered in the register of credit institutions of the Netherlands Bank, and must have a full-fledged securities/issuing department in the Netherlands. In addition, reciprocity requirements apply. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market ex- change rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign deben- tures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Eu- roguilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage bor- rowing from nonresidents is free of license. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and do- mestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may upon depar- ture have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Nonresidents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds trans- ferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions for foreign exchange control reasons. However, for supervision reasons, limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign cur- rency and precious metals. In this context, the banks are required to report their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, the same data must also be reported at mid-month. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign cur- rency and guilder loans to nonresidents. The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by residents must be re- ported to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. Totals of security transac- tions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resi- dent parties concerned. Gold Neither the Netherlands Bank nor any govern- ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coins, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transactions of the Netherlands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are sub- ject to a value-added tax of 6 percent, as are domes- tic sales of gold coins. All other gold transactions are taxed at 18.5 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when they originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1990 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and NA f. 1.78 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The offi- cial selling rate was NA f. 1.80 per US$1. The Bank of the Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of the official buying and selling rates; on December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates were NA f. 1.7895 and NA f. 1.7905, respectively, per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. A foreign exchange tax of 1.3 percent is levied on payments made by residents to nonresidents. Pur- chases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control pur- poses are exempt from the exchange tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The central bank issues exchange licenses, where required. The Department of Commerce, Industry, and Employment issues import licenses, where re- quired. The central bank permits the commercial banks to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. Re- ceipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. 1The Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. On January 1,1986, the island of Aruba, formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetropolitan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2Aruban florins, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, Swiss francs, and European Cur- rency Units. All currencies other than the Netherlands Antillean guilder are considered foreign currencies. All payments made by residents to nonresidents and receipts through authorized banks as well as through banks abroad must be reported to the cen- tral bank for the compilation of the balance of payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident ac- counts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts with autho- rized banks (positive balances) in Netherlands An- tillean guilders. Balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 200,000 without central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Im- ports whose delivery and payment dates are more than 12 months apart must be reported to the cen- tral bank. The importation of 58 items for which there are locally produced substitutes is subject to quotas of 40 percent of the total value of domestic production.3 Certain commodities are subject to im- port surcharges in Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles All types of current invisible payments and remit- tances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart; the central bank must receive notification. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The ex- portation of Netherlands Antillean bank notes is prohibited, except for traveling purposes. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed by the central bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Residents are not required to surrender export proceeds. If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of ship- ment, the delay must be reported to the central bank. 3Most of these quotas are expected to be replaced with import tariffs by the end of 1991. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 349 Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments and transfers of loans to resi- dents in the Netherlands Antilles require licenses, which are normally granted. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are sub- ject to control. Investments by residents in real es- tate abroad as well as capital loans to nonresidents require a license. Investment and disinvestment by nonresidents in real estate in the Netherlands Antil- les do not require a license. Investment by residents in officially listed foreign securities [and in mutual funds whose shares are officially quoted] is permit- ted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year. Rein- vestment of proceeds from the sale of securities is also allowed. Residents are allowed to hold foreign bank ac- counts without a special license. Transfers from a local bank account to these foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 10,000 a quarter. Authorized banks' overall position with nonresi- dents is subject to limits set by the central bank, and must always be positive and in currencies listed in Article XXX of the Fund's Articles of Agreement and/or in Netherlands guilders. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Imports and exports of gold do not require a special license. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. The New Zealand authorities do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market, although the Reserve Bank of New Zealand retains discretionary power to inter- vene in the foreign exchange market. On Decem- ber 31,1990, the closing buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.5925 and US$0.5820, re- spectively, per $NZ 1. Foreign exchange dealers are free to adjust exchange rate quotations in response to market conditions throughout each business day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Financial institutions are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the funds are required or the source from which they are obtained, and they are free to set their own rates of forward transactions with their customers. Forward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. The Re- serve Bank does not maintain margins in respect of forward exchange transactions. On August 5, 1982, New Zealand formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Receipts and remittances of foreign exchange are free from controls. Until recently, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand continued to administer the re- maining exchange control provisions, which were as follows: (1) exchange dealers must be authorized by the Reserve Bank; (2) except for transactions in- volving foreign currency bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks, which may be undertaken by any party, foreign exchange transactions must be han- dled by an authorized foreign exchange dealer; (3) for statistical purposes, except for small amounts, details of receipts and remittances are still required for receipts of foreign exchange from over- seas and for remittances of external payments; and (4) information required for the purposes of pru- dential supervision of foreign exchange dealers and the foreign exchange market must be provided to the Reserve Bank. From February 1990, following the abolition of exchange control regulations, any financial institution has been permitted to deal in foreign exchange without authorization. Any re- maining requirements relate only to providing sta- tistical information and to prudential supervision of registered banks. The Overseas Investment Commission adminis- ters the regulations governing foreign direct invest- ment in New Zealand; the licensing of imports and prohibited exports is the responsibility of the Minis- try of Commerce and the Customs Department, respectively. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) of August 14, 1952, New Zealand notified the Fund on September 10, 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand is also an acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts Overseas banks' accounts in New Zealand may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Imports and Import Payments By July 1, 1988, import licensing had been abol- ished for all imports, except for those covered by industry plans. The remaining licenses are gener- ally issued through a tendering system. Customs tariff rates falling outside the industry plans have also been reduced in the past few years. Average tariff rates for these industries are expected to be reduced by a further one third by the end of 1992 under the program announced in December 1987. In March 1990, a program of further tariff reductions was announced for the period beyond 1992 to 1996, 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 351 under which almost all tariffs will be reduced to a maximum rate of 10 percent. Import prohibitions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products. Most of these are maintained for reasons relating to plant and animal quarantine, or because the products are considered dangerous to human health, or not in the public interest. However, some restrictions, including those on fresh fruit, are maintained to ensure or- derly marketing in New Zealand. The industry plans cover selected industries that were recognized as facing high adjustment costs when assistance was reduced.2 The plans provide specific programs for the reduction of tariffs and, in almost all cases, the removal of import licensing. As a result of periodic reviews and provisions for prog- ressive liberalization within the plans, the scope of import licensing has been reduced, and in 1990 it covered only certain textiles, clothing, footwear, and plastic tapes. In 1989, licensed imports com- prised 3 percent of total imports. New Zealand became a signatory to the GATT Anti-Dumping Code in May 1988, and in that year the Dumping and Countervailing Duties Act was enacted. Between 1982 and 1990, 21 actions were initiated, of which 10 were against Australia. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA) and the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPAR- TECA),3 imports generally enter duty free from Aus- tralia and the SPARTECA countries. The few remain- ing quantitative restrictions and tariffs on imports of goods from Australia were removed by July 1,1990. Under the ANZCERTA, with effect from July 1990, antidumping actions to be taken by the two govern- ments against each other's imports for purposes of redressing unfair trade practices were replaced by measures to be taken under domestic trade prac- tices legislation. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are industries covered by industry plans include carpets, ce- ramics, electronics, footwear, general rubber goods, glassware, margarine, motor vehicles and components, plastics, shipbuild- ing, starch and related products, textiles and apparel, tires and tubes, wines, and writing instruments. Industries covered by the plans account for about 20 percent of total industrial production. On December 17, 1987, it was announced that industries cur- rently under industry plans would be included in the general tariff-reduction programs on the expiration of the plans unless compelling reasons exist for continued special treatment. 3The islands under this arrangement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand), Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. accorded tariff preferences under the Generalized System of Preferences. In addition, duty-free access is granted to most imports from 36 countries classi- fied as "least developed" by the United Nations. With a few exceptions, tariffs are not imposed on finished goods that are not produced domestically. Payments for Invisibles Financial institutions are permitted to sell foreign exchange for invisible payments. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, profits, and other forms of contractual obligation to nonresidents may be freely made, although there is a reporting re- quirement for statistical purposes. The ANZCERTA also provided a framework for the liberalization of trade in services between Australia and New Zealand subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. It provided that no new restrictions be introduced and that existing restric- tions be reviewed. Currently, there are restrictions on trade in, for example, telecommunications, avia- tion, radio and television broadcasting, and postal services. Exports and Export Proceeds There is no requirement for obligatory return of export earnings (including foreign currency earned for performing services in New Zealand for foreign nationals) through the banking system. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. There are quotas and other quantitative restric- tions on exports of agricultural products, all of which are imposed in agreement with importing countries. Exports of lamb and butter to the Euro- pean Community are subject to quotas, and volun- tary export restraints are applied to exports of beef to the United States. The Export Market Development Taxation Incen- tive, aimed at encouraging the development of ex- port markets through the provision of tax rebates, was phased out in March 1990. Proceeds from Invisibles Remuneration for services provided or to be pro- vided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) and interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio in- vestment are not required to be repatriated. The ANZCERTA provided for a liberalization of trade in services provided by New Zealand residents in Australia, subject to certain conditions (as noted in the section on Payments for Invisibles, above). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 NEW ZEALAND The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as in- terest and dividends is permitted. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic bank notes and coins. Capital In general, consent is not required in respect of capital receipts, although overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must, in some cases, obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission. The Overseas Investment Regulations were liberalized, effective August 24, 1989. The objective of the liberalization was to re- move all but "significant" and/or "sensitive" invest- ment proposals from the requirement to obtain the approval from the Overseas Investment Commis- sion; previously an overseas entity required the Commission's consent for all takeover and business commencement proposals, and all asset acquisi- tions where the consideration exceeded $NZ 2 mil- lion. At present, nonresident persons or companies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zea- land company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the invest- ment would confer on the offerer the beneficial en- titlement of 25 percent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. However, if both the consid- eration and gross assets of the offeree company are less than $NZ 10 million, they are exempt from this requirement. The $NZ 10 million level also triggers the need for Overseas Investment Commission ap- proval where a foreign entity wishes to acquire the assets of a New Zealand company, or to establish a New Zealand subsidiary or branch. More restrictive rules apply in sectors deemed to be "sensitive" (broadcasting, commercial fishing, and rural land). The $NZ 10 million trigger level does not apply to investments in these sectors. Residents are permitted to purchase foreign ex- change for investment purposes. There are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of assets by emigrants. Remittance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident is freely permitted. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand without restriction. There are no restric- tions or licensing requirements for the importation and exportation of gold. Changes During 1990 Administration of Control February 1. The remaining exchange control reg- ulations were abolished, removing the authoriza- tion requirement for financial institutions wishing to deal in foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments March 1. A program of tariff reductions was an- nounced for the period 1992-96, under which al- most all tariffs would be reduced to a maximum rate of 10 percent July 1. Tariff quotas on wines with an f .o .b. value of less than $NZ 2 a liter were eliminated. July 1. All controls were abolished on imports of goods originating in Australia. July 1. Trade between Australia and New Zealand was exempted from antidumping actions and be- came subject to legislation on the domestic trade practices of respective countries. Exports and Export Proceeds March 31. The Export Market Development Taxa- tion Incentive was abolished. July 1. Exports of dairy products to Australia, which were previously limited by an informal un- derstanding under the ANZCERTA, became subject to the rules of free and fair competition within the framework of the ANZCERTA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement There are two currencies in circulation in Nic- aragua, the Cordoba and the Cordoba Oro, which was issued on August 10, 1990 and is valued at parity with the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the cordoba were C$3,000,000 and C$3,060,000 per U.S. dollar, re- spectively.1 In addition, there is an unrecognized parallel market in which the value of the cordoba varies with respect to the official rate. Only the Central Bank, the authorized commercial banks, and the authorized exchange houses can buy and sell foreign exchange; transactions outside the banking system and the authorized exchange houses are prohibited. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Foreign currency-denominated accounts can be opened in the banking system. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement as from July 30, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange but has authorized com- mercial banks and the exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. The Central Bank approves all foreign exchange transactions, and all requests for purchases of foreign exchange are sub- ject to a system of administrative rationing. The Central Bank is also responsible for issuing export authorizations. Some transactions not eligible for official foreign exchange can be effected through an authorized foreign currency deposit account or with currencies acquired from exchange houses. Importers using their own foreign currency ac- counts are not required to go through the exchange approval process, nor are they expected to show proof of sources of funds. 1On March 4, 1991, the authorities of Nicaragua announced that the cordoba would be withdrawn from circulation by the end of April 1991 and that the cordoba oro (CO), in circulation since August 13, 1990, would be the only legal tender at an exchange rate of C$5,000,000 - CO 1. On the same date, the authorities devalued the cordoba oro by 80 percent, moving the rate from CO 1 = US$1 to CO 5 = US$1, and expressed their intention to maintain the exchange rate pegged to the U.S. dollar. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the Cen- tral Bank has the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily con- vertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments for goods and related invisibles may be made through the Central American Clearing House; however, there are monthly limits on bank notes per exporter for compensation through the Central American Clearing House. Trade transac- tions with Honduras are settled on a three-month basis in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit ar- rangement; if the outstanding balance exceeds US$5 million, immediate settlement is required. Trade transactions with Guatemala are carried out in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All importers using foreign exchange through the official market are required to be registered with the Ministry of External Trade; this requirement is waived for individuals who import only occasion- ally for their own needs and who make import set- tlements with foreign exchange obtained in the offi- cial market. For individual imports, other than those financed with their own foreign currency deposit accounts or with foreign exchange from the exchange house market, a specific permit is required. In principle, general import licenses are valid until the end of the calendar year in which they are issued, but the Central Bank may limit their validity in certain cases to only 60 days. Payments for imports from the Central American region must be effected by bank check or certified check in cordobas, authorized for conversion through the Central American Clearing House. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be settled through the banking system.2 Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but al- most all are made through letters of credit. 2However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1,1963), the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconuts, copra, and co- conut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for imports consumed in these areas. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 NICARAGUA In addition to custom duties, certain imports are also subject to a selective consumption tax, irrespec- tive of origin, and to a customs fee. In addition, most commodities, whether imported or domes- tically produced, are subject to a 15 percent general sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Payments for other invis- ibles, such as travel, educational expenses, family maintenance, and medical expenses, may be effected through authorized exchange licenses; they are not normally subject to a limit. Resident travelers are not allowed to take out more than the equivalent of US$1,000 in foreign bank notes without a receipt from a foreign ex- change house, and a special permit from the Cen- tral Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Five public enterprises under the Ministry of Ex- ternal Trade have a monopoly over the exportation of coffee, cotton, meat, sugar, and seafood; exports of these items require a general authorization from the Central Bank. Other exports require specific authorization from the Central Bank, which is is- sued after export prices have been verified as consis- tent with those prevailing in international markets. With a few exceptions, foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports must be surrendered to an au- thorized bank within 30 to 60 days of shipment. Failure to surrender foreign exchange from export proceeds will result in revocation of the export li- cense. However, 25 percent of the proceeds from industrial exports may be denominated in U.S. dol- lars and be used for any specified foreign exchange expenditures of exporters. Also, up to 100 percent of the proceeds from nontraditional agricultural ex- ports may be retained and used for similar purposes. A few agricultural export products are subject to ad valorem taxes, which are applied progressively with the international prices for those exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Charges for hotel rooms (including international telephone calls) must be settled in U.S. dollars. Capital All capital transactions require authorization from the Central Bank. Depending on the availability of foreign exchange, central bank authorization is given for servicing private external debt. Gold The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the country's gold production. The Central Bank is in charge of selling gold at prices prevailing in interna- tional gold markets. The Central Bank can sell gold to domestic, industrial, and other users. Commem- orative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Natural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement June 15. The exchange rate system was unified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The • official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO no longer levies a commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU). Banks levy a fixed commission of CFAF 100 plus a proportional levy of 0.15 percent for transfers inside the WAMU. For transfers outside the Operations Account Area, there is a fur ther exchange commission at a market-determined rate. All of the revenue from commissions charged by the banks on transfers outside the WAMU must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold transactions and domiciliation of exports and re- patriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange con- trols do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central Afri- can Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are consid- ered foreign countries. The contracting of forward exchange cover re- quires the prior authorization of the External Rela- tions Directorate in the Ministry of Finance. Such cover may be provided for payments for permitted imports and for the currency stipulated in the com- mercial contract. The maturity period must not ex- ceed one or three months, depending on the nature of the goods involved, and it is not renewable. There is no official scheme for currency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt servicing. irThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo- Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Relations Directorate. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, finan- cial institutions, the Postal Administration, and no- taries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Admin- istration, or authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Since Niger has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current pay- ments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in foreign currencies, or in French francs, through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by an authorized bank's foreign correspon- dent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident ac- counts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authoriza- tion, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports are free of licensing requirements. Imports of eyeglasses, masonry paint, soap, ce- ment, and certain printed cotton fabrics are subject to protective tariffs. Other products are subject to 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 NIGER customs tariffs, ranging from 2.3 percent to 71 per- cent. All import monopolies and quasi-monopolies (de facto monopolies and exclusive trading contracts), with the exception of imports of petroleum prod- ucts, were abolished during the second half of 1985. In particular, since October 1, 1985, the Societe na- tionale de commerce et de production du Niger (COPRONIGER) no longer maintains a monopoly on the importation of specified commodities, including salt, cigarettes, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. at the border. Foreign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or until eight days before the shipment date if the goods are covered by documentary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Relations Directorate, which, for certain transactions, has delegated its powers to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip (CFAF 50,000 for chil- dren under 10 years), which they may take up to twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Niger must be surrendered within eight days to an authorized bank. Foreigners working in Niger may transfer savings from their salaries with the prior approval of the External Relations Directorate; they are nor- mally limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger trans- fers are permitted, however, against presentation of supporting documents. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account, in addition to their travel allocation. Residents traveling to other Operations Account countries may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes but, when traveling to an Oper- ations Account country outside the WAMU, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresi- dent travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,2 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign cur- rency traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of rice and paddy to all countries require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economic Pro- motion. Exports of millet and sorghum are pro- hibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des produits vivriers du Niger (OPVN). On July 10, 1990, the export license requirement for peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain other im- ported items was abolished. All other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Ac- count countries may be made freely. Exports of do- mestic products and imported commodities to other countries require an exchange commitment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Pro- ceeds from exports, regardless of the buying coun- try, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank within one month of the due date. All exports, regardless of destination, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered within two months of the due date or the date 2This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 357 of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any for- eign currency in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital transactions between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require approval by the exchange control authority and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward investment, and over the issuance, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization from the Min- ister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Govern- ment, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special con- trols are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate development operations abroad; these special con- trols also apply to France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. All the special provi- sions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance;3 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger;4 must be declared to the Minister of Fi- nance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying con- trol of a company or an enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not ex- ceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repay- ment of a foreign loan constituting a direct invest- ment is subject to the same formalities as the liqui- dation of a direct investment; the repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loans themselves were subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted cer- tain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968 and its amendments. The facilities granted under the previous Investment Code have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concerning non- discrimination between Nigerien nationals and for- eign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Niger. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 358 NIGER Such treatment may be accorded under two dif- ferent regimes, the approval regime and the agree- ment regime. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. July 10. The system of import licenses was abol- ished, and all remaining quantitative import restric- tions were replaced by customs tariffs ranging from 2.3 percent to 71 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds January 16. The number of products prohibited to be imported without special authorization was re- duced from five to one (petroleum). July 10. The export license requirement for peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cot- tonseed, and certain other imported items was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. The exchange system consists of interbank foreign exchange dealings (IFED) (authorized dealers), a daily allocation of foreign exchange to foreign ex- change dealers by the Central Bank of Nigeria, and dealings between banks and their customers. The Central Bank, after deducting the amounts required to make official external payments and allowing for a targeted increase in reserves, allocates official for- eign exchange receipts to the authorized dealers through a Dutch auction system. Successful bidders in the auction receive an allocation of foreign ex- change that is based on their relative size (measured in terms of capital). Authorized dealers are then free to sell foreign exchange to their customers for pur- poses of making payments abroad consistent with Nigeria's exchange regulations. The applicable ex- change rate for each authorized dealer is based on the rate quoted by that dealer on that day; they must sell foreign exchange obtained through the market (or directly from customers) at a margin of not more than 1 percent between the buying and selling rates. Foreign exchange bureaus (FEB) that can freely buy foreign currency notes from and sell them to their clients and, to a lesser extent, only buy trav- eler's checks from their clients, have been in opera- tion since August 1989. The exchange rate in this market differs from the rate in the IFED. On Decem- ber 31,1990, the average central rate in the FEB was N = 9.0 = US$1, and the average rate of the FEB was about N = 10.3 - US$1. Forward exchange transactions at market- determined rates are permitted between foreign exchange dealers and their customers. These transactions must be the coun terpart of an under- lying import or export transaction. Approved forms "M" and their relative letters of credit are valid for six months in the f irst instance. Autho- rized foreign exchange dealers are allowed to ex- tend the validity of approved forms and their rela- tive letters of credit for a maximum period of an additional six months without referr ing to the Central Bank. Any request for fu r th er extension must be re fe r red to the Central Bank for approval. The Central Bank of Nigeria, however, does not engage in forward exchange transactions. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for transfers of capital abroad; for remittances of profits and dividends; for granting "approved status" to nonresident invest- ments in Nigeria; and for approving any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of foreign exchange regulations. All licensed commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Cen- tral Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted for the transactions men- tioned above to the Ministry of Finance. Hotels and rest houses are allowed to receive payments of hotel bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency from travelers to Nigeria. Private sector foreign exchange receipts must be repatriated to Nigeria and may be sold in the IFED or to the FEB, or may be retained in Domiciliary Accounts with authorized dealers in Nigeria; they are not required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. The Federal Ministry of Trade administers trade regulations. Arrears are maintained with respect to some ex- ternal payments falling due on transactions entered into before the introduction of the two-tier foreign exchange market, which was abolished on July 2, 1987. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign cur- rency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries may be received in Export Proceeds Domiciliary Ac- counts, in any foreign currency that is freely ex- changeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the central banks of the member states of the Community of West African states (Be- nin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) are normally made through the West African Clear- ing House in West African Units of Account (WAUA). 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 NIGERIA Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of resident and nonresi- dent accounts: External Accounts, Nonresident Ac- counts, Domiciliary Accounts, and Blocked Ac- counts. External Accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and in- ternational organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of for- eign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in Nonresident Accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from ser- vices rendered locally, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Domiciliary Accounts may be funded by residents with foreign exchange derived from external sources, but not with foreign exchange purchases in the IFED. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which funds that are blocked by directives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Act are credited. Imports and Import Payments Import licensing was abolished with the introduc- tion of the FEM on September 29, 1986. However, the importation of some 16 items is prohibited. These include cigarettes, poultry (except day-old chicks), vegetables, fresh fruit, eggs, textile fabrics, beer, fresh milk, rice and rice products, maize and maize products, wheat and wheat products, min- eral water, and all sparkling wine. All imports valued at US$5,000 (c. & f.) or more, except those specifically exempted by the Govern- ment, are subject to preshipment inspection to en- sure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct quality and quantity according to the contracts and that only the normal price of that product in the country of supply is paid as well as the correct import duty.1 Unless a "Clean Report of Findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, for- eign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. aThe following items are exempt from the inspection require- ment: gold; precious stones; works of art; explosives and pyrotechnic products; ammunition; implements of war; live ani- mals; fresh, chilled, frozen, or canned fruits and vegetables; scrap metals; household and personal effects, including used motor vehicles; parcel post or samples; and petroleum and re- fined petroleum products. Payment for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit is made by the overseas correspondents on behalf of Nigerian banks, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspon- dents. However, such payment is made on the un- derstanding that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents relating to the imported goods are lodged by importers with the authorized dealer as agents of the Nigerian Gov- ernment within 21 days of negotiation of the spec- ified documents. Bills of entry (for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit) must be submitted to the authorized dealer within 90 days of negotiation and payment by overseas correspondent banks. For all other means of payment, the full set of docu- ments, evidencing the receipt of the goods in Nigeria, must be submitted to the authorized dealer. Delivery of foreign exchange for a valid pur- chase (spot) order must take place within 3 working days of the date of the purchase contract. Payments for Invisibles Nigeria does not maintain restrictions on most payments for invisibles. Basic allowances are pro- vided for some payments. As with imports, verifica- tion is on an ex post basis —that is, depending on the payments arrangements, based on documentation obtained after the purchase of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for tourist travel is US$500 a year, and for business travel, US$5,000 a trip for an enterprise. Payments for international air tickets are to be made in the naira by residents. Hotels are allowed to accept settlement of hotel bills and incidental ex- penses in foreign currency from travelers to Nigeria, who are required to settle their bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency. However, where there is documentary evidence that an ade- quate amount of foreign currency has been ex- changed into local currency at any licensed bank or bureau de change, payment in local currency must be accepted in settlement of hotel bills by foreign visitors to Nigeria. Remittances abroad by expatri- ate residents of up to 75 percent of net salary after tax are considered by authorized dealers subject to documentation requirements. Final balance ap- plications involving the transfer of accumulated sav- ings are considered subject to the approved guide- lines and confirmation by the Central Bank that the expatriate concerned had not previously been granted his final balance entitlement. The exportation of naira in excess of N = 100 is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 361 Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of African antiques, works of art, and objects used (or that have been used) in African ceremonies is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of beans, raw hide and skins, raw palm kernel, cassava, maize, rice, yam tubers, products derived from these seven product items, and exports of all imported food items are pro- hibited. Exports of unrefined gold and petroleum products require an export license. Exports of petro- leum are handled by the Nigerian National Petro- leum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. Foreign exchange receipts from private sector ex- ports may be sold freely in the FEM only to the receiving bank or retained in Domiciliary Accounts; all previous requirements for surrender to the Cen- tral Bank were abolished, with effect from Septem- ber 29, 1986. Proceeds from Invisibles For statistical purposes only, foreign currency im- ports of the equivalent of US$5,000 and more must be declared. The importation of naira in excess of the maximum N = 100, which is intended to assist residents to settle expenses immediately following their return to Nigeria, is prohibited. Capital Applications for capital transfers abroad are ap- proved by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Eco- nomic Development subject to satisfactory docu- mentation, and transfers are effected through the FEM. Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled cor- porations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contract- ing of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or com- pany, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and nego- tiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or expatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization De- cree of 1972, as amended in February 1974, July 1976, January 1977, and January 1989. Nonresi- dents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and dividends. Reinvestment of remittable divi- dends is allowed without the requirement of match- ing capital import. However, the granting of ap- proved status for such investment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The granting of approved status is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, bank credit, or lo- cally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. Foreign-owned companies and banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. To facilitate the inflow of direct capital invest- ment, the Industrial Development and Coordinat- ing Committee (IDCC) deals with all matters relat- ing to approval for direct capital investment, subject to the provisions of the Nigerian Enterprises Promo- tion Decree, 1977. Applications for the remittance of profits, dividends, etc., in respect of capital invest- ment made through the IFED are considered by the Federal Ministry of Finance and approved subject to documentation requirements. Funds so approved are repatriated through the FEM. In July 1988, the Central Bank of Nigeria pub- lished guidelines for an external debt conversion ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 362 NIGERIA program for Nigeria and established a Debt Conver- sion Program (DCP) to be supervised by a Debt Conversion Committee (DCC) appointed by the Federal Government. The DCC and DCP regulate the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt in- struments at a discount and the disposition of the naira proceeds of conversions of such debt. Eligible instruments were initially defined as uninsured trade debt denominated in promissory notes. When the rescheduling agreement with commer- cial banks was completed in early 1989, additional instruments representing debt to commercial banks were made eligible for the debt conversion provi- sions. All legitimate holders of promissory notes/ debt instruments are eligible to apply to the DCC for debt conversion provided that the foreign ex- change used to acquire the instruments originated from abroad and not from foreign exchange pur- chases in Nigeria. Eligible uses for the naira proceeds from debt conversion are (1) conversion to cash for the pur- pose of making a gift/grant to Nigerian entities; (2) conversion for expansion or recapitalization of investments in privatized enterprises; and (3) con- version for investment in completely new projects. The DCC evaluates each application and deter- mines eligibility for participation in an auction to be conducted by the Central Bank. The amounts and timing of the auction are determined by the DCC. Restrictions on remittances of redemption pro- ceeds and incomes arising therefrom are (1) inter- est income, profits/dividends, patent license fees, and other invisibles connected with approved pro- jects under the DCP may not be repatriated for a minimum period of five years from the date of re- lease of redemption proceeds for actual investment or five years after such profits/dividends are made or paid, whichever is later; (2) any capital proceeds arising from subsequent disposal of the investment made under the program may not be repatriated for a minimum period of ten years after effective invest- ment of the proceeds; repatriation of capital after ten years may not exceed 20 percent a year. Gold With the permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not al- lowed, without special permission, to hold or ac- quire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the importation of gold coins requires an import license. Imports of gold coins and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement December 14. The operations of the foreign ex- change market were modified to make it more re- sponsive to market forces. Under the new system, authorized dealers would receive an allocation of foreign exchange through a Dutch auction, which would be based on their relative size (measured in terms of capital). Imports and Import Payments January 1. The following changes were introduced in the import tariff regimes: (1) the import duties on starch were increased to 200 percent from 35 percent, on batteries, to 200 percent from 75 percent, and on fluorescent tubes and glass shells, to 200 percent from 40 percent; (2) polypropylene primary backing mate- rial and fiber rope were removed from the prohibited list; (3) the import duties on automotive filters were increased to 25 percent from 10 percent, on tooth brushes, to 70 percent from 35 percent, on hinges, to 50 percent from 30 percent, on staples, to 40 percent from 20 percent, on paper clips, to 40 percent from 20 percent, on wheelbarrows, to 50 percent from 15 percent, on granules, to 35 percent from 25 per- cent, on ink and pigment, to 30 percent from 20 per- cent, on jewelry, to 200 percent from 100 percent, on motorcycles, to 30 percent from 20 percent, on bicycle frames, to 50 percent from 30 percent, on cold rolled tubes, to 40 percent from 20 percent, and on alumi- num fin stock, to 35 percent from 20 percent; (4) the import duties on tin plate were reduced to 15 percent from 20 percent, on sugar, to 40 percent from 50 per- cent, on paper-making machinery, to 10 percent from 30 percent, on machine tools, to 10 percent from 20 percent, on machine sleeves, to 10 percent from 20 percent, on tissue paper, to 10 percent from 20 per- cent, on carbonizing base paper, to 15 percent from 20 percent, on pulp, to 10 percent from 20 percent, on wood in the rough, to 5 percent from 10 percent, on spare parts for skips, to 5 percent from 10 percent, and on live animals, to zero from 30 percent; (5) im- ports under technical assistance by Voluntary and Religious Administrations, and of foodstuff pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 363 duced in the territories adjoining Nigeria were no longer exempt from import duties; (6) drugs, medi- caments, and hospital and surgical equipment im- ported by the governments of the federation were exempt from import duties, while all other imports by government agencies through private com- panies were made subject to import duties; and (7) government contracts, with the exception of items listed in the Tariff Decree No. 1 of 1988 and those approved on or before December 31, 1989, were no longer exempt from import duties. January 1. The Government adopted the ECOWAS trade liberalization scheme approved by the au- thority of the Economic Community of West African States. The scheme provides that import duties on 25 products will be reduced annually until they are eliminated at the end of the fourth year of operation of the scheme. September 15. The import duty on newsprint was reduced to 10 percent from 60 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds „ January 1, 1991. Exports of cocoa beans and raw palm kernel were prohibited, and only exports of cocoa processed into cocoa butter, cocoa cake, cocoa powder, cocoa liquor, palm kernel oil, palm kernel cake, and other derivatives of palm kernel were allowed. Exports of raw hides and skins were also prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The external value of the krone is pegged to the European Currency Unit (ECU) at NKr 7.9940 per ECU 1. The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations (plus or minus 2.25 per- cent) around its central value. The exchange rate of the krone for the U.S. dollar, the principal interven- tion currency, is quoted daily, together with those of 18 other currencies (and the ECU), on the basis of the market rates. On December 31,1990, the middle rate quoted against the U.S. dollar was NKr 5.9075. According to the Norwegian foreign exchange regulations, a forward contract includes ordinary forward transactions, options, currency futures, and currency swaps with or without exchange of principal. An interest rate contract involves the ex- change on a future day of interest rate terms in one and the same currency. Interest rate swaps, options, futures, and the like fall within this category. Resi- dents (Norwegian companies and private individ- uals) may freely enter into forward and interest rate contracts with Norwegian foreign exchange banks and nonresidents for protection against exchange rate risk. Residents are allowed to open accounts denomi- nated in Norwegian kroner with foreign banks without restriction, but they must notify the Bank of Norway. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Customs in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. Unless specifically prohibited, all transactions are permitted without restriction, pro- vided that they are made through authorized banks where required. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Af- fairs and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agri- culture or the Ministry of Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Norway notified the Fund, on September 10, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner in Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Con- vertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all foreign countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any coun- try, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Nor- way of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to resi- dents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Authorized banks are permit- ted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresi- dents without restriction, but such accounts must be reported to the Bank of Norway.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods do not require an import li- cense, but all imports from South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Follow- ing Norway's accession to the previous Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) on July 1, 1984, the global quotas formerly in force under Article XIX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) have been phased out and replaced by bilateral agreements, which have been concluded with 18 textile suppliers. The agreements entered into un- der the current MFA are considerably more liberal than those that Norway had under the previous MFA. Norway has been able to maintain its policy of not introducing restraints on imports from develop- ing countries. Besides textile products, there are licensing requirements for footwear from Taiwan Province of China. With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are re- stricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list Residents with bothr income and expenditures in foreign cur- rencies may also open foreign exchange accounts at domestic banks without restriction. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 365 contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and sec- ondhand ships and certain categories of fishing ves- sels may be imported freely, but special permission is required in order to ensure compliance with the regulations regarding payments in advance of deliv- ery. The importation of radio equipment and radio control equipment is subject to approval by the Di- rectorate of Telecommunications. The importation of a small number of goods is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, pharmaceutical prod- ucts, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Direct trade credits may be extended for import (and export) financing without a license from the Bank of Norway. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. There is no limit on the amount of (physical) means of payment a person may take out from Norway, but amounts exceeding the equivalent of NKr 25,000 must be reported to the customs authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports val- ued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declaration or export license; for arms and ammunition this limit is NKr 500, and for fish and fish products, NKr 1,000. In principle, all ex- change from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no limit on the amount of (physi- cal) means of payment a person may bring into Nor- way, but amounts exceeding the equivalent of NKr 25,000 must be reported to the customs au- thorities. In principle, receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. A person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency and other means of payment. Capital quirement and kept abroad must be deposited with a Norwegian bank or stockbroker. Foreign exchange banks, exposure-regulated financial institutions, in- surance companies, and stockbrokers dealing in foreign securities on their own account are exempt from the stockbroker and deposit requirements. However, foreign exchange banks and financial in- stitutions subject to exposure regulation must sub- mit reports on their net foreign currency position to the Bank of Norway. Net positions of up to 10 per- cent of the financial institutions' equity and subor- dinated loan capital may be taken in individual cur- rencies, and the aggregate position must be kept within 20 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. There is no limit on purchases by residents of foreign currency bonds, and residents are permit- ted to purchase foreign bonds and certificates. Pur- chases of life insurance policies abroad by residents require a license. Nonresidents may purchase Nor- wegian bonds and certificates without restriction. There is no restriction on the importation into or exportation from Norway of securities. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relat- ing to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coins are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 20 percent. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement June 27. Norwegian companies and private in- dividuals were allowed to enter into forward con- tract in foreign currency with residents and nonresidents. October 19. The Norwegian krone was pegged to the ECU at NKr 7.9940 = ECU 1, with margins of 2.25 percent around its central value. Norwegian companies and private individuals are permitted to make direct investments abroad; direct investments in the form of share purchases must, however, be made through Norwegian stock- brokers. Securities subject to the stockbroker re- Administration of Control June 27. New foreign exchange regulations were introduced under which all transactions that are not explicitly prohibited would be permitted. The man- datory licensing of foreign exchange transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 NORWAY was abolished, but the obligation to report to the Bank of Norway was tightened. Payments for Invisibles June 27. The limit on the exportation of (physical) means of payments was removed; amounts exceed- ing the equivalent of NKr 25,000 must, however, be reported to the customs authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles June 27. The limit on the importation of (physical) means of payments was removed; amounts exceed- ing the equivalent of NKr 25,000 must, however, be reported to the customs authorities. Capital June 27. The following changes were introduced: (1) Norwegian companies and private individuals were permitted to make direct investments abroad (direct investments in the form of share purchases must, however, be made through Norwegian stock- brokers; (2) securities that are subject to the stock- broker requirement and kept abroad must be depos- ited with a Norwegian bank or stockbroker. How- ever, no restrictions apply to the importation into or exportation from Norway of securities. Foreign ex- change banks, exposure-regulated financial institu- tions, insurance companies, and stockbrokers deal- ing in foreign securities on their own account are exempted from the stockbroker and deposit re- quirements; (3) limits on purchases by residents of foreign currency bonds were removed; (4) resi- dents were permitted to purchase foreign bonds and certificates, and nonresidents were permitted to purchase Norwegian bonds and certificates; and (5) foreign exchange banks and financial institu- tions subject to exposure regulation must submit reports on their net foreign currency position to the Bank of Norway. Net positions of up to 10 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken in individual currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept within 20 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement Exports and Export Proceeds The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 - US$2.6008. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1990, the rates were RO 1 = US$2.6042 (buying) and RO 1 - US$2.5974 (sell- ing). The commercial banks' rates for other curren- cies are based on market rates in London. There are arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or commercial banking sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19,1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, but there is no exchange control legisla- tion in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited, and the use of their currencies is also prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of a few commodities are pro- hibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Also, seasonal bans are imposed on the im- portation of fruits and vegetables that are grown locally. In addition, companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are pro- hibited from importing such products as long as the domestic refinery is deemed by Oman to be produc- ing the specified products in quantities that satisfy local demand. Licenses are required for imports. Foreign exchange for payments abroad for autho- rized imports may be obtained freely. All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of short- age in Oman. All other commodities may be ex- ported freely. No requirements are attached to re- ceipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency in- volved. Exports of Maria Theresa dollars are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or on payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior ap- proval. Such investment is regulated by a foreign investment law enacted in June 1983, and by a law for the Organization and Encouragement of Indus- try, which came into effect on January 15, 1979. Under the 1983 foreign investment law, joint ven- tures are offered a five-year tax holiday, renewable for an additional period of five years under certain conditions; the Oman Development Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferen- tial interest rates for project financing in the petro- leum, agricultural, fishery, and mineral sectors; and assistance in preinvestment research can also be given. Foreign capital is encouraged to be directed to large production or manufacturing projects. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resi- dent and nonresident banks may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 OMAN any form without a license and without payment of customs duties or taxes. Transactions involving Is- rael and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on April I, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) sets on a daily basis the rate at which it will purchase and sell U.S. dollars in its dealings with authorized dealers. On December 31, 1990, the State Bank's spot buying aiid selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 21.9000 and PRs 22.0095, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates forward up to 6 months were PRs 21.9000 and PRs 22.8308 per US$1, respectively; the buying and selling rates for- ward up to 12 months were PRs 21.2430 and PRs 23.6520 per US$1, respectively. All foreign ex- change transactions with the public must be con- ducted through authorized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In the calculation of spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.50 percent is provided on the previous day's closing buying and selling rates for the currency concerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified cur- rencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, ei- ther spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of member countries for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward con- tracts reported by authorized dealers. Forward exchange cover in respect of private for- eign currency loans and suppliers' credits, as well as foreign currency loans under the pay-as-you-earn (PAYE) scheme, is covered by the State Bank under the Government's scheme for exchange risk cover, on payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rates in Pakistan and international mar- kets; the fee was 5.13 percent on January 20, 1991 and 5.44 percent on March 20, 1991. In addition, forward exchange cover in respect of repatriable foreign currency loans for working capital require- ments is allowed by the State Bank upon payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rate in Pakistan and the interest rate payable on the loan; the fee was raised from 6 percent in February 1990 to 7.5 percent in October 1990. Foreign Exchange Bearer Certificates (FEBCs) may be purchased in foreign exchange by residents and nonresidents. Denominated in Pakistan rupees, FEBCs can be freely brought into and taken out of the country, can be encashed at any time in Pakistan rupees or in foreign exchange at the ex- change rate prevailing at the time of the encash- ment, and may be used by residents to undertake any current or international capital transactions. FEBCs are available in denominations ranging from PRs 500 to PRs 100,000. The amount payable in terms of Pakistan rupees is 14.5 percent higher than the certificate's face value one year after issuance of the certificate, 31 percent after two years, and 52 percent after three years. Accrued interest is not prorated for certificates that are encashed in mid- year. At the end of March 1991, the certificates were quoted at a premium of 9.2 percent. In April 1991, Dollar Bearer Certificates (DBCs) were introduced. DBCs are intended to supplement the existing FEBC system by allowing asset holders to hold a one-year maturity instrument that is similar to the FEBC but denominated in U.S. dollars. Like FEBCs, DBCs may be purchased by anyone (whether resi- dent in Pakistan or abroad) with foreign exchange, and no questions are asked about the source of funds used for their purchase. The return on DBCs is linked to the LIBOR and is currently a/4 of 1 per- cent over LIBOR. DBCs and the accrued return on them can be encashed either in foreign currency or in local currency at the official exchange rate. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a num- ber of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender require- ments, and to sell foreign exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for issuing licenses and permits, as well as for implementing import and export pol- icies. Certain foreign trade transactions are con- ducted through various state-trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (RECP). 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 PAKISTAN Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees to or from nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified coun- tries are channeled through special accounts. Let- ters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in foreign currency or in Pakistan rupees for credit to a nonresident bank account of the country of the beneficiary or of the country of origin or shipment of goods. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in nonconvertible currencies. Trade in specified products with Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. is settled through special nonconvertible accounts,1 and trade with Sweden and Finland is settled through convertible accounts. The special accounts with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. are maintained in noncon- vertible U.S. dollars. Payments to and from the Islamic Republic of Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the re- spective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU, other than the Islamic Republic of Iran (i.e., Bangla- desh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, and Sri Lanka), in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their prod- ucts) are effected through the ACU in Asian Mone- tary Units (AMUs) or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved in such trans- actions. No exchange control is exercised over trans- actions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Payments between Pakistan and Israel and South Africa are suspended. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Foreign Currency Accounts. Residents of Pakistan are allowed to open and maintain Foreign Currency Accounts (FCAs) with banks in Pakistan on the same basis as nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, trav- eler's checks, foreign currency notes, and proceeds from FEBCs. Sources of acquisition of foreign ex- change are not required to be revealed. However, receipts from exports of goods and services, earn- ings of overseas branches of companies resident in Pakistan, and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be cred- ited to these accounts. Balances held in these ac- counts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of withdrawal. These accounts can be retained on a permanent basis, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months and up to three years) is fixed by the State Bank with the approval of the Government. The rates are based on the Eurodollar deposit rate of Barclays Bank, London. The margins over the Eurodollar deposit rates for deposits range from 3/4 of 1 percent (for three-month deposits) to 15/s percent (for three-year deposits). Nonresident Accounts. The accounts of individ- uals, firms, or companies resident outside Pakistan are designated as Nonresident Accounts.2 Autho- rized banks are permitted to open Nonresident Ac- counts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank in cases where the ac- counts are to be opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the ac- counts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, and firms and corporations and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open FCAs may open FCAs with banks in Pakistan without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. There are no restrictions on the curren- cies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and in- terest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account permanently. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Authorized dealers under the FCAs facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from banks operating abroad, including financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least 1 Balances on the accounts maintained with Czechoslovakia and Hungary are settled within 90 days. 2Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of indi- viduals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresi- dent rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 371 US$10 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least one year. Imports and Import Payments Annual Import Policy Orders (IPOs) outline the regulations that apply to imports. IPOs divide im- ports into two categories: prohibited and negative imports, and restricted imports. All items that do not appear on either the prohibited/negative lists or the restricted lists are freely importable. The pro- hibited and negative lists in principle consist of items banned for religious, health, or luxury con- sumption reasons; capital and consumer goods banned temporarily for protective reasons; inter- mediate goods used mainly in the production of capital and consumer goods that are banned for protective reasons; and goods that are banned in accordance with international agreements.3 The restricted list of imports in the 1990/91 IPO consists of four categories: (1) 12 items or categories of goods importable only by the public sector; (2) 5 items or categories of goods impprtable only by industrial consumers; (3) 33 items or categories of goods whose importation is subject to specified re- quirements, such as a permit by a public sector agency or fulfillment of technical specifications; and (4) 11 items or categories of goods importable only from specified sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U.S. PL. 480 program. The negative list under the 1990/91 IPO included 118 items. Im- ports of some items on the negative list are permit- ted under certain circumstances, principally by ex- port industries, public sector agencies, or under the personal baggage scheme. Import licenses are not required for freely import- able items. Importers of these items can approach banks directly to open letters of credit and at the same time pay the 6 percent import license fee (pre- viously collected by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports). All other imports require a license, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification. Licenses are issued on the basis of notification by the Chief Con- troller of Imports and Exports.4 Generally, licenses remain valid for 12 months, but when machinery is specifically manufactured, licenses can be obtained with a validity period of up to 24 months. Licenses for imports are subject to a fee of 6 percent of the value of the license, payable at the time of issue. The import regime is subject to certain other sup- plementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. The private sector can import 571 specified items or categories of goods directly from India. (2) Special provisions exist for the importa- tion by export industries of items on the restricted (tied) list from untied sources and items on the negative list. (3) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 30,000 or more must be members of approved trade organizations. (4) The maximum c. & f. values for which licenses for the importation of ma- chinery and millwork can be issued against various sources of financing to different categories are (a) up to PRs 20 million for commercial importers; (b) up to PRs 1 billion for new units or expansion of existing units that are likely to cost less than PRs 1,000 million and that do not fall within the specified list of industries.5 In the case of units falling within a specified list of industries, the limit of PRs 1 billion applies, subject to the condition that such units are duly sanctioned by the competent authority; (c) up to PRs 20 million for balancing modernization and replacement of existing units, excluding the textile industry; and (d) from PRs 10 million to PRs 40 million for balancing, moderniza- tion, and replacement of a textile unit, depending on the type and capacity of the machinery. Procure- ment of plant and equipment of higher value not falling under a specified list of industries and hav- ing less than 50 percent foreign equity is effected by the financing institutions, with the approval of the Ministry of Industry. Imports are permitted against either letters of credit or contract. (1) In the case of licenses issued against cash, letters of credit must be established within 180 days of the registration of the license with the State Bank, failing which the license will be deemed to have expired. (The time limit of 180 days may be curtailed in the case of import licenses for items notified by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.) (2) In the case of licenses issued 3 Some of the currently prohibited imports fall outside of these categories (i.e., some prohibited items are not produced in Pakistan and they do not fit into the category of goods banned for religious, health, or luxury consumption reasons). 4Licensing restrictions apply only to arms and ammunition. Industries on the specified list include arms and ammunition; security printing, currency and mint; high explosives; radioac- tive substances; alcohol and beverage industries based on im- ported concentrates; manufactures of automobiles; tractors and farm machinery; and petroleum-blending plants. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 PAKISTAN against loans or credits, letters of credit must be established within 180 days of the date of issue of the license except as provided for in Clause VI of paragraph 2.7 of the IPO. For imports under barter, the letters of credit must be opened within such period as may be specified in the relevant public notice issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. (3) In the case of imports under tied loans or credits, which require the contracts to be ap- proved by the Government of Pakistan, the im- porter must submit the contract within 120 days of the date of issue of the license and must open a letter of credit within 60 days of the date of final approval of the contract, failing which the license will be deemed to have expired. Oil and natural gas exploration and producing companies and refin- eries are free to open letters of credit for the impor- tation of crude oil and petroleum products within the validity period of the underlying license. Remit- tances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases —for example, machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manufacturers —the State Bank may authorize ad- vance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Authorized dealers may also make advance remit- tances, without the prior approval of the State Bank, for imports of books, magazines, and journals by commercial importers. No payments are permitted for goods originating in or consigned from Israel or South Africa. Import surcharges at the rate of 7 percent ad valorem and Iqra surcharges at the rate of 5 percent ad valorem are levied on the c . i .f. value of imports. A number of items, including medicine, books, fer- tilizer, duty-free baggage, kerosene, light diesel, and fuel oil, are exempt from the surcharges. The elements of surcharges paid on imported raw mate- rials for manufactures of export goods are also in- cluded in the duty drawback paid on such exports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel or South Africa. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that ac- corded to the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance com- panies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a max- imum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except for cotton and rice, for which the maximum is 1 per- cent. The maximum percentage for sporting goods, surgical instruments, cutlery, leather goods, ready- made garments and other textile made-ups, car- pets, and plastic manufactures is 7 percent; for engi- neering goods, it is 10 percent; and for books, jour- nals, and magazines, it is 33a/3 percent. The remittance of dividends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Govern- ment's approval. With the approval of the State Bank, profits of branches of foreign companies and banks may be remitted to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistan income tax authorities. The remittance of profits by certain branches of foreign companies does not require the approval of the State Bank. Authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange up to US$1,000 a person every two years for private travel irrespective of the number of days spent abroad;6 this allocation can be used in installments. In addition to this quota, each traveler is allowed US$50 a trip. Remittances for undergraduate stud- ies abroad and correspondence courses are unre- stricted. Foreign exchange for business travel, med- ical treatment, education, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Stu- dent maintenance and book allowances for gradu- ate study abroad are up to US$8,970 a year. Student allowances can be drawn through authorized dealers without requiring state bank approval. Sep- arate allowances, denominated in pounds sterling, apply to studies in the United Kingdom. Al- lowances for professional training abroad range from US$750 a month for junior executives to US$1,200 a month for senior executives. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods with annual export earn- ings in excess of PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services in excess of PRs 0.25 million are entitled to a renewable one-year blanket permission for the pur- chase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$200 a day up to US$6,000 for each business trip. In addition, business travelers can settle credit card charges up to US$100 a day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encashment of FEBCs. Foreigners may make family remittances of up to 50 percent of net income or US$750 a month, whichever is larger; Pakistani nationals are 6The allowances for travel to Bangladesh and India are less; there is no such allowance for travel to Afghanistan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 373 not allowed to make remitances abroad for family maintenance purposes. Persons leaving Pakistan (foreigners and Pakistani nationals) may take out with them foreign currency without limit. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any desti- nation and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited.7 Exports of most other com- modities are allowed freely. However, certain specified exports are subject to export quotas (for example, maize, gram, camels, and split gram), quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes), or minimum ex- port prices (for example, raw cotton, surgical in- struments, and onyx blocks). The CECP is respon- sible for the exportation of cotton, although the private sector has also been allowed into the ex- port trade. Cotton is also exported to India with- out involvement of any public sector agency; Basmati and other rice are exported through the RECP, but private traders are also allowed. Ce- ment is exported th rough the State Cement Cor- poration. Chemical fertilizers can also be exported by private sector units. Trade samples that can be exported w i thout prior approval f rom the State Bank are limited to the equivalent of US$1,000; the limit for leather garments is 50 pieces. The State Bank requires a declaration by the ex- porter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method and within the pre- scribed time except for goods manufactured in the export-processing zones. The authorized dealer cer- tifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Export- ers may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The sur- render of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports, with the exception of 24 specified Prohibited exports include fe r rous and non fe r rous metals (excluding iron and steel m anu f a c tu r ed goods), edible oils, grains, gur, sari and jaggary powder, dairy products, certain live animals, an imal fa ts, bee f, mu t ton, timber, certain hides and skins, pulses and beans, wet-blue lea ther made f rom cowhides and calfhides, wheat b ran, wheat straw, charcoal, pepper, certain animal products, intoxicants, certain seeds, wooden crates, arms, ammun i t ion, explosives, fissionable ma- terial, maps and charts, paper waste, unf in ished hockey sticks and blades, human skeletons, all imported goods, and antiquities. items8 based on irrevocable letters of credit or f i rm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme,9 or, alternatively, based on the exporter's pe r fo rmance in the pre- vious year on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. A rebate of 55 percent is available against the tax payable on income attributable to the sales proceeds from exports of goods manufactured in Pakistan. For value-added items, such as engineering prod- ucts, garments, leather and leather products, textile products, and hand-knotted carpets and rugs, the rate of rebate is 75 percent. Industrial units estab- lished under the PAYE scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 percent of the f .o.b. value of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Under the Open Bond Man- ufacturing Scheme, raw materials and intermediate goods imported or purchased locally and used for manufacturing for exports are exempted from pay- ments of import duties and local taxes. At present, the following industries are covered by this scheme: textiles and clothing (other than spinning); leather and leather manufactures; chemicals and phar- maceuticals; engineering and electronics; ceramics; furniture; sporting goods; and surgical instruments. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, cotton yarn, oil cakes, molasses, semitanned hides and skins, buffalos and buffalo calves, sheep and goats, crushed bones, private sector exports of Basmati rice, and onyx blocks. The exportation of cows and calves is banned. Exporters who are members of export houses may retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for export promotion and related costs. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange de- rived from invisibles must be surrendered within three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 100 in Pakistan currency notes a person and PRs 5 in coins. There is no limitation on the importation of other 8The exceptions are raw cotton; cotton yarn; fish other than frozen and preserved; mutton and beef; petroleum products; crude vegetable material; wool and animal hair; crude animal material; feeds tuff for animals; all grains including grain flour; stone, sand, and gravel; waste and scrap of all kinds; fertilizer crude; oilseeds, nuts, and kernels; jewelry exported under the Entrustment Scheme; live animals; hides and skins; wet-blue leather; inorganic elements, oxides, etc.; crude minerals; works of art and antiques; all metals; fur skins; and wood in rough or squared form. 9Under specified conditions, authorized dealers may grant concessional finance without state bank approval and without an irrevocable letter of credit or firm export order. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 PAKISTAN currency notes and coins, except coins that are legal tender; these coins may be imported only up to the value of Rs (Indian) 5 a person at a time. Travel agents and tour agents are permitted to retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for marketing and related export promo- tion expenses. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are sub- ject to approval. To encourage industrial develop- ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector without conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditures will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restric- tion to the country of origin of the capital; (2) profits reinvested in approved industrial projects with the sanction of the Government may be treated as in- vestment for the purpose of subsequent repatria- tion; (3) appreciation of any capital investment un- der (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These re- patriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange, unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment proj- ect, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1,1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationaliza- tion of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may regis- ter their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transactions can be repatriated at any time, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the pur- pose of exchange control regulations on outward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of for- eign securities by Pakistani residents must be ap- proved by the State Bank. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals tem- porarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresi- dents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issuance, sale, or transfer of Pakistani securities, in favor of nonresident Pakistanis, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistani securities held by nonresident foreign nationals may be transferred to other nonresident foreign nationals against payments abroad, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to the transferor. General permission has also been granted to foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the Na- tional Investment Trust, subject to certain stipula- tions. General permission has been granted to pub- lic limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan to issue or transfer shares on a repatriable basis to a nonresident Pakistani national, a person with two nationalities (including Pakistani national), a foreign national, or a company incorporated outside Pakistan (exclud- ing branches in Pakistan of such companies and a company owned or controlled by a foreign govern- ment), provided that the issue price or purchase price as certified by a stock exchange broker is paid in foreign exchange either through a remittance of foreign currency from abroad or out of a Foreign Currency Account maintained by the subscriber in Pakistan. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances in blocked accounts may be invested in approved gov- ernment securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. Foreign banks functioning in Pakistan can under- write share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan, provided that the total value of shares so underwritten by them in each issue does not exceed 30 percent of the capital offered to the general public for subscription or 30 percent of its own paid-up capital and reserve, whichever is less. The foreign banks may also underwrite public issues of par- ticipation term certificates, term finance certificates, and "modaraba" certificates, provided that where terms and conditions of their issue grant the option to the holders to convert the securities into ordinary shares, the restriction of 30 percent of the total capi- tal offered to the general public would also apply. Pakistani nationals residing abroad have permis- sion to invest in new public share offers in Pakistan by remittance of foreign exchange or by debiting their Foreign Currency Accounts in Pakistan; divi- dends thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 375 may be transferred abroad, provided that tax, if applicable, is paid. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The exportation of gold is prohibited unless autho- rized by the State Bank; such permission is not nor- mally granted. Pakistani nationals coming from abroad are allowed to import up to 100 troy ounces of gold a person on each visit. Similarly, individual firms or companies who are residents of Pakistan are al- lowed to import up to 500 troy ounces at a time. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement During 1990 (and up to the end of April 1991), the exchange rate of the Pakistan rupee against the U.S. dollar was adjusted frequently. (On April 1, 1991, the spot and forward rates at which the State Bank transacted with authorized dealers were as follows): (In Pakistan rupees) Buying Spot and forward up to 6 months Forward up to 12 months Selling Forward up to 6 months Forward up to 12 months Spot 23.5000 22.7950 23.6175 24.4988 25.3800 The annual fees charged by the State Bank of Pakistan for the absorption of the exchange risk on private sector supplier's credits, guaranteed loans, and PAYE loans were adjusted from time to time. On December 31, 1990, the annual fees were 5.0 percent for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, and 5.2 percent for Japanese yen. (On April 30, 1991, the annual fees were 5.0 percent for deutsche mark and pounds sterling, 5.44 percent for U.S. dollars, 6.75 percent for Swiss francs, and 6 percent for Japanese yen.) The minimum rate of exchange risk coverage fee on repatriable loans was changed twice during the year. On December 31, 1990, this rate was 7.5 per- cent a year. Prescription of Currency January 8. The validity of the TCP/Sukab Com- modity Exchange Arrangement dated October 22, 1974 (for Program 1987) was extended up to June 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to Decem- ber 30, 1990 for completing shipments. January 8. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Barter Agreement dated October 20, 1988 (Barter No. 17) was extended up to June 30, 1990 for open- ing letters of credit and up to September 30,1990 for completing shipments. January 18. The validity of the TCP/Sukab Com- modity Exchange Arrangement dated October 22, 1974 (for Program 1988) was extended up to June 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to Septem- ber 30, 1990 for completing shipments. January 20. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Barter Arrangement dated January 20, 1987 (Barter No. 16) was fur ther extended up to January 31,1990 for opening letters of credit and up to April 30,1990 for completing shipments. January 22. The validity of the Pakistan-Poland Barter Agreement dated April 16, 1983 (Barter No. 15) was extended up to June 30, 1990 for open- ing letters of credit and up to September 30,1990 for completing shipments. March 22. Shipments against letters of credit opened under the following agreements were re- quired to be completed by no later than June 30, 1990: (1) TCP/Sukab Commodity Exchange Agree- ment dated October 22, 1974 (Programs 1987 and 1988). (2) Bulgaria Protocol dated October 20, 1988 (Barter No. 17); and (3) Poland Protocol dated April 16, 1983 (Barter No. 15). April 25. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Pro- tocol dated October 20, 1988 (Barter No. 17) was extended up to June 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1990 for completing shipments. July 15. The validity of the Pakistan- Czechoslovakia Barter Agreement dated Jan- uary 23, 1987 (Barter No. 22) was fur ther extended up to September 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to December 31, 1990 for completing shipments. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Barter Agreement dated October 20, 1988 (Barter No. 17) was extended up to September 30,1990 for opening letters of credit and up December 31, 1990 for com- pleting shipments. July 24. The terminal shipment date under the Pakistan-China Barter Agreement dated July 12, 1984 (Barter No. 13) was extended up to Septem- ber 30, 1990. August 6. The validity of the Pakistan-Hungary Protocol dated March 19, 1982 was not renewed; shipment had to be completed by September 30, 1990. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 PAKISTAN September 1. The validity of the Pakistan-U.S.S.R. Barter Agreement dated December 29, 1987 (Barter No. 23) was extended up to March 31, 1991 for opening letters of credit and up to June 30, 1991 for completing shipments. October 1. The Pakistan-China Barter Agreement (Barter No. 13) was terminated. September 20. The completion of shipments under the Pakistan-Poland Barter Agreement dated April 16, 1983 (Barter No. 15) was extended up to December 31, 1990. The Pakistan-People's Democratic Republic of Korea Barter Agreement was terminated. The validity of the Pakistan-Hungary Protocol dated March 19, 1982 (Barter No. 8) was extended up to December 31,1990 for completing shipments. Resident and Nonresident Accounts July 29. Authorized dealers were authorized to accept foreign currency deposits at maturities of 12 months, 2 years, and 3 years, at interest rates not exceeding by lk of 1 percent a year, 3/4 of 1 percent a year, and 1 percent a year, respectively, over 12 months at LIBOR quoted by Barclays Bank Ltd., London. December 1. Foreign Currency Accounts held in Pakistan by Pakistani nationals under the Foreign Currency Accounts Scheme could now be main- tained on a permanent basis af ter their return to Pakistan; previously, Pakistani nationals were al- lowed to hold these accounts for up to three years from the date of their arrival in Pakistan. Imports and Import Payments January 8. The rate of import duty on gold was reduced to 3 percent from 5 percent. March 19;. The 35 percent mandatory minimum margin requirement for opening import letters of credit was abolished. July 1. Forty-four items were transferred from the restricted import list (which previously contained 105 categories of items) to the free list of imports. These items included cinematograph films (3 items); 41 items that were subject to importation from specified sources under bilateral agreements; and firearms (3 items). At the same time, 4 items (drugs and psychotropic substances, canned foods, and petroleum oil and lubricating oils) were added to the restricted list. Ninety-eight items were transferred from the negative list of imports to the free list of imports, leaving 118 items on the negative list. The value ceilings on imports by actual users, and on imports of machinery and millwork against cash licenses, were increased by 20 percent and 25 per- cent, to PRs 30,000 and PRs 20 million, respectively. The limit on the value of machinery imports for initial installation or expansion was raised to PRs 100 million from PRs 80 million. The limit on the value of machinery imports for balancing, modernization, and replacement other than on textiles was raised to PRs 20 million from PRs 16 million. The value limit on machinery imports for balanc- ing, modernization, and replacement in the spin- ning sector was raised to PRs 40 million from PRs 10 million. December 1. Soybean oil was transferred from the list of restricted imports to the list of free imports. Payments for Invisibles February 24. The limit on the daily salary for technicians/experts employed in the private sector rendering technical services, such as supervision of installation, commissioning of plant, and training of personnel, was abolished. March 12. The permission to use credit card facili- ties was extended to business executives of firms/ companies other than exporters, provided that the firm/company is paying a minimum annual income tax of PRs 1 million. Exports and Export Proceeds March 22. Exports of stationery items, namely, pen- cils, ballpoint pens, carbon papers, sharpeners, and rubber bands (except geometry box) to Iraq were al- lowed under Pakistan's credit of US$50 million. July 1. Income tax exemptions of up to 75 percent (instead of 55 percent) were allowed for certain ex- ports of goods and services. July 16. The exportation of the following addi- tional items to Iraq was allowed under Pakistan's credit of US$50 million: aluminium cables, copper cables, and bathroom fittings. August 1. The private sector was permitted to export rice without restriction through the RECP. September 26. The procedure for exports of indige- nous precious and semiprecious stones (in rough and finished form) and gold jewelry from Pakistan to foreign countries was revised under the Export Promotion Bureau's Public Notice No. 2(36)88 (dated May 7, 1990). November 20. The existing regulations with re- spect to the drawing of bills of lading and other documents of title to the cargo by the Carrier Com- panies were liberalized with a view to enabling ex- porters to meet the requirements of the overseas importers and facilitating exports from Pakistan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 377 The Open Bond Manufacturing Scheme was amended to include duty-free imports of plant, ma- chinery, and spares that are not manufactured locally and that are used to set up manufacturing units in bond that exports 70 percent or more of its production in a given year in the following industrial sectors: textiles and clothing (other than spinning); leather and leather manufactures; chemicals and phar- maceuticals; engineering and electronics; ceramics; furniture; sports goods; and surgical instruments. from exports of goods and services, earnings of overseas branches of companies resident in Pakistan, and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be cred- ited to FCAs. Balances held in FCAs are freely trans- ferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of withdrawal. FCAs may be retained on a perma- nent basis, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months up to three years) is fixed by the State Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Imports and Import Payments July 1. Travel agents and tour operators were al- lowed to retain 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for marketing and related export promo- tion expenses. March 1. The import-licensing requirement for freely importable goods was abolished. April 3. Acetic anhydride was placed on the re- stricted list. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement April 22. DBCs were introduced. These certifi- cates, denominated in U.S. dollars and carrying one-year maturity, may be purchased by anyone without revealing the source of funds used for pur- chase. The return on DBCs is linked to LIBOR, and the rate is currently lk of 1 percent over LIBOR. DBCs and the accrued return on them can be en- cashed either in foreign currency or in local cur- rency at the official exchange rate. Payments for Invisibles February 4. The maximum amount of commission that could be paid abroad in connection with rice exports was raised to 5 percent from 1 percent. February 7. Foreign exchange was made available for all correspondence courses. February 11. The State Bank's prior approval for remitting profits by certain branches of foreign com- panies was no longer required. June 8. The limit on foreign exchange that resident Pakistani nationals can hold abroad was raised to US$1,000 from US$500 or its equivalent. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Exports and Export Proceeds February 13. Residents of Pakistan were allowed to open and maintain FCAs with banks in Pakistan on the same basis as nonresidents. FCAs may be cred- ited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, foreign currency notes, and proceeds from FEBCs. Sources of acquisition of foreign exchange are not required to be revealed. However, receipts January 31. The following changes were intro- duced: (1) the limit of trade samples that could be exported without prior approval was raised to US$1,000 from PRs 5,000 (about US$220), and that of leather garments, to 50 pieces from 30 pieces; and (2) foreign companies were permitted to undertake foreign trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Balboa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B1 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is limited to small denomination coins and several commemorative coins. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On November 26,1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control In general, there are no import or export licenses as such. However, licenses are issued to allow for the act of buying or selling goods, and these licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try (MICI). Specific export licenses are required for products that are subject to export taxes and for certain other goods; these licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. The MICI, through the Panama Trade Development Institute, is responsible for de- termining all aspects of agreement on free trade and bilateral preferential treatment with countries in the region. Panama has bilateral trade agreements with Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Under an agreement with Mexico, 70 products may be ex- ported from Panama to Mexico. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MIDA) and the Agricultural Marketing Institute and Live- stock (IMA), through various product-specific com- missions, determine the import quotas for certain agricultural commodities. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions on indus- trial products, but import quotas, established by the MIDA and the IMA, are maintained on some fifty- five products in the agricultural sector and agro- industries, including timber, salt, rice, onions, fish- meal, milk, and sugar. Imports by the public sector are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. Panama maintains a tariff schedule based on the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature (BTN). In addition to an import duty, a tax of 7.5 percent of the c. & f. value is levied on private sector imports of all dutia- ble goods other than specified pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the rates are 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; books and certain agricultural inputs are exempt. The un- weighted average tariff rate is 27 percent, with the maximum tariff rate reaching 270 percent in the agricultural and 257 percent in the manufacturing sector. In addition to ad valorem tariffs, a system of specific tariffs is maintained, which can be applied if, in the view of the customs authorities, a problem of underinvoicing exists; in some cases, the specific taxes are equivalent to many times the ad valorem rate for the same product. In 1990, tariffs on clothing were reduced and, in December, a plan for a phased reduction of the specific taxes over a period of four years was introduced. Many local industries are protected by high tariffs established under a 1986 law aimed at promoting local and export industries. Exemptions from im- port and customs duties on equipment, machinery, and spare parts apply mainly to export-oriented industries, as well as to industries concentrating on the local market, provided that certain conditions are met. In addition, all imports into the Colon Free Zone and the newly established export processing zones are exempt from duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unrefined sugar, ba- nanas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of certain foodstuffs, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited, and restrictions exist on exports of fish, flour, and coffee. Certain nontraditional exports (with a minimum local cost of production content of 20 percent) are eligible for tax credit certificates equivalent to 20 percent of value added. Proceeds from exports are not subject to exchange control. 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 379 Panama has a very large free trade zone, the Colon Free Zone, established in 1948, a bonded area where goods of any kind (including raw materials and machinery) may be imported, stored, modified, processed, assembled, repacked, and then re- exported without being subject to customs pro- cedures. In addition, in November 1990, a law estab- lishing a special regime of incentives for the creation of export processing zones in Panama was enacted. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets purchased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital Exchange control requirements are not imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A significant number of foreign- controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Restrictions on with- drawals from savings deposits introduced in 1988 were lifted in April 1990, and the only remaining restriction on withdrawals from time deposits was lifted in July 1990; these deposits are permitted to be withdrawn on maturity without restriction. At the end of 1990, more than 80 percent of time deposits had been liberalized. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form, at home or abroad, and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry car- ried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the mone- tary authorities; import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses, by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 percent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5 percent. Changes During 1990 Exports and Export Proceeds February 15. Raw hides were added to the list of restricted exports. November 8. Exports of shrimp larvae and shrimps under a certain size were prohibited. Capital April 15. Restrictions on withdrawals from sav- ings deposits were lifted. July 5. Restrictions on withdrawals from time de- posits were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the kina in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, is ad jus ted daily on the basis of its relation- ship to a weighted basket of currencies represent- ing Papua New Guinea's ma jor trading par tners. On December 31, 1990, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Papua New Guinea for the U.S. dollar were US$1.0518 and US$1.0554, respectively, per K 1. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions with their customers, within a maximum spread of 2 percent between the buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the current forward exchange market reg- ulations, exporters and importers can hedge their exchange rate risks arising from exports or imports by selling foreign exchange forward to or buying foreign exchange forward from the commercial banks. The commercial banks, in turn, hedge their forward positions with firms through forward deals with the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Under this arrangement, the Bank of Papua New Guinea sets the daily forward rates both for its own transactions with the commercial banks and for banks' transac- tions with firms. Major mineral exporters use other means of hedging their exchange rate risks, and the forward market is thus usually dominated by im- porters. The Bank of Papua New Guinea, therefore, normally has a net forward liability to the commer- cial banks, which covers its net forward liability to firms. Under the current arrangement, the forward market is effectively separated from the spot mar- ket. The commercial banks are permitted to hedge their forward purchases and sales in the normal manner through their balance sheets. Forward rates do not therefore reflect hedging costs, i.e., interest rate differentials between Papua New Guinea and other countries. The Bank of Papua New Guinea sets the forward rates without regard to interest rates and assumes all the risks of the forward contracts. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Bank- ing (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed autho- rized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of For- eign Affairs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Papua New Guinea that are expressed in a foreign currency must be met by payments in for- eign currency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds cred- ited to such accounts may be withdrawn without further formality. Nonresidents must have approval to maintain foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are re- stricted for health, security, and protective reasons. Imports of a number of items, including canned meat, sugar, pork, chickens and hens, fowls, certain fresh fruits and vegetables, and matches, are pro- hibited for protective purposes. A number of items, including laundry bar soap, plywood, and specified fruits and vegetables (e.g., broccoli, cauliflower, garlic, and celery), are subject to import quotas and are allowed to be imported through specified ports of entry; temperate fruits and onions are subject to import quota on a nationwide basis. Other items, including poultry other than chickens, hens, or fowls, and reconstituted wood products, are subject to licensing; these licenses are issued on a quarterly basis. Quotas are adjusted quarterly, reflecting the 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 381 extent to which local production can meet domestic demand. Quotas are typically imposed for two- or three-year periods, and quota allocations are made on a pro rata basis with purchases of domestically produced goods. Authorized dealers have the authority to approve applications for import transactions that are not sub- ject to quotas or licensing requirements without referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The tariff regime consists of the following: (1) main es- sential items, including food staples (rice, and can- ned fish and canned meat other than those pro- duced domestically) and medical and educational supplies, are duty free; (2) 5-9 percent for basic goods, including some consumer goods and raw materials; (3) 25-30 percent for intermediate goods, including goods with satisfactory domestic substitutes; and (4) 50-75 percent for luxury goods, including television sets, jewelry, cosmetics, cam- eras, video recorders, and nonessential food and beverage items. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation is produced. The remittance overseas of life insur- ance premiums on new policies written after De- cember 31, 1975 in the names of permanent resi- dents covering strictly the death risk element is permitted with the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The remittance of endowment as- surance premiums is prohibited. Applications for foreign exchange for tourist travel in excess of the equivalent of K 8,000 an adult and K 3,000 a minor a year and K 4,000 for each business trip are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for consideration and are approved in cases of bona fide need. Trav- elers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coins; however, domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any currency that they brought in and declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formality on condi- tion that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payment for goods exported be received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds be sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. When exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the general au- thority, they must apply to the Bank for specific authority. No authority is needed for certain cate- gories of goods, including passengers' personal effec ts. Export licenses are required for specified types of goods (e.g., logs, pearls, fisheries and marine products, woodchips, sandalwood, rat- tan, coffee, cocoa, and copra) under the Export (Valuation and Control) Act. Exports of most un- processed products are subject to export levies. There is a 15 percent export tax on all logs, and, since February 1990, a ban has been applied on the exportation of more valuable species of timber in log form. Moreover, a two-year ban on the issu- ance of new permits for timber operations was introduced in July 1990 to limit timber exports. There is no export license requirement on timber.2 Fish exports are subject to a tax of 10 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer in Papua New Guinea or for its reten- tion. (Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange earnings from any source without the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea.) Over- seas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital (i.e., proceeds from liquidation of direct invest- ments) are normally allowed. Direct investments outside Papua New Guinea by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea are subject to certain limitations. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for the ac- quisition and disposal of foreign securities by per- manent residents. The amount that may be invested for portfolio reasons is limited to K 15,000 a person a year. (Children under the age of 18 are not eligible to receive this allowance.) Investment may take the form only of marketable securities and not of cash deposits. Approvals carry the condition that income from the investment must be returned to Papua New Guinea as received, and details of investments held and income received must be submitted an- nually to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Portfolio investments by companies are not permitted. Per- sons who have been declared to be temporary resi- dents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua 2Effective February 1990, an export tax at the rate of 15 percent has been imposed on timber. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 PAPUA NEW GUINEA New Guinea may repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. Prior clearance from the tax au- thorities is required for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 10,000 in any calendar year. Resi- dents may borrow, with the approval of the Central Bank, on reasonable terms, and external obligations may be serviced within an annual allowance of K 15,000; that is, interest and amortization pay- ments must not exceed K 15,000 a year. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased foreign investment in Papua New Guinea. In some cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers such applications to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign investments other than those in banking and insurance are also sub- ject to approval by the National Investment and Development Authority. Approval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea is also necessary for the ac- knowledgment of indebtedness, partly so that the right to receive a payment may be conferred on a nonresident and partly to ensure that the terms are reasonable. In practice, the requirement that off- shore borrowing by private sector entities in Papua New Guinea may not exceed the debt/equity ratio of 3:1 is normally strictly enforced, except for com- panies involved in mining and oil exploration ac- tivities or in cases where sound economic reasons exist. Commercial banks may undertake offshore borrowing for on-lending to exporters, provided that assumption of exchange risk is not involved. A minimum moratorium period of one year is re- quired for repayments on foreign debt following loan disbursement. Gold Dealings in gold in Papua New Guinea were de- regulated, with effect from January 1, 1987, when royalties and withholding tax payable on sales of alluvial gold were removed and replaced with a 5 percent ad valorem export tax. The exportation and importation of gold by individuals are not permitted. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement January 9. The official external value of the kina was adjusted to Kl = US$1.0443. Imports and Import Payments June 23. Imports of matches were banned. July 1. Imports of temperate fruits were banned. September 1. Imports of 15,000 tons of sugar were authorized for the period September 1990 to May 1991. October 10. Imports of four vegetable items were banned. Exports and Export Proceeds February 1. The export tax on logs and timber was raised from 10 percent to 15 percent. July 1. A two-year ban on the issuance of permits for timber operations was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and ex- change rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. Although the Central Bank intervenes when necessary to smooth out undesirable fluctua- tions, it does not interfere with underlying market trends. Private and public transactions in respect of merchandise imports and exports, services, and private capital transactions are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or exchange houses. On December 31, 1990, the average rate prevailing in this market was G 1,253 per US$1. Public debt-service payments and payments for government services are channeled through the Central Bank at the rate prevailing on the day of the transaction. No commissions are assessed on these transactions if debtors have foreign exchange on deposit with the Central Bank. A commission of 0.5 percent is charged by the Central Bank on sales of foreign exchange to the Government for the payment of imports of goods and services. Capital inflows relating to investment projects approved under Decree Law No. 27/90 on Investment Incentives for Economic Development are exempt from payments of any and all taxes and from customs duties. The commercial banks are not required to trans- fer all of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank but must maintain a daily net position of no more than US$500,000. They are re- quired to report their daily transactions to the Cen- tral Bank. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange pol- icy and supervises, through the Superintendency of Banks, the foreign exchange transactions carried out by the banks and the exchange houses. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Re- public, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing arrangements of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every four months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products require authorization from the appropriate agency, depending on the product imported. These include table wine in bulk, natural grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or with any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions during local harvest seasons. Imports of most petroleum and petroleum products are made through the Na- tional Petroleum Company, PETROPAR. Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) and aviation fuel may be im- ported by the private sector. All importers must be registered at the Central Bank. A tax ranging from 3 percent to 70 percent is levied on most imports depending on the customs specifications, which are based on the Brussels No- menclature. The tax is collected by the banks at the time of delivery of documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal import items exempt from tariffs: imports for religious, charita- ble, cultural, or educational purposes; imports for the Government; furniture acquired through inheri- tance; all imports exempted according to interna- tional treaties; and the accompanied baggage of in- ternational passengers or nationals returning to establish residence in Paraguay. Also exempted are books and periodicals, and imports under Decree Law No. 27/90. Specific products originating from the neighboring countries are subject to a single tax of 10 percent. Imports of certain goods intended for sale in the tourist trade in the country, except for those originating from the neighboring countries, are subject to a 7 percent tariff. Alcohol-powered automobiles, tractors, and motorcycles are subject to only 60 percent of the surcharge established for vehicles with equivalent specifications using other fuels. Imports of agricultural machinery and equip- ment are subject to special reduced-rate tariffs. Imports of a number of products that might jeopardize national security, public order, or public 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 PARAGUAY health are prohibited. The Ministry of Finance is entitled to lift import restrictions on basic foodstuffs, seeds, and cement when domestic pro- duction shortfalls are such that domestic demand cannot be met through internal supply. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or ex- change houses without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic cur- rency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 percent on international airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are exports of rawhides, livestock, horses, wild ani- mals, sheep, goats, pigs, and rabbits. Certain other exports require prior authorization from the appro- priate agency to ensure adequate supplies for do- mestic consumption and to meet the needs of do- mestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certifi- cate issued by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock, depending on the product exported. All exporters are required to be registered at the Central Bank. The proceeds of exports must be col- lected within 120 days after completion of the bank- ing formalities related to the shipping documents; the foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered at authorized banks for conversion at the exchange rate prevailing on the day of the transaction. Proceeds from Invisibles Except for foreign exchange inflows from the bi- national entities (which have to be transferred in full to the Central Bank), there are no surrender re- quirements for proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be chan- neled through the commercial banks or exchange houses. Repatriation of earnings of enterprises and commercial banks is allowed through the free ex- change market. Under Decree Law No. 27/90, the Government grants exemptions from taxes, customs, and import surcharges to proposed in- vestments, provided that these are duly registered and approved. Gold Under Decree Law No. 18/52, the Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold (and foreign exchange) that may be held by residents; this requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement February 28. A forward cover arrangement against exchange rate risk was abolished on February 28, 1990. October 24. The Central Bank authorizes commer- cial banks to provide forward exchange cover for merchandise trade transactions. Conditions (e.g., maximum period of forward contract, premium rates, etc.) are to be determined between the banks and their clients. Imports and Import Payments January 19. Imports of certain petroleum prod- ucts, including LPG and aviation fuel, were liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Peruvian Inti. The external value of the inti is freely determined by participants in the exchange market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. On December 31, 1990, the average interbank transaction rate, as de- termined by the Superintendency of Banking, was I/. 516.989 = US$1. Exchange transactions may be conducted in 15 currencies other than the U.S. dol- lar on the basis of their cross rate relationship in terms of the U.S. dollar in the international market.1 An exchange tax of 0.5 percent is levied on foreign exchange proceeds from exports of goods and ser- vices and on purchases of foreign exchange for im- ports of goods and services. Commercial banks may charge a commission of 0.25 percent on purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Enterprises are not allowed to hold foreign ex- change balances abroad, with limited exceptions, and must sell foreign exchange to the banking sys- tem within ten working days of receipt. Loan pro- ceeds of the public sector must be sold to the Central Reserve Bank or deposited in special accounts main- tained at the Central Reserve Bank. Withdrawals from these accounts may be made only by convert- ing the proceeds into intis. The Central Reserve Bank provides foreign exchange for the servicing of public sector debt. The average interbank rate on the day of the transaction is applied to transactions between the Central Reserve Bank and the rest of the public sector. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bank accounts in foreign currencies may be held with domestic banks. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exporters are required to register for a license at the Institute for Foreign Trade (ICE). JFor external trade transactions, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss francs; for nontrade transactions, transactions may also be effected in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, and Venezuelan bolivares. Exchange houses are authorized to purchase foreign exchange and traveler's checks from resi- dents and nonresidents and to sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for repurchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- ernment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the External Debt Committee. Public enterprises are required to register their short-term indebtedness with the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC) and to obtain its approval for renewal, rollover, or consolidation of such debt. Moreover, as of January 1983, the enterprises must submit their annual short-term borrowing programs to the GDPC for approval. The National Commission on Foreign Investment and Technology (CONITE) su- pervises foreign direct investment in Peru and the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Most pay- ments for invisibles require the approval of CONITE. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in 1 of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies, but exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Payments be- tween Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mex- ico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods are prohibited from all sources for social, health, or security reasons. All other imports are not restricted. Imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for the produc- tion of exports are exempted from import duties, provided that the appropriate ministry determines that such imports qualify under the Temporary Ad- mission Regime. Milk powder and wheat may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Input 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 PERU Marketing; and crude petroleum and petroleum de- rivatives, only by PETROPERU, a state-owned enterprise. With some specified exemptions, imported goods are subject to a uniform value-added tax of 14 per- cent of the c.i.f. value of imports (in addition to the import duty); exempt from the value-added tax are agricultural products, certain minerals and fuels, medicines, and items for personal use (including automobiles up to 2,000 cubic centimeters). A selec- tive consumption tax (also in addition to the import duty) is levied on luxury items, ranging from 10 per- cent to 50 percent of the c . i .f. value. The maximum import duty is 50 percent ad valorem. Public sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Advance payments are permitted only for capital goods imports financed with external credits and up to 20 percent of the f .o.b. value of other imports. Documents for imports that are subject to import authorization requirements must include a certifi- cate of origin, quality, quantity, and price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for almost all invisibles other than pub- lic debt service are not subject to payments authori- zation. With the permission of the Central Bank, Foreign Exchange Bank Certificates may be re- deemed to meet certain debt-service obligations. Remittances of net profits require approval from CONITE and from the Central Bank or the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and a prior tax clearance. In accordance with Andean Pact rules, the remittance of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru is, in principle, limited to 20 percent of the investment a year, although a higher percentage may be permit- ted for investments that generate substantial em- ployment, are situated in underdeveloped areas, or help to diversify exports.2 All payments for royalties, patents, trademarks, and licenses require the prior approval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign parent com- pany or its affiliates. The maximum interest rate on a new loan from a foreign parent company or its affiliate may not exceed by more than 3 percent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transaction is conducted. Foreign investment by pe- troleum and mining companies is subject to special contracts with the Peruvian Government. 2Companies exporting at least 80 percent of their production to countries outside the Andean Pact, mining companies, and those engaged in tourism are exempt from this limit. The sale of foreign exchange for business travel abroad, other than official business, is limited to US$220 a person a day up to a maximum of US$4,400 a trip to North America and Europe; US$250 a person a day, up to a maximum of US$5,000 a trip to Asia; and US$150 a person a day, up to a maximum of US$3,000 a trip to other coun- tries. Expenditures on tourist travel abroad are lim- ited to US$5,000 or its equivalent in other currencies a person a calendar year and must be paid for through the parallel market. A tax of US$30 is levied on travel abroad. Foreign exchange for other invis- ible payments is granted, as follows: (1) education allowances, US$1,000 for expenses, and US$1,000 a month for fees and leave allowance; (2) family maintenance, US$800 a month; and (3) medical treatment, the full amount of medical expenses plus US$150 a person a day. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are not restricted. Approval from the Central Reserve Bank is re- quired for purchases of foreign exchange for pay- ments that are not covered by the exchange regula- tions. Foreign exchange in excess of the specified limits may be obtained for bona fide purposes with the approval of the Central Reserve Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export prohibitions apply to 65 items, mainly rare wildlife and plants, cotton, rubber, and mineral ores. Exports of gold have been prohibited since 1986. Export licenses are required for 87 other com- modities. The Banco Minero del Peru is the princi- pal exporter of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINPECO has a monopoly over exports of silver and other refined metals produced by the public enterprises; since August 1985 PETROPERU has had a monopoly over exports of petroleum products. Ex- ports of certain commodities specified by the ICE are subject to prior license. Export proceeds as well as export prefinancing loans must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within five calendar days of the expected date of receipt. Traditional exports must be financed against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Cen- tral Reserve Bank and the General Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be financed against sight drafts, provided that payments are received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters are required to surrender to the Central Reserve Bank proceeds from exports and export prefinancing. However, on the day following the receipt of surrendered export proceeds, the Central Reserve Bank issues in favor of the exporter a con- vertible foreign exchange certificate (CC) which is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 387 simultaneously converted into foreign exchange. The foreign exchange is deposited in the exporter's foreign currency account at his agent bank and thereafter may be disposed of freely in accordance with the exchange regulations. The Export Credit Insurance Company of Peru (SECREX) administers an export credit guarantee program. To be eligible for the incentives granted for nontraditional ex- ports, exporters must be listed in the Register of Enterprises Exporting Nontraditional Products; each entry in the list is valid for two years. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to sur- render requirements. Capital Certain outward capital transfers require ap- proval. For transfers derived from foreign direct investment, the approval of CONITE is required; for most transfers related to the servicing of public debt, the appropriate agency is the General Direc- torate of Public Credit. Minimum maturities and grace periods for different categories of external loans contracted or guaranteed by the public sector have been established on the contracting of new public or publicly guaranteed external debt (with certain exceptions) having an original maturity of more than one but less than ten years. Loan amor- tization payments of the public sector are autho- rized by the General Directorate of Public Credit. The restrictions on debt-service payments on non- guaranteed private sector debt were eliminated on July 30, 1990. Short-term trade credits with banks owned by public sector borrowers that have not signed a refi- nancing agreement are to be rolled over on maturity until signature of agreement. Local currency funds for the servicing of these debts are to be placed on deposit in special accounts at the Central Reserve Bank on the maturity date of the original obligation. With the permission of the Central Reserve Bank, funds in these special accounts may be lent out domestically as loans denominated in foreign cur- rency, with a maturity of less than one year. In compliance with the foreign investment re- gime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the appropriate agency, in most in- stances, CONITE. If a foreign company incorporated in Peru wishes to benefit from the duty-free pro- gram of the Cartagena Agreement, it must agree to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in the company, so as to transform it into a mixed or national company during a maximum period of 30 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, the required par- ticipation of national investors in the capital of these enterprises is not less than 15 percent in the first 3 years; this participation must be raised to at least 30 percent after 10 years, to at least 45 percent after 20 years, and to at least 51 percent at the end of the 30-year period. Mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 percent and 80 percent of the capital, and na- tional companies are those in which national inves- tors own at least 80 percent of the capital. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the General Mining Law. Companies holding min- ing concessions may enter into mining contracts with the Government that provide for special incen- tives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enter- prises with government participation of at least 25 percent. The Government may grant to mining concessionaries (initiating large-scale investment programs) tax incentives and guaranteed avail- ability of foreign exchange for transfers for (1) re- covery of investment; (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the financial market from which the loans originate; (3) payments for justified services; and (4) reasonable profit remittances. Mixed mining enterprises may receive all the benefits and incen- tives that may be granted by special contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold The exportation of refined gold is the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru, but gold exports have been suspended since 1986. Imports of gold are permitted only on a temporary basis, and they are restricted to authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru or the Central Reserve Bank. The purchase price for domestically produced gold by the Central Reserve Bank is calculated on the basis of the average dollar price of gold in London seven days earlier and the average interbank exchange rate on the day of delivery of the gold. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement January 11. The system of forward sales of foreign exchange was abolished. July 31. The Central Bank suspended purchases of foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 PERU August 9. Regulations were enacted to unify and float the exchange rate. Exporters would receive all of their surrendered proceeds in freely disposable foreign exchange certificates (CLDs), which could be used to pay for all imports, nonfactor services, and the servicing of private unguaranteed debt. Importers were also allowed to purchase foreign exchange in the free market. Banks were permitted to freely purchase and sell foreign exchange and CLDs at any price and to transfer foreign exchange abroad for authorized current and capital transac- tions. Limitations on the servicing of nonguaran- teed private debts were removed. Advance import payments for capital goods were permitted for up to 20 percent of the value of the import. Import- registration requirements were liberalized, whereby importers were required to inform the Central Reserve Bank of import transactions within 30 days of the arrival of goods. October 23. The exchange system was further re- formed. Exporters would henceforth receive all of their surrendered proceeds in CCs instead of in CLDs. The CCs could be converted into foreign exchange immediately, and the proceeds could be deposited in the exporter's foreign exchange ac- counts in the domestic banking system. Existing CLDs could be held until maturity or be used to make payments for imports or for servicing private debt. Imports and Import Payments January 5. The benefits granted by Supreme De- cree 071-89-EF were expanded. Imports for projects financed by the Italian Government were exempted from port duties, the 10 percent import tariff, and several other charges. January 11. The advance import authorization re- quirement for goods imported at the controlled ex- change rate (MUC) was re-established. January 19. A non-interest-bearing advance im- port deposit requirement was imposed on imports subject to the MUC exchange rate. The deposit rate must equal 50 percent of the value of the import and be lodged for 30 days. Imports financed with credits of over 90-day maturity were exempted. This re- quirement was abolished on August 19, 1990. Various categories of electrical generators and cat- tle were exempted from tariffs. January 27. A flat duty of 20 percent was levied on the first US$1,000 of goods acquired abroad by travelers. March 2. Thirty-five pharmaceutical products were made eligible for importation at the MUC ex- change rate with the authorization of CON AM AD. March 7. The Department of Amazonas and the provinces of Jaen and San Ignacio were established as Special Customs Treatment Zones. March 20. The exemption from tariff for the impor- tation of sugar was eliminated. April 15. The minimum tariff level was raised to 15 percent from 10 percent. April 19. Imports made at the MUC exchange rate were subject to an advance payments authorization. April 25. Regulations establishing the Industrial Free Trade Zone were announced. April 26. Newsprint was exempted from the ad- vance import deposit requirement. May 2. Kitchen equipment for the Direct Assis- tance Program was exempted from tariffs. May 3. Regulations governing operations of the Special Treatment (Free Trade) Zone at Tacna were announced. May 5. Products donated for public or private social assistance were exempted from the tax on freight costs. June 12. A10 percent special tariff was established for imports of goods from the Tacna Special Treat- ment Zone. June 15. Payments for imports of corn were effected at the free market exchange rate. June 20. The Trujillo Free Trade Zone was established. Payments for imports of soybean oil were effected at the free market exchange rate. June 26. Payments for imports of corn and soy- bean oil were effected at the MUC exchange rate. June 28. The National Customs Superintendency was authorized until the end of 1990 to permit the duty-free importation of machinery for the fishing industry. July 25. Industrial Free Trade Zones were estab- lished at Pisco, Trujillo, and Paita, and a Special Treatment Zone was established at Tumbes .' July 26. A requirement that importers must ob- tain, before shipment, a certificate of origin, quality, quantity, and price was introduced. Such certifi- cates must be presented to the Central Bank in order to obtain payments authorization for importa- tion and to the Customs Administration. August 11. A major reform of the trade regime was put into effect. The maximum tariff rate was lowered to 50 percent, and the minimum tariff rate was set at 10 percent. The import-licensing require- ment, the requirement of proof of noncompetition, and other nontariff barriers were eliminated. The list of prohibited imports was reduced to 25 tariff categories from 539, with the remaining prohibi- tions largely applying to luxury goods, such as race horses, dogs, perfumes, and vehicles with engines ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 389 larger than 2,000 cc. The majority of exemptions from import duties were eliminated; exemptions were maintained for imports related to international agreements, donations, and those imported into free trade and special treatment zones. The basic CERTEX (tax exemption certificates, granted to ex- porters of specified products) rate was unified at 10 percent. Certain other CERTEX benefits were re- duced or eliminated. September 21. The tariff structure was reor- ganized, and the remaining import prohibitions were eliminated. Three tariff rates—15 percent, 25 percent, and 50 percent —were established, with the highest rate being Applied primarily to finished goods produced domestically, the middle rate to intermediate and capital goods, and the lowest rate to primary inputs. The general import surtax, the additional tax of 1 percent on the c .i .f. value of imports, the tax on freight charges, the 2 percent tax on the f .o.b. value of imports for defense purposes, and the 2 percent surtax on the f .o .b. value of im- ports were eliminated. The 10 percent surtax on imports subject to the tariff rates of 25 percent and 50 percent was established until December 31,1990. September 22. It was announced that the reforms introduced on August 11 would not apply to goods that had already been paid for, had already been shipped, or were in customs when the new mea- sures were announced. November 5. The 10 percent surcharge on imports subject to the tariff rates of 25 percent and 50 per- cent was eliminated. The selective consumption tax (which applies to locally produced and imported goods) was reduced, and the number of rates was reduced to three from eight (10 percent, 30 percent, and 50 percent). Peruvian nationals returning to the country after having worked abroad as diplomats or functionaries of international organizations were permitted to bring in goods duty free. The importa- tion of used capital goods was permitted without prior authorization; these goods would be subject to tariffs at the applicable tariff rates assessed on 30 percent of the value of comparable new goods. A Temporary Admission Regime was estab- lished, under which goods, other than capital goods, that were intended to be used as inputs for export products were permitted to be imported tax and duty free. (On December 16, the regime was modified to exclude packing materials.) November 22. Tariff preferences granted for the importation of chromium sulfate from LAIA coun- tries were eliminated, with the exception of imports from Bolivia, Ecuador, and Paraguay. December 14. State enterprises were authorized to effect imports of food products on behalf of third parties, provided that the enterprises charge a com- mission of no more than 2 percent of the value of the import and that the third party pay all the import and shipping costs. December 16. A flat rate of 25 percent would be levied on baggage subject to import duties. A timetable was established for additional tariff reductions and eventual tariff unification. Tariffs applicable to goods currently subject to the 50 per- cent rate would be reduced by 5 percentage points every six months until January 1994, beginning in July 1991, and tariffs applicable to goods currently subject to the 25 percent rate would be reduced by 1 percentage point every six months until July 1993, beginning in July 1991. The top two rates would be further reduced to 18 percent in July 1994 and to 15 percent in January 1995. Payments for Invisibles April 18. Payments of insurance premiums and repayments of external credits with CLDs were no longer permitted. Exports and Export Proceeds January 12. The percentage of financing of non- transferable exchange certificate (PENT) credits (subsidized credits for nontraditional exports) with- out advance accounts was reduced to 40 percent from 90 percent. February 14. The percentage of export proceeds converted into CLDs was raised to 45 percent, and that into CCs was lowered to 10 percent. March 3. The percentage of export proceeds con- verted into CLDs was raised to 60 percent, and the remainder was to be converted into intis at the MUC exchange rate. March 9. Exporters were given a maximum period of ten days to transfer export proceeds that were surrendered by January 15. March 23. Exporters receiving PENT credits under the Debt for Export Schemes who had completed their shipments but not been paid by the Banco de la Nation were permitted to roll over their repay- ment obligations to the Central Reserve Bank. April 1. The system of PENT credits without ad- vance accounts was abolished. April 17. It was announced that PENT advance account credits for exporters, which previously had been disbursed in U.S. dollars, would henceforth be disbursed in intis at the free market exchange rate. April 18. It was established that PENT credits would be disbursed in intis at the free bank rate. It was established that the credits would be repayable with MUC certificates for up to 40 percent of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 PERU value of the export and the rest would be repaid with CLDs. April 19. The period for surrendering export pro- ceeds to the Central Reserve Bank was shortened from five working days to five calendar days from the day of receipt of payment. April 26. It was announced that the MUC exchange rate would be applied to the servicing of PENT credits disbursed before the first of December. May 15. A line of credit in intis equivalent to about US$20 million (which was subsequently aug- mented) was approved as working capital for ex- porters. Maximum amounts were established for each beneficiary. May 24. The automatic rollover of PENT credits was extended until the Banco de la Nacion com- pletes its payments to exporters under the Debt for Export Schemes. For PENT credits disbursed at the MUC exchange rate, exporters were given an addi- tional 60 days to repay the credits, and they would be reimbursed for the difference between the MUC and CLD exchange rates to the extent that they used CLDs to repay their credits. June 23. Exports to Cuba were suspended pending agreement on a new reciprocal credit agreement. June 20. The percentage of export proceeds con- verted into CLDs was raised to 70 percent, with the remainder to be converted into intis at the MUC ex- change rate. July 12. The limit on the interest rate chargeable on credits to exporters was set at 42 percent a month. July 26. Exports to Cuba were permitted under a reciprocal credit agreement. Capital April 17. The maximum transfer abroad for banks that had not completed required transfers of sur- rendered export proceeds was reduced to US$50,000 from US$100,000. July 30. The restrictions on debt-service payments on nonguaranteed private sector debt were eliminated. August 8. The restrictions on debt-service pay- ments on nonguaranteed private sector debt were eliminated. Gold January 5. It was established that domestic pur- chases of gold would be paid for entirely with CLDs. March 14. It was established that the Central Bank would purchase gold domestically and interna- tionally at the price prevailing in London seven working days before the transaction. Payment would be made in intis on the day of delivery of the gold, with the dollar price converted to intis at the free market exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transac- tions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange mar- ket. However, the authorities intervene when neces- sary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and in light of their other policy objectives in the medium term. On December 31, 1990, the offi- cial rate was P 28.0 per US$1. The spot buying and selling rates for commercial reference transactions are limited by a floor of 1 percent below the official reference rate and a ceiling of 2 percent above the official reference rate, respectively.1 The Central Bank is not governed by the trading rules of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange, except for transactions conducted at the trading cen- ter. Interbank trading takes place on-floor at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX) from 4:30 p.m. through 5:00 p.m. daily. Off-floor inter- bank trading is prohibited. The Central Bank from time to time acts as a buyer or a supplier on the trading floor. Under the Private Corporate Sector Foreign Cur- rency Debt Repayment Program (Central Bank Cir- cular Nos. 1076 and 1178) administered by the Pri- vate Debt Restructuring and Repayment Corpora- tion (PDRRC), corporate debtors and their foreign creditors are provided with options for arranging repayments and rescheduling, with partial forward exchange cover provided if desired by the debtor; full forward cover is provided only for financially distressed borrowers. To be eligible for the pro- gram, debt must be non-trade-related; owed a bank or financial institution, except multilateral agencies, and foreign government agencies that are members of the Paris Club; outstanding and duly registered with the Central Bank as of October 17, 1983; and falling due between October 17, 1983 and Decem- ber 31, 1986 (Central Bank Circular No. 1076) or between January 1, 1987 and December 31, 1992 (Central Bank Circular No. 1178). If partial (75 per- cent) forward cover is provided, the PDRRC enters into a forward contract with the debtor, whereby the irThese limits were removed on January 28, 1991. debtor would pay to the PDRRC peso amounts equivalent to the rescheduled maturities converted at the central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars pre- vailing on the date that the eligible debt was effec- tively entered into the program, plus quarterly fees equal to the product of the domestic interest rate prevailing at the beginning of the quarter and the peso value of the outstanding debt. The PDRRC would remit the peso value of the obligation at the prevailing central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars to the Treasury Department of the Central Bank, which in turn would assume the principal obliga- tion; the PDRRC also remits interest payments to the creditor at LIBOR through the Central Bank. On the other hand, if 100 percent forward cover is pro- vided, the PDRRC extends a notional peso loan to the borrower equal to the peso equivalent of the debt involved, converted at the central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars prevailing on the date the debt was effectively entered into the program. Subject to PDRRC's receipt from the debtor of the service pay- ments on this notional peso loan, the PDRRC would remit the service payments on the foreign loan to the Treasury Department of the Central Bank, which in turn would assume the foreign loan in favor of the creditor. Under the Philippine Private Financial Sector For- eign Currency Debt Repayment Program (Central Bank Circular No. 1081, superseded by No. 1179) administered by the Central Bank, private financial sector borrowers and their foreign lenders are pro- vided with options for the rescheduling of their specified debt outstanding as of October 17, 1983. Options, usually on the part of the lenders, include: (1) retention by lender of the private financial obli- gor's credit risk, subject to repayment as follows: one sixth of the principal amount in each of the calendar years 1993 and 1994, and one third of the principal amount in each of the calendar years 1993 and 1994, and one third of the principal amount in each of the calendar years 1995 and 1996, and (2) central bank assumption of the foreign obliga- tion involved through the delivery of Philippine pesos, or as may be agreed between the Central Bank and the borrower. For obligations thus as- sumed, the Central Bank executes a Credit Sched- ule under the Central Bank Restructuring Agree- ment corresponding to the dollar equivalent of each such peso amount delivered by the borrower to the Central Bank. A private financial sector borrower in 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 PHILIPPINES respect of a specified debt, which is covered by an existing swap or foreign exchange contract entered into with the Central Bank for its own account, may continue to benefit from the forward exchange rate set forth in that contract. The Central Bank likewise extends forward ex- change cover to the foreign liability of the national government and 14 specified nonfinancial public sector corporations. They are required to deposit the peso equivalent of the obligation in a blocked account on the date of the original maturity, com- puted on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing on the date of deposit, with the Central Bank through the national Treasury or with their autho- rized agent banks. The deposit is for the peso equiv- alent of amortization of principal, interest, and penalties, if any, on their foreign exchange obliga- tions owed to foreign commercial banks, maturing between January 1,1987 and December 31,1992 and subject to rescheduling. With respect to obligations owed to the Paris Club, all Paris Club borrowers are enjoined to de- posit with the Central Bank on the original due date the peso equivalent of 100 percent interest maturing from June 1,1989 to June 30,1991. The Central Bank provides the corresponding forward cover for the amount deposited and pays the rescheduling inter- est from the date of deposit. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. Certain new for- eign direct or portfolio investments in the Philip- pines require the prior approval of the Board of Investments (BOI). Only authorized agent banks (AABs), all of which are commercial banks, may engage in both sale and purchase operations in foreign exchange. Autho- rized foreign exchange agents (AFXAs) and autho- rized foreign exchange buyers (AFXBs) may not sell foreign exchange to the general public but they may purchase foreign currencies from tourists and other specified nonresidents for conversion into pesos and they may accept foreign exchange in payment of goods and services rendered. AFXAs consist of thrift and rural banks, three- to five-star hotels and resorts in the "AA" or "AAA" categories as classi- fied by the Department of Tourism (DOT), duty-free shops, supermarkets, department stores, and other tourist-oriented establishments accredited by the DOT and issued authority by the Central Bank. AFXBs are nonbank entities authorized by the Cen- tral Bank to purchase foreign exchange with pesos from the general public. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, the Philippines notified the Fund, on Feb- ruary 25, 1991, that certain restrictions were im- posed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to the Govern- ment of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments for outgoing payments, but all exchange pro- ceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.2 Most payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Autho- rized agent banks and foreign exchange agents and buyers are authorized to accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for conversion into pesos. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of nonresidents, whether indi- vidual or corporate, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remit- tances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties (real or per- sonal) located in the Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Withdrawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting evidence and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Imports and Import Payments Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. However, certain commodities are regulated/restricted for reasons of public health, safety, international commitments, development, and rationalization of local industries. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 393 Imports are classified into three categories: freely importable, prohibited, and regulated. Products that are freely importable may be processed by au- thorized agent banks without prior approval from the Central Bank. Products in the second category, whose importation is prohibited, include those originating from the Republic of South Africa, onions, potatoes, garlic, cabbages (except for seed- ling purposes), coffee, used clothing and rags, and toy guns. The third category consists of products whose importation requires clearance and permits from various government agencies, including the Central Bank. Sales of foreign exchange for imports of com- modities that are classified under the two categories of consumer goods—unclassified consumer (UC) and nonessential consumer (NEC) —are subject to prior approval from the Central Bank. Imports on a consignment basis require prior central bank ap- proval, except for products imported by the Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) —registered firms authorized by the EPZA board. The importa- tion of machinery, equipment, and spare parts, ex- cept when they are regulated imports, may be ap- proved by AABs without prior approval from the Central Bank or the Board of Investments. Importa- tions of capital goods financed through foreign credits must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. Imports originating in socialist or centrally planned countries require the prior approval of the Philippine International Trading Corporation. Pre- shipment inspection is required for imports valued at more than US$500 and for those originating in the ten countries covered by the Comprehensive Im- ports Supervision Scheme (CISS), namely: Brunei, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan Province of China, and Thailand. Commodities may be imported against letters of credit, or on a documents against acceptance (D/A) basis, or under open account (O/A) arrangements. The D/A and O/A procedures are restricted to oil firms, export-oriented companies certified or regis- tered by the Central Bank, the BOI, the Garments and Textile Export Board, the EPZA, exporters of semiconductor devices, exporters of garments and footwear, franchised public utility concerns, partici- pants in the Car Development Manufacturing Pro- gram, Commercial Vehicle Development Program, Progressive Export Program for Consumer Elec- tronics Products, Diesel Engine Development Man- ufacturing Program, and accredited participants in the BOI Pulp and Paper Industry Rationalization Program. The use of these procedures by producer firms is normally restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer (EP) Goods category. However, firms belonging to certain industries are eligible to import non-EP items under such arrangements. Unless arrangements are made for terms of credit, imports valued at less than US$500 may generally be effected through direct remittance while those valued at more than US$500 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the date of shipment. All import transactions channeled through AABs are reported to the Central Bank within 48 hours of the transaction for letters of credit and within 48 hours of the issuance of release certificates for D/A and O/A availments, for monitoring purposes. Separate regulations apply to imports into spe- cific regions by barter traders. 'Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to South Africa are pro- hibited. In principle, all other payments are permit- ted, with the prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence. However, certain limits are established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents; remittances for educational expenses, maintenance, and expenses of dependents of resi- dents while abroad; allowances for medical treat- ment; remittances of earnings by foreign workers; remittances of profits, dividends, and interest; roy- alties; and for film and other rentals (see below). Foreign exchange allowances for travel abroad are limited to the following amounts: (1) for both busi- ness and nonbusiness travel, irrespective of dura- tion, up to a maximum of US$3,000 for the United States, Canada, South America, Europe, Australia, the Middle East, Africa, Japan, and New Zealand (Area I); (2) for both business and nonbusiness travel, irrespective of duration, up to a maximum of US$1,000 for Hong Kong, Taiwan Province of China, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Thai- land, and other countries not covered under (1) (Area II); (3) for travelers under 21 years of age, up to a maximum of US$500, irrespective of dura- tion and destination; and (4) for overseas contract workers with prearranged employment, up to a maximum of US$100. Foreign tourists holding a visa valid for up to 59 days may remit abroad up to the equivalent of US$1,000 against payment in another foreign currency they brought in; beyond this amount, approval must be obtained from the Cen- tral Bank. The following limits apply to exchange for educa- tional expenses abroad for students undertaking ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 PHILIPPINES bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree courses at duly accredited colleges or universities. The al- lowances are divided according to the areas in which the study is undertaken: living allowances are provided up to US$500 a month in Area I and US$350 a month in Area II; allowances for books and supplies up to US$500 a year in both areas; clothing allowance up to US$500 a year in Area I and US$300 a year in Area II; other miscellaneous school ex- penses are allowed up to US$500 a year in Area I and US$300 a year in Area II. Any scholarship al- lowances are deducted from these amounts. High school students may be granted foreign exchange for education only under an exchange program and under the following conditions: the maximum travel funds for each student are US$500, and the max- imum clothing allowance and incidental expenses during the stay abroad are US$500 and US$1,000 a student, respectively, a calendar year. The limits on remittances to dependents of resi- dents are as follows: US$250 a month for each dependent living in Area I as defined above, and US$150 a month for each dependent living in Area II. The maintenance allowances for dependents are granted only for close relatives under conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Allowances for health and medical expenses in- curred abroad may be remitted, provided that the amount does not exceed US$3,000 for initial ex- penses, and that the remainder is verified with a hospital's or doctor's itemized bill. Additional amounts, if any, may be remitted directly to the hospital or doctor abroad upon submission of sup- porting documents. Foreign nationals with a special temporary visa, holding an alien employment permit issued by the Department of Labor and Employment and em- ployed in the Philippines may remit no more than 50 percent of their net compensation (salary, ex- cluding fringe benefits and bonuses) net of with- holding tax. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents realized after Octo- ber 14,1984 are permitted in full, provided that the investments are registered with the Central Bank and that the remittances are not financed from do- mestic borrowings. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copyrights ac- cruing after October 14, 1984 are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered with the Cen- tral Bank or the Bureau of Patents, Trademarks, and Technology Transfers. Remittances of the pro- ducer's share of earnings (net of deductible ex- penses and taxes) made on motion-picture films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares do not exceed 60 percent of net proceeds from films. Television film rentals are not subject to the 60 per- cent limit but are remittable in full based on rates stipulated in individual contracts or agreements. Notwithstanding other provisions, however, all un- serviced, eligible, nontrade, nonloan remittances (e.g., dividends, profits, royalties, lease payments, fees, and commissions) earned and having become due and payable before October 15, 1984 and in arrears of transfers as of that date shall not be ser- viced without prior central bank approval. Dividends of current income arising from equity investments in nonpriority sectors made in connec- tion with the program for the conversion of external debt into equity investments may not be transferred for the first four years after the investment is made; thereafter, such dividends and current income may be transferred. Foreign exchange within the limits established above may be purchased from authorized agent banks; the prior approval of the Central Bank is required specifically for foreign exchange remit- tance of tourists in excess of US$1,000, and for profits and dividends. The Central Bank considers applications for payments for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set on their merits. No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign ex- change except as authorized by the Central Bank. In addition to the allowable limits on travel funds, resi- dents may take out foreign currency notes up to US$1,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had pre- viously brought in and declared, including the for- eign exchange equivalent of their reconverted un- spent pesos, if any. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Cen- tral Bank to take out more than P 1,000 in domestic bank notes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. When travel- ing abroad, citizens of the Philippines must pay a travel tax of P2,700 for first-class passage and P 1,620 for economy-class passage. Reduced rates of PI,350 for first-class passengers and P 81JO for economy- class passengers are provided for groups of people traveling for recognized special purposes. Reduced rates of P 400 for first-class passengers and P300 for economy-class passengers are provided for depen- dents of contract workers duly registered with the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to the Republic of South Africa and all exports of logs and lumber are prohibited. Exports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 395 of certain commodities, mostly agricultural or tradi- tional products, deemed essential for industrializa- tion, conservation, and economic development are regulated and require prior export clearance from the government agencies concerned. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted. All exports must be covered by export declara- tions/permits issued by authorized agent banks of the Central Bank. In addition, export commodities classified as "traditional" must be covered by a Re- port of Foreign Sales—to be filed by the exporter within 24 hours of closing of sale. Export proceeds must be received in one of the 21 designated foreign currencies (see footnote 2). As a general rule, the shipping documents and the ex- port payments must be channeled through the local banking system; however, payment under open ac- count (O/A) arrangements may be allowed with the prior approval of the Central Bank. Unless fully prepaid (or under O/A), the exporter must, within seven days of the date of completion of loading, present to the authorized agent bank covering draft with shipping documents for negotiation or collec- tion. If fully prepaid, the exporter must present copies of the shipping documents within the same period for record-keeping purposes. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be transferred to the Philippines within 60 days of the date of shipment, unless a longer period is allowed by the Central Bank in special cases. Such proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized agent bank and converted into pesos within three business days of receipt. The undrawn balances of exports with initial drawings of less than 100 percent of f.o.b. invoice value must be transferred to the Phil- ippines within 150 days of the date of shipment for exports to Europe, Africa, and Latin America, and within 120 days of the date of shipment for exports to other countries. There are no export taxes. Export trade with socialist or centrally planned countries is handled through the Philippine Inter- national Trading Corporation. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days to an authorized agent bank. When- ever net foreign exchange receipts from invisibles amount to at least US$100,000 (or its equivalent in other currencies) for the calendar year immediately preceding, the firm may, upon application, be cer- tified by the Central Bank as export oriented. It shall be entitled to retain a portion of its earnings in a special foreign currency deposit account with AABs for operating expenses abroad and other contingen- cies. Such earnings may not exceed the equivalent of the average expenses incurred during the preced- ing 3 months plus 10 percent of the gross foreign exchange receipts during the 12 months imme- diately preceding. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies (including foreign bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks) by resi- dents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered for- eign currency accounts are allowed, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresi- dents pursuant to contractual obligations. Balances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Philippine nationals working abroad are required to repatriate specified minimum shares of their for- eign earnings, ranging from 50 percent to 80 per- cent. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to PI,000 in domestic bank notes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coins. Peso-denominated gold coins issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines are exempt from these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to South Af- rica are prohibited. All inward and outward capital transfers, with the exception of certain banking op- erations and certain transactions related to the fi- nancing of international trade (see below), are sub- ject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applications for new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) are reviewed, no priority or preference is given to the category of industry where investment is made, as long as (1) it does not violate the nationalization law and its re- quirements; (2) there is inward remittance for cash investments; and (3) investment in kind covers only machinery and equipment, raw materials, sup- plies and spare parts, and other items classified as EP, NEC, SEP, and UC that are necessary for the operation of domestic companies in essential indus- tries defined by the BOI to be within the scope and purview of the Omnibus Investment Code, par- ticularly the Investment Priorities Plan. The law guarantees full repatriation of cash investment in export-oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered with the BOI, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 PHILIPPINES equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium-priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Investments in domestic commercial banks regis- tered with the Central Bank, if made after May 31, 1973, may be repatriated freely, and, if made before that date, are repatriable according to the schedule specified under (4) in the following paragraph. Sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct investments are restricted, depend- ing on the category of industry in which the invest- ment is made, as follows: (1) investments in export- oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in full, but no annual installment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign ex- change earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports, are repatriable in three equal annual installments start- ing one year after the liquidation of the investment, but no annual installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not utilizing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year af ter the liquidation of the investment; and (4) for invest- ments in the remaining industries, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 million or less, five equal an- nual installments after liquidation; for amounts within the range US$0.25-0.5 million, seven equal annual installments after liquidation; and for amounts of over US$0.5 million, nine equal annual installments after liquidation. Approval and regis- tration by the Central Bank are required for the assigned capital of branches of foreign banks to be eligible for profit remittances and capital repatria- tion. During the period between the sale of the investment and actual repatriation, the proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by and regis- tered with the Central Bank, in government se- curities, in shares of stock in BOI-registered indus- tries, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investment is also permitted in connection with the Program for the Conversion of Philippine External Debt into Equity Investments. Under this program, most categories of external debt, including rescheduled debt, may be con- verted into equity investment. Specifically, with re- gard to central bank debt, regular quarterly auctions are held to allocate conversion rights. Other conver- sion operations must be approved by the Central Bank. For investments in the priority sectors, capital repatriation is not permitted during the first three years after the investment, and during the fourth through eighth year, not more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year; for investments in other sectors, capi- tal repatriation is not permitted during the first five years, and during the sixth through the tenth year, no more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year. Without prior approval from the Central Bank, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal inter- national trade transactions. They may, however, ac- cept deposits in 22 scheduled currencies from non- residents of foreign nationality; such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 percent withholding tax. Twenty-five domestic commercial banks and four local branches of foreign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme; these foreign currency deposit unit banks are empowered to borrow funds from international money markets for domestic on-lending. Nonbank residents may obtain foreign credits, subject to prior approval from the Central Bank through the Man- agement of the External Debt Department. As a general rule, medium- and long-term foreign loans must be used to finance foreign exchange costs of eligible projects, for example: (1) export-oriented projects; (2) projects listed in the Annual Invest- ment Priorities Plan of the BOI; (3) projects listed in the Medium-Term Public Investment Program pre- pared by the National Economic Development Au- thority; and (4) other projects specifically autho- rized by Congress for financing through foreign loans. Proceeds of loans for private sector projects may, however, finance the foreign costs component and up to 50 percent of the total peso cost compo- nent of such projects, provided that (1) the project is an export-oriented/foreign exchange-generating project registered with the BOI and certified by the Central Bank; (2) there shall be no net foreign ex- change outflow for the duration of the foreign loan; (3) the loan must not be covered by a guarantee of the government or any of the government corporations/financial institutions; and (4) the total amount of foreign loans for local cost financing must not exceed the indicative limit to be set by the Monetary Board. Maturities and interest rates must reflect prevail- ing conditions in the international capital markets. Appropriate grace periods must be imposed, with due consideration given to such concerns as the project's gestation period and the impact of the for- eign loan on the statutory debt service ratio, among ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 397 others. Total approval must, however, be in accor- dance with the limits for each maturity category as determined by the Monetary Board. Any prospec- tive borrowing equivalent to US$3 million or more must be submitted for inclusion in the foreign bor- rowing program that is prepared by the Central Bank. Furthermore, foreign loans approved by the Central Bank are required to be registered subse- quently with the Central Bank through the MEDD in order to be eligible for servicing principal and interest payments through authorized agent banks. For short-term foreign credits, eligible borrowers may obtain financing from (1) the US$3 billion Re- volving Short-Term Trade Facility (RTF) for legiti- mate trade transactions; (2) a U.S. dollar-based working capital credit facility from Foreign Cur- rency Deposit Units (FCDUs) of local commercial banks for peso cost requirements of export projects; and (3) FCDUs, Offshore Banking Units, and other offshore sources for foreign exchange requirements of export and non-export projects. Except for short- term foreign currency loans from FCDUs under item (2) above, all short-term loans require prior approval from the Central Bank through the MEDD. In general, short-term credits are allowed to carry rates that reflect prevailing conditions in the international capital markets, except for borrowings of the public sector (which are considered guaran- teed obligations) under the RTF, which may carry a maximum of % of 1 percent over LIBOR pursuant to relevant provisions of the RTF agreement, as well as borrowings covered by item (3) above, which allow a 3/4 of 1 percent maximum spread. Emigrants may initially transfer up to US$5,000 without prior central bank approval. They may withdraw their remaining liquid assets in five equal annual installments, starting one year after the ini- tial transfer. Outward investment by resident persons, firms, or corporations requires the prior approval of the Central Bank through the Foreign Exchange Opera- tions and Investments Department. Except as oth- erwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any con- tract or transaction that may involve settlement in foreign exchange or assets expressed in foreign cur- rencies. This restriction also applies to contracts or transactions involving assets within the Philippines that belong to a nonresident person, firm, or corpor- ation, and to their exportation or importation. De- tailed regulations concerning transactions in se- curities between residents and nonresidents are in effect. Twenty-one foreign banks have been authorized to operate offshore banking units in the Philip- pines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and with other offshore units. Offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos with domestic agent banks exclusively to meet administrative and other operating expenses and to pay to designated local beneficiaries of non- resident Filipinos the equivalent of foreign ex- change remittances channeled through the offshore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. Off- shore banking units may also sell inward remit- tances of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. The Omnibus Investments Code of 1987 (E.O. No. 226) guarantees all investors in enterprises reg- istered with the Central Bank the right to repatriate their investments and to remit earnings thereon as well as sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaran- teed freedom from expropriation and requisition. Different arrangements exist for "pioneer invest- ments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eign nationals are permitted to operate only in pi- oneer areas of investment, and at least 60 percent of the outstanding voting capital stock of registered enterprises in preferred areas of investment must be owned by Philippine nationals. Under the Om- nibus Investments Code, foreign investments in new enterprises not registered under Book I (In- vestment with Incentives) must obtain prior au- thority from the BOI. Authority will be granted unless the proposed investment (1) would conflict with existing constitutional provisions and laws reg- ulating the degree of required ownership by Philip- pine nationals in the enterprise; (2) would pose a clear and present danger of promoting monopolies or combinations in restraint of trade; (3) would be made in an enterprise engaged in an area being adequately exploited by Philippine nationals; (4) would conflict or be inconsistent with the In- vestment Priorities Plan in force at the time the investment is proposed; or (5) would not contribute to the sound and balanced development of the na- tional economy on a self-sustaining basis. Invest- ments in the form of foreign exchange or other assets actually transferred to the Philippines must also be registered with the Central Bank. The BOI assesses and appraises the value of such assets other than those in foreign exchange. Gold The Central Bank purchases the entire output of the ten domestic primary gold producers who are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 PHILIPPINES required to sell their production to the Central Bank. The Central Bank also purchases the gold recovered and offered for sale by small-scale pro- ducers or panners and silver ore by-product from copper smelting operations of the Philippines Asso- ciated Smelting and Refining Corporation. Small gold panners are exempt from the mandatory sale of gold to the Central Bank. Producers are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso- U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official international reserves. Gold in any form other than jewelry may be im- ported only for industrial and artistic purposes, and any person desiring to import gold must secure a license from the appropriate department of the Central Bank. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines as follows: a 1-Peso Paul VI coin (1970); a 1,000-Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975); a 1,500-Piso IMF- IBRD coin (1976); the 1,500-Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coins (1977 and 1978); a 5,000-Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1977); a 2,500-Piso Douglas MacArthur centenary coin (1980); a 1,500-Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1980 and 1981); a 1,500-Piso Bataan-corregidor coin (1982); and a 2,500-Piso Aquino-Reagan coin (1986). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 960 (Sections 175 and 176), dated October 21,1983. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Exports of gold and/or gold-bearing mate- rials, including jewelry, in any shape, form, or quantity, require a prior written authorization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement August 16. Rules governing the use of the Philip- pine peso and other ASEAN currencies in intra- ASEAN trade were issued (Circular No. 1248). September 13. The guidelines governing the pur- chase and sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks were issued (Circular No. 1251). Under the guidelines, the buying rate for spot transactions must not be less than 1 percent below the reference rate of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines, while the spot selling rate must not be more than 2 percent above the reference rate; for transactions other than spot, the buying rate must not be less than 1 percent below the spot buying rate, while the selling rate must not be more than 1 percent above the spot selling rate. Imports and Import Payments January 3. The period of importation of completely built-up second vehicles for taxi use authorized un- der Memorandum Order No. 203 (Series of 1988) was extended to December 31, 1990 from Decem- ber 31, 1989 (Memorandum Order No. 272). January 23. The rates of import duties on 104 arti- cles under Section 104 of Presidential Decree No. 1464, known as the Tariff and Customs Code of 1978 (as amended) were modified (National Emer- gency Memorandum Order No. 8). The items af- fected included buses, bus engines and chassis, agricultural machinery and spare parts, shipping vessel parts, veterinary medicines, and farm insecticides. January 31. Applications for imports originating from the state trading countries were required to be supported by import authorizations issued by the Philippine International Trading Corporation (Cir- cular Letter). February 12. The revised list of items contained in Central Bank Circular Nos. 1181 and 1208, whose importation is subject to preshipment inspection regardless of value, was provided for guidance and reference for all authorized agent banks (Memoran- dum to Authorized Agent Banks No. 2). February 27. The guidelines covering settlement of past due D/A (documents against acceptance) and O/A (open account) obligations (i.e., those that have remained outstanding for more than 360 days from bill of lading date) were issued pursuant to Mone- tary Board Resolution No. 174 dated February 16, 1990 (Circular No. 1225). The importation of 15 products listed in the annex attached to Circular No. 1231 w#s no longer subject to the approval of the Bureau of Import Services of the Department of Trade and Industry. Existing clearances/permits required from the agencies other than those indicated would continue to be required according to existing laws, presidential de- crees, and LOIs. Spare parts for cars, trucks, utility vehicles, motorcycles, and engines were affected. March 19. The rates of import duty on certain articles as provided under the Tariff and Customs Code of 1978 (as amended) were modified in order to implement the minimum 50 percent margin of preference on certain products that are included in the brand-to-brand complementation scheme for the automotive industry in accordance with the basic agreement on ASEAN Industrial Complemen- tation (Executive Order No. 396). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 399 April 30. Macao was included under the coverage of the Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme, and the limit on the value of imports to be covered by the preshipment inspection was lowered to US$2,500 from US$5,000 (Memorandum amending Joint Order No. 1-87). May 14. The Department of Transportation and Communications, the Metro Manila Transit Corpor- ation, and the Philippine National Railways were authorized to import, on behalf of bus and taxicab operators, 3,000 completely built-up or completely knocked-down buses and 10,000 units of com- pletely built-up or completely knocked-down units of automobiles, for public transportation purposes under a tax deferred payment plan (National Emer- gency Memorandum Order No. 22). May 22. The rates of import duty on gas oils and kerosene (including kerosene-type jet fuel) under Section 104 of Presidential Decree No. 1464, known as the Tariff and Customs Code of 1978 (as amended) were modified to 10 percent (National Emergency Memorandum Order No. 27). June 8. The rates of import duties on certain arti- cles as provided for in Section 104 of Presidential Decree No. 1464, known as the Tariff and Customs Code of 1978 (as modified by National Emergency Memorandum Order No. 8, Series of 1990) were modified (Executive Order No. 404). June 18. The rates of import duties on certain imported articles as provided for in the Tariff and Customs Code of 1978 (as amended) were modified in order to implement the decisions of the Third ASEAN Summit and the Twenty-Seventh Meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism. The modi- fications would provide a minimum level of 25 per- cent margin of preference to certain items contained in the Philippine exclusion list and would widen the margin of preference in respect of certain items that are covered by the ASEAN Preferential Trading Ar- rangements to 50 percent within five years (Execu- tive Order No. 409). June 27. Authorized agent banks were advised that all applications to import "Used Inner Tubes for Tires" had to be referred to the Inter-Agency Com- mittee on Used Trucks and Engines, Department of Trade and Industry, for prior clearance. July 17. The importation and donation of food, clothing, medicines, and other relief and rehabilita- tion supplies to the victims of the July 16, 1990 earthquake were authorized under Section 105 of the Tariff and Customs Code of the Philippines (as amended) and Section 14 of the 1990 General Ap- propriations Act (Memorandum Order No. 306). July 19. The rates of duty and nomenclature of certain imported articles under Section 104 of Presi- dental Decree No. 1464, or under the Tariff and Customs Code of 1978 (as amended), were modi- fied in line with the establishment of a new tariff structure on four levels ranging from 3 percent to 30 percent (Executive Order No. 413). October 10. The scope of coverage of paragraph 3(d) of Joint Order No. 1-87 was clarified to the effect that only imports directly consigned to the Govern- ment of the Philippines or any of its corporations, agencies, and instrumentalities would be exempted from the preshipment inspection requirement (Cir- cular Letter). October 25. Joint Order No. 1-87 was amended, whereby the minimum import value to be covered by preshipment inspection was reduced to US$500 from US$2,500, and the certified list of items of the Bureau of Customs, per Central Bank Circular Nos. 1181 and 1208 (Memorandum to All Commercial Banks and All Concerned), was abolished. October 29. Section 14 of Circular No. 1029 was amended, whereby the minimum import value to be covered by letters of credit was reduced to US$500. Exports and Export Proceeds January 9. The rules governing the method of payment for commodity exports pursuant to Mone- tary Board Resolution No. 1109, dated December 28, 1989, were issued (Circular No. 1220). May 31. All authorized agent banks were advised that the Philippine Coconut Authority had in- formed the Central Bank that all existing export floor prices for coconut products and by-products, except for fresh young coconut exports to Taiwan Province of China, had been abolished. September 14. All authorized agent banks were informed that all export applications (Report of For- eign Sales, Export Declarations, or Applications for Export Permit) covering dried coconut need not be referred to the Central Bank for approval before shipment, provided that these applications were in accordance with all other existing rules (Memoran- dum to Authorized Agent Banks No. 10). October 3. All authorized agent banks were ad- vised that prior central bank approval would not be required for exports to socialist and other countries with centrally planned economies (CPEs) and for exports of gold-bearing jewelry. In the case of ex- ports to socialist and other CPEs, however, export clearance from the Philippine International Trading Corporations would continue to be required in line with Letter of Instructions No. 444 issued by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 PHILIPPINES President of the Philippines dated August 9, 1976 (Memorandum to authorized Agent Banks No. 12). November 9. All exporters were permitted to have access to a U.S. dollar-based working capital credit facility of the Foreign Currency Deposit Units of local commercial banks without prior central bank approval, subject to certain conditions (Circular No. 1262). November 28. Memorandum to Authorized Agent Banks No. 13 stipulated that foreign exchange re- ceipts from exports remitted through the local bank- ing system after 60 days of shipment date, or beyond such period as may in special cases be au- thorized by the Central Bank, must be converted to Philippine pesos at the minimum buying rate pre- vailing on the last day of the authorized period, as provided for under Central Bank Circular No. 1251, dated September 13, 1990. Capital January 26. Item C of Circular No. 983 (dated De- cember 6, 1983), pertaining to foreign guarantees covering peso obligations of domestic firms, was amended (Circular No. 1225). February 26. Authorized agent banks were in- formed that applications for registration with the Central Bank, through the Management of External Debt Department, and foreign guarantees for peso obligations of local firms shall be submitted within the prescribed period, with the required supporting documents and properly endorsed by an autho- rized officer of the servicing agent bank (Circular Letter). March 7. The guidelines and implementing rules of the Central Bank governing foreign borrowings were revised, in particular, those with respect to (1) the prescribed prior Central Bank approval, (2) projects eligible for foreign financing, (3) ac- ceptable terms of loans, (4) policies on repayment, and (5) application procedures (Circular No. 1232). March 9. The implementation of Central Bank Cir- cular No. 1232 was clarified to the effect that all government foreign loans, including government- owned and controlled corporations as well as pri- vate firms, would require the prior approval of the Central Bank, through the Management of External Debt Department (Circular Letter). June 18. Memorandum Circular (dated Novem- ber 18, 1983), which required the registration with the Central Bank of the renewal, extension, or roll- over of public sector foreign obligations and private financial sector borrowers pursuant to the standstill telex request dated October 14, 1983 of the Philip- pine Government to the international financial com- munity, was revised. July 24. Central Bank Circular No. 1028, dated October 12, 1984, was amended, with the addition of a new subparagraph on foreign exchange buyers (Circular NA. 1247). August 22. Section II.3 of Circular No. 1232 was amended to allow foreign loans to finance foreign exchange costs as well as up to 50 percent of local costs of private sector projects (Circular No. 1249). December 17. Foreign exchange receipts from Cen- tral Bank Authorized Foreign Exchange Buyers, self-funded letters of credit, self-funded payments on DA/OA terms, and surrender of foreign ex- change proceeds from FCDU loans to exporters were included in the "Codes for Invisible Acquisi- tions" of commercial banks and special goverment banks. December 20. Revised guidelines relating to the Philippine Government's program for the conver- sion of external debt into equity investments in Phil- ippine enterprises were issued (Circular No. 1267). Guidelines were issued, pursuant to Section 126 A.2 of Central Bank Circular No. 960 dated Octo- ber 21, 1983, under which Expended Foreign Cur- rency Deposit Units may invest in longer-term for- eign currency debt instruments (whether readily marketable or not) without need for prior central bank approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position on January 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Poland is the Zloty (100 groszy = 1 zloty). Before January 1, 1990, the exchange rate of the zloty against the currencies of countries except the members of CMEA,1 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was deter- mined on the basis of a weighted basket of curren- cies. Following a depreciation of 31.6 percent on January 1, 1990, the zloty was pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of Zl 9,500 per US$1, and the exchange rates between the zloty and other con- vertible currencies have been determined on the basis of the exchange rates between the currencies concerned and the U.S. dollar on international markets. The National Bank of Poland (NBP) quotes ex- change rates for the European Currency Unit (ECU), the SDR, and the currencies of 29 countries2 considered market economies; although it does not deal in the bank notes and coins of a limited number of the currencies,3 it stands ready to effect transac- tions in all of them. Buying and selling rates are set with margins of 0.5 percent around the middle rate, except for notes and coins, for which the margins are set at 2 percent. Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the relevant currencies in international markets and are set daily. The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars on January 31, 1991 were Zl 9,453 and Zl 9,549, respectively, per US$1. There are no ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial bank- ing sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of the currencies of market economies. The Council of Banks sets maximum allowable commis- aThe participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Ira- nian rials, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Saudi Arabian rivals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. 3Indian rupees, Iranian rials, Irish pounds, Kuwaiti dinars, Libyan dinars, and Saudi Arabian rivals. sions and charges on foreign exchange transactions in line with international practices. These levies are paid in zlotys (foreign currency) by domestic (for- eign) customers. The exchange rate on the parallel exchange mar- ket, in which na tural persons are allowed to trans- act freely, is determined by market forces, and may d i f fer from the official rate set by the NBP.4 However, interest rate policy is geared in part to limiting the d ifferen t ial between the two ex- change rates, and, during 1990, the parallel mar- ket exchange rate remained closely in line with the official rate. Until the end of 1990, most of Poland's trade and financial settlements with CMEA member coun- tries were effected in transferable rubles (TR) through the International Bank for Economic Coop- eration (IBEC). The clearing ruble was used for most settlements with Albania and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea and for some settlements with Democratic Kampuchea and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Official exchange rates for transferable and clearing rubles are set by the NBP and published each Monday. On January 1, 1990, the zloty was depreciated by 21.4 percent against the transferable ruble, to Zl 2,100 per TR I.5 Buying and selling rates for transferable and clearing rubles are quoted with a spread of 0.5 percent around the middle rate. On January 31, 1991, the buying and selling rates for the zloty against transferable and clearing rubles were Zl 2,090 and Zl 2,110, respec- tively, per 1 ruble. Since January 1, 1991, however, almost all trade with former CMEA countries has been conducted at world market prices and settled in convertible currencies; a limited amount of trade under pre-existing contracts continued to be trans- acted in transferable rubles through the end of March 1991. The NBP also quotes weekly exchange rates for the zloty against the currencies of other CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea for certain noncommer- cial settlements (e.g., diplomatic representation 4Foreign exchange bureaus (kantory) require licenses to oper- ate in the parallel exchange market. 5Since early June 1990, however, an exchange rate of Zl 1,000 per TR 1 applied to exports not covered by the protocol; since February 1991, an exchange rate of Zl 100 per TR 1 has been applied to exports not covered by the protocol. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 POLAND expenses, international travel, scholarships, etc.).6 Buying and selling rates (including for notes and coins) are set with margins of 0.5 percent around the middle rate. with the procedures set forth in those agreements.7 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settle- ment is made in a convertible currency. Administration of Control The authority to make basic changes in the Ex- change Regulation Law rests with the Parliament. Implementing regulations are promulgated by the Minister of Finance in the form of general foreign exchange permits or by the president of the NBP in the form of individual permits. General permits are issued for all residents and nonresidents, or for a specified group thereof. Procedures for issuing in- dividual permits are established by the president of the NBP in cooperation with the Minister of Fi- nance. The authority for the enforcement of the foreign exchange regulations rests with the Minister of Finance, who exercises related functions mainly through the president of the NBP. However, deci- sions concerning individual foreign exchange per- mits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Admin- istrative Court (SNA). Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months after returning to Poland. There are surrender re- quirements for export proceeds and pensions from abroad and for foreign visitors. Residents other than foreign citizens must report their property holdings abroad to the NBP. The same applies to nonresidents with property in Poland. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the Min- ister of Finance and the bodies responsible to him, the NBP, the foreign exchange banks, customs of- fices, the border guard, and post offices. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Poland notified the Fund on September 11, 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current in- ternational transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Po- land has multilateral and bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance 6Since January 1,1991, travelers to CMEA countries have been required to use convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Polish residents (natural and juridical persons) can hold foreign exchange in the form of currency, stocks, bonds, and so on. Three types of foreign currency accounts are available: (1) convertible cur- rency accounts "A"; (2) foreign exchange accounts for foreign settlements, "ROD"; and (3) Bank PKO, S.A. deposit certificates. (1) Accounts "A" are held by natural persons and can be freely credited with convertible currency brought in or transferred from abroad and/or de- posited without the requirement of a declaration of the sources of the funds. Account holders may use the funds freely to effect transfers abroad, to buy goods and services, to finance tourist travel abroad by them or other persons, and to effect gifts to family members or other persons. The funds on deposit cannot be used to effect settlements be- tween individuals, but funds withdrawn in foreign currency can be resold to the foreign exchange bu- reau (kantory). Withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the prevailing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Interest, paid in foreign exchange, is earned at the following annual rates: for accounts maintained in French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, 4 percent on call deposits, 8 percent, 9 percent, and 10 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three- year term deposits; and for accounts maintained in deutsche mark and Swiss francs, 3 percent on call deposits, 7 percent, 8 percent, and 9 percent, re- spectively, on one-, two-, and three-year term deposits. (2) Foreign exchange accounts for foreign settlements, "ROD," are held by juridical persons. Before Jan- uary 1, 1990, ROD accounts could be credited with foreign exchange retained against exports in con- vertible currencies. Since January 1, 1990, although all foreign exchange receipts from exports, in princi- ple, must be surrendered, juridical persons have 7A11 bilateral payments agreements maintained by Poland were effectively terminated by December 31, 1990, with all new contracts being made in convertible currencies. However, in some cases (Brazil, Lebanon, and Nepal), new agreements spec- ifying that trade is to take place in convertible currencies had not been signed. Also, in the People's Republic of China, Egypt, Greece, India, and the Islamic Republic of Iran, outstanding balances may still be settled under the bilateral agreement. At the end of December 1990, Poland still maintained an operative bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 403 been allowed to retain foreign exchange accumu- lated in "ROD" accounts before that date. The funds, however, cannot be used for settlement be- tween enterprises. Interest is paid in foreign ex- change at the annual rates of 3 percent, 4 percent, and 5 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three-year deposits. Deposits on current accounts do not earn interest. (3) Bank PKO, S.A. deposit certificates are issued by the Bank PKO, S.A. in convertible currencies. The sources of funds need not be declared. Interest pay- able in foreign currency after each six-month period is earned at the following annual rates: 3 percent, 8 percent, and 9 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three-year deposits. The deposit certifi- cates are issued in U.S. dollars in denominations of US$100 and US$500.8 Resident individuals and enterprises may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the express permission of the NBP. Such permission is granted only on "proof of necessity." Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and natural persons are free to keep both convertible currency and zloty accounts. (1) Nonresidents may maintain convertible cur- rency accounts (accounts "C") at the NBP, the Bank Handlowy, the Bank PKO, S.A., or one of the com- mercial banks. These accounts can be credited with funds brought in or transferred to Poland, with transfers from other accounts "C," and with con- vertible currency amounts legally acquired in Po- land. Deposits are freely transferable abroad, and may be used to make gifts to residents. The funds earn interest in foreign currency. Interest rates on accounts "C" of natural persons are fixed by banks and are paid at an annual rate in the range of 3 per- cent to 5 percent for demand deposits, and in the range of 7 percent to 11 percent for term deposits (depending on the account currency, the time limit, and the rates on international money markets). In- terest rates on accounts "C" of juridical persons are fixed at the same rates, except demand deposits, which do not earn interest. (2) Nonresidents are free to open and hold zloty accounts. Depositors must declare the source of the zlotys when making deposits into such accounts. This declaration requirement aims to ensure that 8These deposit certificates are distinct from Bank PKO cou- pons, which, until the end of December 1990, could be used to buy "internal exports" in hard currency (PEWEX) stores. Since January 1,1991, all transactions at stores have been conducted in domestic currency and PKO coupons can no longer be used. Bank PKO, S.A. would repurchase outstanding coupons at a 10 percent discount. payments into the accounts result from contracts or other operations that comply with the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Apart from zlotys legally earned in Poland, these accounts may also be cred- ited with foreign exchange converted into zlotys at the official exchange rate. Permits for conversion back into foreign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These ac- counts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also deposit their earnings on savings bank books, on which interest is paid. Deposits on zloty accounts may be transferred to other nonresidents or residents. Such transfers require a foreign ex- change permit, except for gifts to residents. Permits for transfers to nonresidents are granted only for transfers to family members. Permits for transfers to residents are granted without any restriction. Imports and Exports Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of im- ports of radioactive materials and military equip- ment, and temporary imports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing. Licenses are re- quired for imports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral settlements. The Customs Law allows for the intro- duction of import quotas, but none were in place during 1990. Export quotas cover only (1) items subject to import restrictions by other countries; and (2) coal, steel scrap, live animals, pork, and sugar. Export licenses are required for (1) goods subject to export quotas; (2) exports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral settlements; (3) temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing; and (4) 16 items (mainly raw materials, intermediate products, and some agricultural prod- ucts) to help maintain balance in the domestic mar- ket. Nonresidents in Poland (persons domiciled abroad but not foreign corporate bodies operating in Poland) are required, temporarily, to apply for export permits. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HCDCS). For most-favored-nation (MFN) countries, the average tariff rate is 8.9 percent, with rates of zero to 10 per- cent for 45 percent of items, 11-20 percent for 30 percent of items, 21-30 percent for 8 percent of items, and 30-100 percent for the remaining items. On June 29, 1990, tariffs on a large range of raw materials and capital goods were suspended or cut ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 POLAND in half until the end of 1990, lowering the average tariff rate to about 4 percent.9 For imports originat- ing in countries not enjoying MFN status, the rates of duty are twice as high, except for cases in which the MFN rate is zero, where a 25 percent rate is imposed. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the General System of Preferences. Also, imports from 42 de- veloping countries, tropical products from chapters 6 to 24 of the HCDCS, and many goods from chap- ters 32 and 94 of the HCDCS that are of interest to developing countries enter the country duty free. For the remaining goods imported from developing countries, duties are reduced to 30 percent of the MFN rate. There are some special regulations per- taining to border trade with the U.S.S.R. Imports are subject to stamp duties and turnover taxes at rates similar to those on domestic goods. Exports, with the exception of coal, are free from turnover taxes. Duties and turnover taxes on im- ports for export production are refunded. All foreign currency receipts from exports must be declared, repatriated within 2 months of re- ceipts, and surrendered in part to the Polish foreign exchange banks within 14 days after receiving notice that foreign exchange has been deposited in the exporters' account in Poland. Nonresidents may take out of Poland, free of customs duty, souvenirs with a value of up to a specified amount in local currency. However, they may export goods bought in hard currency stores up to the value of foreign currencies declared at the point of first entry and adjusted for reasonable liv- ing expenses. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible expenses arising from mer- chandise transactions, including insurance and transportation costs, are permitted freely if related to trade transactions. All other invisible transactions are carried out under either a general or an individ- ual permit. Foreign exchange for such payments is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. In principle, permission for tourist travel to coun- tries other than members of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is granted only if means of support abroad is assured. This requirement can be met in one of the following ways: (1) living expenses while abroad are covered by nonresidents; (2) living expenses while abroad Subsequently, the suspensions and reduced rates were ex- tended through June 30, 1991. are covered from the resident's own funds, held in an "A" or acquired in the free market; or (3) travel is with an authorized tourist group. Travelers may take out of Poland the equivalent of US$500 in con- vertible currencies without official permission. Doc- umentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts exceeding this limit. For official and business travel, separate al- lowances are established by the Ministry of Finance to reflect reasonable costs. Business travelers may take out up to the equivalent of US$10,000 from the foreign currency accounts maintained by the enter- prises that employ them, for the purchase of goods and services associated with their business activity or travel expenses. Polish nationals departing Poland are permitted to take abroad convertible foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks in amounts of up to US$1,000, or the equivalent, purchased from for- eign exchange banks for the purpose of paying out- standing obligations to foreign nationals resulting from the purchase of movable assets and proprie- tary interests, or from transportation freight for- warding, and insurance services. When leaving Po- land, tourists from convertible currency area countries can reconvert zlotys up to the equivalent they brought into Poland, provided that the amount is not more than that originally converted into zlotys less the required conversion amounts. Residents may, without approval, bring into or take out of the country domestic bank notes and coins in an amount not exceeding Zl 500,000 a person. Nonresi- dents from CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea may bring into or take out of the country zlotys up to the amount certified by their domestic banks. On condition of reciprocity, residents may remit pensions and annuities in convertible foreign ex- change at the official exchange rate to nonresidents that are entitled to such payments on the basis of a ruling from the social security administration. Busi- ness entities may use their "ROD" accounts to pay wages and salaries to nonresident employees. Also, businesses may use their ROD accounts or foreign exchange purchased from foreign exchange banks to pay outstanding obligations chargeable to (1) procurement costs, including costs of participa- tion in exhibitions and fairs, and advertising costs; (2) fees for agent representational services; (3) costs of repairing and overhauling imported ma- chinery and equipment; and (4) costs associated with the protection of intellectual property. Sim- ilarly, individuals may use their "A" accounts to pay for (1) membership in organizations abroad; (2) costs of court or arbitration proceedings up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 405 the equivalent of US$20,000 a case; (3) costs of ob- taining legal counsel and trial representation up to $50,000 or the equivalent in a given case; and (4) taxes, customs duties, or administrative fees payable abroad. Under certain circumstances, for- eign exchange may be made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresident relatives. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Po- land, other than in the context of employment in joint ventures, are determined on the basis of agree- ments between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises. Nonresident employees of joint ven- tures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their income. On condition of reciprocity and subject to an an- nual limit of Zl 6 million a person, residents are permitted to make certain remittances to CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Such remittances include wages and salaries paid to employees of diplomatic, com- mercial, and other official missions of these coun- tries, or paid on the basis of international agree- ments or labor contracts, stipends, per diems, or other payments connected with employment or ed- ucation in Poland, honoraria, damages, pensions, annuities, insurance premia, legacies, alimony up to Zl 100,000 a month, and family allowances up to Zl 40,000 a month. Profits on direct investment by nonresidents, other than those from joint ventures, can be transferred abroad up to a maximum annual amount of 10 percent of invested capital. If the investment yields a convertible currency export-to- import surplus in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the surplus can be transferred abroad, provided that the transfer does not exceed 50 percent of net profits after taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 percent of the sur- plus. On liquidation, the investor can transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. For joint ventures incorporated under the 1988 Law on Economic Ac- tivity with Participation of Foreign Parties, there are no limits on the transfer abroad by nonresidents of profits accruing from export proceeds net of import costs. Capital Parliament annually sets an upper limit on Po- land's permissible external indebtedness. Within this limit, foreign borrowing takes place on the basis of intergovernmental agreements and in various forms of bank and commercial credits. Under the provisions of the banking law, the NBP, Bank Hand- lowy, Bank PKO, S. A., and the Export Development Bank are empowered to borrow abroad, on short or long term, and to extend foreign credits. The Minis- ter of Finance sets limits on the foreign borrowing of the banks. With approval from the Minister of Finance, so- cialized enterprises may take financial loans from foreign banks. Subject to approval by the Minister of Foreign Economic Cooperation in consultation with the Minister of Finance, socialized enterprises are allowed commercial credits granted by foreign banks or suppliers to finance imports. To borrow abroad, a socialized enterprise also requires the consent of the domestic bank that holds its basic account. The Government has established general direc- tives for extending commercial credits relating to foreign tr^de activities. Socialized enterprises may extend such credits only with approval from the Minister of Foreign Economic Cooperation, who prescribes the contractual conditions in each case. Negotiable export documents are discountable by foreign banks. A general permit exists for the fi- nancing of exports of goods (other than fuels and raw materials) and services up to the equivalent of US$500,000, with repayment terms up to 360 days. Such a permit also exists for the financing of imports with a value of up to the equivalent of US$500,000 and with repayment terms up to three years. Until the entry into effect of the Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties on Jan- uary 1,1989, direct foreign investments in Poland in the field of small-scale industry were allowed under the law of July 6, 1982 (Polonia companies). Since January 1, 1989, all new foreign investments in Po- land have been governed by the Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties of De- cember 23, 1988, which replaced the 1986 Law on Companies with Foreign Capital Participation. Ex- isting Polonia companies could opt to avail them- selves of the provisions of the new foreign invest- ment law. Joint ventures founded under the law can have majority foreign participation and a foreign general manager. The statutory income tax rate is 40 percent but the joint venture is eligible for a tax holiday of three years. For joint ventures in priority sectors, the tax holiday can be extended by up to an additional three years at the discretion of the Coun- cil of Ministers. The minimum capital requirement is the equivalent of US$50,000, and remittances abroad are limited to the difference between exports and imports up to the amount of the foreign part- ners' profits in zlotys. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 POLAND Foreign investment by residents, either to estab- lish subsidiaries or affiliates, or to acquire an inter- est in a foreign enterprise, must be approved by the relevant minister, as well as by the Minister of Fi- nance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. All categories of capital transfers, including gifts, by resident natural persons require a foreign ex- change permit. However, for certain categories, such as inheritances, transfers are authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries. An annual limit of Zl 1 million is applied to all capital transfers. Emigrants to other countries must obtain an individual permit from the NBP to take out their convertible currency deposits with domestic banks. Other financial assets may be de- posited in a nonresident zloty account. Except in the form of an inheritance, nonresi- dents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with the permission of the foreign exchange authority. Gold Resident individuals may hold gold in any form. Trading in gold, other than jewelry, is subject to permission from the foreign exchange authorities. Polish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear value in foreign exchange. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Only one enterprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell gold in any form. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The exchange rate of the zloty was devalued against the currencies of countries other than CMEA members, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea by 31.6 percent, to Zl 9,500 = US$1, with buying and selling margins of 0.5 percent. At the same time, the exchange rate for the transferable ruble was depreciated by 21.4 percent, to Zl 2,100 - TR 1, with buying and selling margins of 0.5 percent. Administration of Control January 1. A revised Foreign Exchange Law (amending the Law of March 15, 1989) came into effect. It allowed the unrestricted purchase of for- eign exchange from the banking system to pay for all imports, property rights, and attendant services, except where payments can be made under a bilat- eral account or in transferable rubles. Payments for other services and capital transactions can be con- ducted under general or individual permits. House- holds were made eligible to make all payments through the parallel exchange market. As before, enterprises cannot participate in this market. The exchange retention privileges for enterprises and the foreign exchange auctions were eliminated; ex- port proceeds were required to be fully surrendered to the domestic banking system, although enter- prises were allowed to retain previously accumu- lated foreign exchange held in "ROD" accounts. The system of supplementary export incentives (tax relief, export subsidies, and preferential credits) was abolished. January 15. A general permit, allowing additional payments and transfers for current invisibles and some capital transactions, was issued. Resident and Nonresident Accounts October 15. "S" Accounts were abolished, with outstanding balances converted into zlotys. Imports and Exports January 1. The trade system was substantially lib- eralized under a new Customs Law (of Decem- ber 28, 1989). Licensing requirements were elim- inated for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of those for radioactive materials and military equipment. While the law allowed for the imposition of import quotas, none were imposed for 1990. Export quotas or licenses, previously applied to about 100 items, were re- duced to cover only (1) items, including textiles and agricultural products, subject to import restrictions by other countries; and (2) 20 items (mainly raw materials, intermediate products, fertilizers, and some agricultural products) to protect the domestic market. A temporary requirement was also im- posed in 1990 on nonresidents in Poland to apply for export permits (this covered only persons domiciled abroad but not foreign corporate bodies operating in Poland). The tariff structure for noncommercial imports was unified with that for commercial im- ports, with temporary surcharges on imports of al- cohol, tobacco, cosmetics, automobiles, consumer electronics, and some textiles; as a result, the aver- age tariff rate became about 9 percent. April 1. The number of items subject to export licensing was reduced to 16 from 24. A temporary ban was introduced on the importation of certain types of alcohol. May 1. The remaining export quotas were elimi- nated, except those for five items (coal, steel scrap, live animals, pork, and sugar). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 407 June 29. Tariffs on 4,500 items of raw materials and capital goods were suspended or reduced to 5 per- cent for the remainder of 1990, lowering the average tariff rate to about 4 percent. December 1. The number of items subject to export licensing was increased to 20. Changes During 1991 Exchange Arrangement January 9. Exchange rates of the zloty against con- vertible currencies other than the U.S. dollar began to be set on a daily rather than on a weekly basis. Capital Imports and Exports January 1. An amendment to the Foreign Invest- ment Law (the Law on Economic Activity with Par- ticipation of Foreign Parties of December 23, 1988) abolished income tax relief for joint ventures related to exports. January 1. Almost all trade with CMEA countries was conducted at world market prices and settled in convertible currencies; a limited volume of trade, however, would continue to take place in transfer- able rubles through the end of March, 1991. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Es- cudo, the exchange rate of which fluctuates within a band around a trade-weighted basket consisting of the main currencies of the countries participating in the exchange rate mechanism (ERM) of the Euro- pean Monetary System (EMS).1 Official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies2 are determined during the fixing session, in which the Bank of Portugal and the authorized banks partici- pate. These rates are a reference for the banks' bid and offer rates, which are freely set. A tax of 0.9 per- cent on all sales of foreign exchange is collected by the commercial banks. On December 31, 1990, the official basic rate for the U.S. dollar was Esc 133.6 per US$1. Banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal, among themselves, with other domestic nonbank economic agents, and with non- residents. Spot or forward foreign exchange opera- tions are carried out at freely negotiated exchange rates, and the maximum period allowed for forward transactions is one year. Foreign exchange opera- tions between banks and nonbank economic agents are always linked to purchases or sales of foreign exchange with escudos as a result of imports or exports of goods, services, current invisibles, or capital movements. There are no restrictions on for- eign exchange dealings among banks in Portugal and among nonresidents, except for forward pur- chases from or sales to nonresidents of escudos that are not directly associated with Portuguese exports of goods and services or for authorized capital trans- fers. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange deals in the domestic interbank market. Foreign exchange transactions of banks with the Bank of JThe basket consists of deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, and Spanish pesetas (the weight of the deutsche mark also reflects the relative importance of the Bene- lux countries). From 1977 to October 1990 (except from Decem- ber 1985 to April 1986), the exchange rate was adjusted monthly in relation to the currency basket, and depreciation objectives for the effective exchange rate of the escudo were announced peri- odically by the authorities. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European Currency Units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Macao patacas, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of PI .03 - HK$1. Portugal are, in principle, limited to the spot mar- ket. The degree of foreign exchange risks that banks are authorized to take must fall within the limits established by the Bank of Portugal for their foreign exchange positions (calculated as the sum of the absolute values of the positions in each foreign currency). On January 1, 1988, the Bank of Portugal became a participant in the European Monetary Coopera- tion Fund (EMCF), enabling it to participate in the mechanism for the creation of official ECUs through swaps of 20 percent of its gold and dollar reserves. These swaps are renewable every three months so as to ensure that contributions to the EMCF repre- sent at least 20 percent of the reserves of the Bank of Portugal. Portugal formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 12, 1988. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks autho- rized for this purpose. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Minis- try of Commerce and Tourism. The Direcgao-Geral do Comercio Externo in this Ministry is responsible for administering trade controls, and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Portugal notified the Fund, on September 12, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Turkey are settled on a monthly basis through a clearing account maintained in U.S. dollars. Export transactions with other coun- tries may be settled from a nonresident account with a resident bank in the quoted currencies (see footnote 2). Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account. The Portuguese escudo is accepted as the currency of 408 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 409 settlement for exports of goods, services, and capi- tal transfers to Portugal. Nonresident Accounts In 1990, the Bank of Portugal issued new regula- tions concerning nonresident accounts in escudos and in foreign currencies. 1. Nonresident Accounts in Escudos The opening of nonresident accounts in escudos is free. They must be non-interest-bearing demand accounts, and exceptions must be especially autho- rized by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident accounts in escudos may be cred- ited, without the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal, with: (1) the amount of escudos corre- sponding to transfers from abroad or sale? of for- eign currency and other means of payments de- nominated in foreign currencies; (2) the amount of escudos corresponding to payments to nonresi- dents of Portuguese imports of goods and services as well as outflows of private capital duly authorized by current legislation; and (3) transfers from other nonresident accounts in escudos. 2. Nonresident Accounts in foreign Currency Opening and transactions of nonresident ac- counts in foreign currency —demand accounts and time accounts up to one year —are not restricted. Time accounts of more than one year require special authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Interest rates are freely negotiable. Accounts may be de- nominated in any foreign currency acceptable to the banks. 3. Emigrants' Accounts Portuguese emigrants may open three types of deposit accounts: emigrants' savings accounts (time accounts in escudos); joint accounts with residents (deposit or time accounts in escudos); and time deposit accounts in foreign currency. a. Emigrants' savings accounts may be credited with the equivalent amount in escudos of remittances from abroad received through the banking system or in the form of an international postal order, with the equivalent in escudos of external means of pay- ment sold to credit institutions by emigrants, with transfers from other accounts of the same owner (emigrants' savings accounts or accounts in foreign currency), and with interest due on such deposits. These accounts may be debited without restriction. b. Joint accounts with residents are similar to resi- dents' deposit accounts and can be in the form of either demand or time deposits. These accounts may be credited with funds from abroad (similar to crediting emigrants' savings deposits) or with funds from domestic sources. These accounts may be deb- ited without restriction, except for transfers to other types of emigrants' accounts or abroad. Transfers abroad are subject to the regulations that apply to current transfers. c. Time deposit accounts in foreign currencies may be credited with remittances from abroad, with sales of external means of payment by emigrants, and with transfers from other accounts in foreign cur- rency of the same owner and with interest due. These accounts may be debited without restriction. Interest income from all types of emigrants' de- posits is taxed at the rate of 3.3 percent a year. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency The opening of resident accounts in foreign cur- rency requires special authorization from the Bank of Portugal, unless the holder is a bank. Without prior authorization, banks may open, at home or abroad, demand accounts or time accounts up to one year in any currency at freely negotiated inter- est rates. Imports and Import Payments Whenever the value of imports exceeds the equiv- alent of Esc 100,000, import declarations are issued for statistical surveillance purposes and are granted automatically in four to five days. Imports of certain products are subject to an import license, and al- lowed under specific conditions or prohibited, mainly for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial fraud. For imports free of quantitative restriction, the importer is required to present the import contract and Form 8 of EC (European Community) Single Customs Declaration to obtain the foreign exchange necessary to settle the contract. For agricultural products covered by a common market organiza- tion, the EC may require an import certificate. Im- ports subject to quantitative restrictions require an import license. The validity of the import declara- tion is 6 months for customs clearance purposes, and the settlement period is 12 months. Payments after one year of customs clearance, and prepay- ments exceeding three months or exceeding 25 per- cent of the import value of capital goods or exceed- ing 10 percent of the import value of other goods require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. According to the Act of Accession of Portugal to the EC, imports of some agricultural products are subject to temporary restrictions when originating in EC and third countries. A few industrial products are subject to quantitative restrictions only when they originate in third countries. A more extensive restricted list, which applies to Japan, includes manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 PORTUGAL and a small number of finished products, including motorcycles. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invis- ibles must be made through credit institutions au- thorized to operate in foreign exchange and are generally free of quantitative restrictions, although prior verification by the Bank of Portugal is some- times required. For most transactions, ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized credit institutions may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not maintain special clearing arrangements, the authorized credit institutions may grant foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 100 million a transaction for most types of invisibles, particularly services. However, unrequited private transfers in excess of the equivalent of Esc 2.5 million are subject to prior verification by the Bank of Portugal. For tourism and other private travel, authorized credit institutions have been allowed to grant any amount in foreign currency since March 1, 1989. However, whenever requested by the customs authorities, travelers residing in Portugal must produce docu- ments proving acquisition of foreign currency on a regular basis in excess of the equivalent of Esc 1 billion. In addition, tourists may take out of the country Esc 100,000 in domestic currency for each trip.3 The export of larger amounts of domestic or foreign currency requires prior authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Applications must be submit- ted to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for pay- ments of items not referred to above and for pay- ments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Code, individual remittances of profits and divi- dends and the repatriation of proceeds of liquida- tion of direct foreign investment in Portugal are free of restrictions, although prior verification by the Bank of Portugal is required; in the case of remit- tances of dividends and profits, verification is re- quired only if amounts exceed the equivalent of Esc 100 million. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports, which are not subject to quantitative restrictions under EC regulations, are free of restric- 3The use of credit cards abroad has been liberalized. However, legislation in force envisages the possibility of reimposing restric- tions on the use of credit cards by the Bank of Portugal whenever deemed necessary. Also, payments of travel and accommodation expenses abroad for tourism purposes have been liberalized if paid through a Portuguese travel agency. tions. Exports without concomitant foreign ex- change or escudos inflows require prior authoriza- tion from the Bank of Portugal unless they are set- tled through clearing. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank the total amount of their export proceeds within 15 days unless proceeds are entered to the credit of an authorized foreign exchange account. The period for settlement of merchandise exports is, as a rule, fixed at 6 months from the date of customs clearance; settlement periods exceeding 12 months require prior approval from the Bank of Portugal. Payment of commission expenses abroad and freight, insurance, or other charges is subject to the regulations that govern payments for invisibles. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may freely receive pay- ments in escudos and in foreign currency for invis- ibles from residents of countries with which Portu- gal does not have special clearing arrangements. Such receipts must be effected through credit in- stitutions and do not require prior authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered unless they are credited with an authorized foreign exchange account. Autho- rized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign bank notes or coins for settle- ment of external transactions without prior approval from the Bank of Portugal. There are no limits on the amount of domestic currency notes resident and nonresident travelers may bring into the country. Capital As of January 1, 1986, the effective date of Portu- gal's accession to the EC, foreign exchange regula- tions distinguish between capital transactions with residents of EC member countries and residents of non-EC member countries, although in most cases the distinction is not relevant in practice. Most pay- ments will be free of restrictions after a transitional period of four to seven years, depending on the type of transaction. Foreign direct investments in Portu- gal are permitted in all sectors except those that, under the general law, are closed to private enter- prise corporations. Since July 1986, the new foreign investment regulations stipulate that new direct in- vestment projects are subject only to prior declara- tion to the Portuguese Foreign Trade Institute and will be considered approved if the Institute does not reply within 60 days. However, foreign direct in- vestment in the form of long-term loans must be verified in advance by the Bank of Portugal. In both ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 411 cases, in 1988 new foreign direct investments by EC residents of less than ECU 2.1 million were automat- ically approved, and this limit was increased by ECU 0.3 million a year until the end of 1990. All restrictions on foreign direct investments by resi- dents of EC countries were eliminated at the end of 1990. The transfer of the proceeds of liquidation of foreign direct investment including capital gains is free of restrictions. Foreign direct investments in EC countries by Portuguese residents require special authorization until 1993, when they will be free of restrictions. However, since November 1988, investments in EC and other member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) have been liberalized up to Esc 50 million. Portfolio investments by residents in foreign cur- rency securities listed in officially recognized stock exchanges are not restricted. Real estate has been able to be freely purchased in Portugal since January 1,1986, except for hous- ing already built and land for agricultural pur- poses, which must be authorized by the Bank of Portugal until December 31,1990. The proceeds of their liquidation could be freely transferred up to ECU 140,000 in 1988, and this ceiling will be in- creased by ECU 20,000 a year until 1991. Pur- chases of real estate in EC countries by Portuguese residents will be free of restrictions as of 1993. Purchases by nonresidents of domestic securities quoted in the stock exchange have been free of restrictions since Janua ry 1, 1986. Most trade credits and personal capital transfers have also been free of restrictions since January 1, 1986. Other types of capital transactions must have prior authorization from the Bank of Portugal and, in the case of capital transactions exceeding Esc 5 million and with a maturity of more than one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. The revisions of Portugal's reservations concern- ing the OECD Code of Liberalization of Capital Movements have generally extended liberalization of capital transactions with the OECD countries, which is similar to that extended to the EC member countries. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase, sale, import, export, or re-export of bullion or coins and unworked gold, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, must be carried out by a bank and authorized in advance by the Bank of Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement March 9. The rules governing foreign exchange operations and settlements of accounts with other countries were revised, whereby these operations were required to be channeled through authorized banks. Residents were required, as before, to sur- render foreign exchange receipts to these banks except in cases where accounts can be settled through crediting and debiting of amounts denomi- nated in the same currency. June 25. The authorization for nonresidents to engage in forward purchases of escudos was sus- pended for a period of 90 days; operations that are directly associated with Portuguese exports of goods and services or authorized capital transfers were exempted from this suspension. September 25. Forward market facilities for the es- cudo for nonresidents were established but were restricted to purchases and sales of escudos directly related to Portuguese imports or exports of goods and services and authorized capital transfers. October 1. The Bank of Portugal allowed the ex- change rates to fluctuate within a band around a trade-weighted basket consisting of the main cur- rencies of the countries participating in the ERM of the EMS. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency March 9. Subject to the authorization of the Bank of Portugal, resident corporations, which conduct a significant proportion of their business with for- eign countries, were allowed to open non- interest-bearing accounts in foreign currency, to be used mainly to channel payments to and re- ceipts f rom international transactions in goods, services, and capital. At the end of each month, the balance on these accounts was required not to exceed a certain percentage of the average amounts of payments or receipts in foreign cur- rency (whichever was larger) that were recorded in the previous year. Resident individuals were also freely allowed to open foreign currency ac- counts at home to support their portfolio opera- tions in foreign securities listed in stock ex- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 412 PORTUGAL changes. The maximum balance on these ac- counts at the end of each month was set at Esc 4 million. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) Payments for Invisibles March 9. The threshold limit for the requirement on resident travelers to document the regular ac- quisition of foreign currency was raised to Esc 1 billion from Esc 500 million. Capital March 28. The limits up to which residents can invest in foreign securities listed in stock exchanges of OECD member countries were raised as follows: legal entities, 20 percent of their total portfolio (or technical reserves in the case of insurance com- panies); and individuals, Esc 10 million. July 1. Portfolio investments by residents in for- eign currency securities that are officially listed in recognized stock exchanges abroad were fully liberalized. July 1. Enterprises drawing financial credits from abroad were required to deposit the equivalent of 40 percent of these credits in a nonremunerated account with the Bank of Portugal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 = SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates for the Qatar riyal in terms of the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6385 and QR 3.6415, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' exchange rates for trans- actions in U.S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The commercial banks' buying and sell- ing rates for other currencies are based on the Mon- etary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and on mar- ket rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official banking sector. In the commercial banking sector, importers may pur- chase foreign exchange in the forward market. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange con- trol authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Also prohibited are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, fire- arms, ammunition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Oth- erwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Im- ports of general goods are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 4.0 percent, which is the minimum rate applied by member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC); im- ports of steel are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 20 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be ex- ported freely. No requirements are attached to re- ceipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or on payments by residents or nonresidents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Foreign participation in small and medium-scale agri- cultural and industrial enterprises with invested capital of less than QR 250,000 is prohibited. For- eign participation is permitted in large-scale enter- prises provided that Qatar nationals control at least 51 percent of capital, unless the enterprise is viewed as facilitating the provision of a public service, in which case the Qatar participation requirement may be waived. In addition to this requirement, the en- terprise must have a domestic value added of at least 40 percent. Foreigners other than nationals of member states of the GCC are prohibited from busi- ness ownership in the trade sector. For major indus- trial projects, it is government policy to assume a minimum of 70 percent ownership. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 414 QATAR L tl Gold r™ j it M • j The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents (including private persons) may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell u • r i. u u j TJ i. j- gold in any form, at home or abroad. For trading purposes, the buying and selling of gold and pre- cious metals require an import license and are sub- ject to customs duty. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. r 10on ^u ^ . Changes During 1990 ° No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution° ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The official exchange rate used for all transactions in convertible currencies is defined in terms of a basket of six currencies reflecting the geographical pattern of Romania's trade and payments.1 Weekly adjust- ments are made in the leu/U.S. dollar rate (and, correspondingly, in the rates for all other quoted currencies) in such a way as to maintain the central point on the basket peg. On December 31,1990, the exchange rate was lei 34.71 = US$1. The National Bank of Romania quotes rates for 20 other curren- cies defined as "fully convertible"2 and for the Greek drachma, the Indian rupee, the Israeli new sheqel, and the Yugoslav dinar, based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned. The currency used for commercial transactions with the member countries of the Council for Mu- tual Economic Assistance (CMEA),3 Albania, and oie Democratic People's Republic of Korea, is the transferable ruble (TR); on December 31, 1990, the transferable ruble rate was lei 35 = TR 1. For non- trade transactions with the CMEA countries, Al- bania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, special exchange rates are established by multilateral or bilateral agreement. Romanians working in international organiza- tions or joint ventures, as well as those occasionally receiving foreign exchange income, are required to repatriate part of it as a contribution to a special fund for the training of staff involved in interna- aOn February 18,1991, an interbank foreign exchange market was introduced in which the exchange rate is determined through an auction-type fixing. Foreign exchange is freely avail- able through participating banks for all bona fide current account transactions, except for limited profit remittances by nonresi- dents. The official exchange rate is determined by the National Bank of Romania, and is applied to foreign exchange surren- dered by exporters and to sales of foreign exchange for imports of a limited number of products (e.g., crude oil, natural gas, coal, electricity, and certain industrial raw materials). The official ex- change rate (pegged to a basket of currencies) remains in effect. 2 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lux- embourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Turkish liras. 3The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. With effect from January 1,1991, all transactions with these countries take place in convertible currencies; the transfer- able ruble has been abolished. tional cooperation and for the maintenance of their families at home. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control The state monopoly for foreign trade operations was abolished under Decree Law No. 54, but all import and export transactions are subject to autho- rization granted by the Ministry of Trade and Tour- ism. Foreign currency proceeds from exports, other than retained earnings of 50 percent, must be sold to the Romanian National Bank, and foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from this bank. Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Romania, and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board >Decision No. 144-(52/51) of August 14, 1952, Ro- mania notified the Fund on November 26,1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Ro- mania has bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth ifi those agreements.4 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may main- tain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade and other commercial banks. There are three kinds of accounts. A-Accounts are maintained in convertible currencies, or in lei obtained for convert- ible currencies, from sales of precious metals, coins, 4As of December 31, 1989, Romania had bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Ghana, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Settlements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam took place through the multilateral payments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 416 ROMANIA or ingots, other than silver. B-Accounts are main- tained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any individual B-Account may be effected in only one such cur- rency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from other legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A-, B-, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies from which the funds were de- rived and for payments within Romania. C-Ac- counts may be debited only for domestic transac- tions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any further authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei with the Savings and Loan Bank. The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade may accept from nonresident customers time deposits in convertible currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in inter- national markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians work- ing abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Roma- nian Bank for Foreign Trade or other banks. The deposits may be used to make payments in foreign currency, at home or abroad, or to exchange into lei. Imports and Exports Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism for each commodity or group of commodities. The authorizations are not restrictive or discriminatory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all types of goods, regard- less of origin. The Ministry may take measures to curb imports, with a view to equilibrating the bal- ance of payments, for the protection of public health, or for reasons of national defense and the security of the state, in accordance with the provi- sions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Imports are subject to customs tariffs as stipu- lated in the import customs tariff regime, and tariff rates are on an ad valorem basis. With effect from January 1, 1991, the customs tariff regime has been modified. The modifications have involved elimina- tion of the discriminatory rates among economic agents, application of uniform rates irrespective of the end-use of products, and substantial reductions in high tariff rates. Also, customs facilities, as spec- ified under the international protocols, will be made available. Exporters are permitted to retain 50 percent of foreign exchange receipts from exports and are re- quired to sell the remainder to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade at the official exchange rate. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with foreign trade transactions require general or indi- vidual authorization, given by either the Ministry of Finance or another appropriate ministry. For travel outside the socialist countries, foreign exchange is provided up to the equivalent of US$75 a person every two years (one half of this amount for chil- dren) plus US$30 for those traveling by car. These allowances are granted subject to a foreign ex- change budget established on a quarterly basis for this purpose. Residents are also allowed to pur- chase in lei a railroad ticket to any European desti- nation and may purchase a second ticket in excep- tional circumstances. Air travel tickets can also be purchased with lei. The travel allowance to CMEA countries has been raised to lei 3,000 a person a year. Tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei. The tax on purchases of foreign exchange for travel was eliminated in Feb- ruary 1990. Before December 29,1989, foreign tourists travel- ing to Romania were subject —with numerous exceptions—to a foreign exchange conversion re- quirement of US$10 a day. This requirement was abolished on December 29,1989, when foreign tour- ists were allowed to bring in and take out unlimited amounts of foreign exchange (the amount they took out could not exceed the amount they brought in). Tourists are obligated to exchange foreign currency through authorized agents. Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Roma- nian citizens, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in spe- cialized shops against payment in convertible cur- rencies. The importation and exportation of Roma- nian notes and coins by travelers are prohibited. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign ex- change must be authorized by the Ministry of Fi- nance. Outward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permit- ted. For certain established categories, such as in- heritances, reciprocal agreements have been con- cluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. Before February 1, 1990, the Foreign Trade Law allowed inward foreign investment only through ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 417 joint ventures with a foreign ownership of 49 per- cent of total capital. Repatriation of capital and transfer of after-tax profits in foreign currency were guaranteed up to specified limits. The accounts of the company could be kept in an agreed currency. On March 14, 1990, a new Foreign Investment Law was adopted, which removed the limits on owner- ship of joint ventures and the required use of foreign currency for payment of local goods and services (including labor). Wholly foreign-owned firms, including banks, may operate in Romania. Transfers of profits are no longer subject to limits if paid out of foreign currency receipts; up to 8 percent of the initial capital contribution can be repatriated annually out of earnings in lei. This limit was raised to 15 percent in November 1990 at the discretion of the Romanian Agency for Foreign Investment. An automatic exemption from the income tax is granted to joint ventures for two years; further extension for up to three years can be granted at the discretion of the Ministry of Finance. Reduced tax rates apply to reinvested income. Gold The National Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transac- tions. The ownership by physical persons, for do- mestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The commercial and noncommercial rates against convertible currencies were unified at the level of lei 21 = US$1. The rate against the transferable ruble (TR) was set at lei 17 = TR1. The tax on purchases of foreign exchange at the non- commercial rate was abolished. Effective Novem- ber 1, 1990, the peg was set at lei 35 = US$1 and at lei 35 - TR1. (On February 18, 1991, an interbank foreign exchange market was introduced in which the exchange rate is determined through an auction- type fixing.) Administration of Control February 5. Under Decree Law 54, adopted in Feb- ruary 1990, the state monopoly for foreign trade transactions and the provision of foreign exchange was abolished. In principle, the law opened to small private firms all economic activity, including foreign trade, allowing them to finance imports with up to 50 percent of their export proceeds. Although prior licensing by the new Ministry of Trade and Tourism remained in place for state enterprises, the require- ment that foreign trade transactions be channeled through specified foreign trade organizations was abolished, and all enterprises became free to enter into foreign trade transactions directly or to use, at their option, specialized foreign trade firms. September 7. All exporters were allowed to main- tain foreign exchange retention accounts in which 50 percent of net export proceeds could be deposited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 15. The regulations on resident and non- resident accounts were liberalized. In particular, the requirement to deposit all foreign exchange in bank accounts was eliminated, and restrictions on the use of foreign exchange from these accounts were elimi- nated. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies began to yield interest payable in foreign exchange at an annual rate of 4 percent, and those in convertible currencies, at an annual rate of 11/2 per- cent. A commission of 1 percent payable in foreign exchange would apply to withdrawals of funds. Residents continued to be required to effect all for- eign exchange transactions through authorized agents only. Imports and Exports January. Central planning of foreign trade was abolished. Import controls began to be admin- istered through the issuance of licenses by the Min- istry of Trade and Tourism, and through letters of credit, which would be issued by the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade against these licenses. The issuance of licenses would be based on balance of payments considerations and sectoral priorities in the framework of an informal foreign exchange bud- get. With the exception of a temporary prohibition on exports of food products aimed at ensuring ade- quate domestic supply, enterprises would be free to export in line with their commercial considerations. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles April 26. The travel allowance was set at US$75 a person every two years (one half of this amount for children), plus US$30 for those traveling by car. Foreign exchange allowances would be granted in accordance with the foreign exchange budget to be established quarterly for this purpose. Residents were allowed to purchase with lei a railroad ticket to any destination in Europe once a year; in exceptional cases, a second trip would be allowed. Payment of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 418 ROMANIA air travel tickets in lei continued to be allowed. The travel allowance to CMEA countries was raised to lei 3,000 a person a year. (The tax on foreign ex- change purchased for travel purposes was abol- ished in February 1990.) May 16. In accordance with Decision No. 547, Romanian citizens employed abroad with com- panies with Romanian participation were required to transfer monthly to Romania a portion of their total income. The portion would be deposited in the bank account of the Romanian enterprise, in order to cover general expenses of the enterprise, includ- ing for development of foreign business relation- ships and provision of profits. Their contributions are to be calculated on a percentage basis, in accor- dance with the level of earnings, starting at a salary level of US$1,000. Romanian citizens employed by international organizations are not required to transfer foreign currency into the country. Persons earning less than US$1,000 net (after deducting taxes, social security contributions, rent, and hous- ing maintenance expenditures) are also exempt from these transfers. Capital March 14. A new Foreign Investment Law was adopted. The main provisions are (1) elimination of the ownership limit on joint ventures; (2) unre- stricted use of foreign currency to pay for local goods and services (including labor); (3) unre- stricted transfers of profits if paid out of foreign currency receipts; and (4) repatriation of earnings of up to the equivalent of 8 percent of the initial capital contribution a year. (This provision was liber- alized in November 1990 (Commercial Law No. 31), whereby the repatriation limit on earnings was raised to 15 percent, subject to the approval of the Romanian Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investment.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the SDR at RF 171.18 = SDR 1. This fixed relationship is used to determine the mid- point between buying and selling exchange rates set by the National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar and other currencies. Exchange rates against foreign currencies are based on the U.S. dol- lar value of the SDR basket currencies and the value in Belgian francs of other currencies, as published one business day earlier on the London market and by the National Bank of Belgium, respectively. On December 31, 1990, the midpoint between the buy- ing and selling rates for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar was RF 121.1192 per US$1. The buying and selling rates for all currencies are set at 1 percent above and 1 percent below the midpoint, respectively (± 2 percent for bank notes). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign bank notes. Purchases of trav- eler's checks are subject to a commission of RF 550 for amounts below RF 10,000, RF 800 for amounts from RF 10,000 to RF 50,000, and RF 700 plus 2 per mil for amounts above RF 50,000. Other outward and inward transfers are subject to a commission of 3 per mil, with a minimum of RF 200 and a max- imum of RF 5,000. Since March 1990, the National Bank of Rwanda has also authorized imports of goods financed with foreign exchange outside the official channel. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to autho- rized banks. Prescription of Currency To facilitate trade and other external transactions, the National Bank maintains agreements with the central banks of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) (Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire). Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency; balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Payments to and from the member countries of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA) (Bu- rundi, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zim- babwe) are made through the PTA's clearinghouse. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the National Bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign payments, except in border trade, are generally made by bank transfer; the Na- tional Bank may, however, authorize other means of payment, such as checks or telegraphic transfers. Exchange transactions with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa and all narcotics are prohibited. Certain categories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval from the competent authorities, regardless of origin and value. For reasons of health, the importation of veterinary medicines, disinfectants, insecticides, rodent poisons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to ap- proval of the pro forma invoices by the Ministry of Health. All imports valued (c .i .f .) at over RF 100,000 require licenses, as do those valued at less than RF 100,000, if payment is required in foreign ex- change. Import licenses for 16 items, including ce- ment, butter, cheese, corrugated iron, plastic prod- ucts, radio sets, blankets, toilet and powdered soap, candles, insecticides, and certain woven fabrics of man-made fibers, have been suspended. The National Bank levies a validation fee of 1 per- cent of the f.o.b. value on import licenses that in- volve use of official foreign exchange and on import licenses that are subject to inspection by interna- tional agencies; the validation fee for fuel is 0.1 per mil. The validation fee for other import licenses is RF 750 each. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the Na- tional Bank through an authorized bank. Unless otherwise specified, the approval of an import li- cense application constitutes an authorization to ob- tain the required foreign exchange. Since March 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 420 RWANDA 1990, the National Bank has also authorized imports of goods financed with foreign exchange outside official channels. The National Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation; these are valid for three months (six months for vehicle parts). License ap- plications are examined at the National Bank to pre- vent overinvoicing. Dealers of imported auto- mobiles are required to provide after-sale service for the vehicles. Used automobiles can be imported only if they are less than three years old, and the importer has to assure the availability of spare parts. Imports whose f.o.b. value on the pro forma in- voice is greater than RF 1.5 million in the case of ordinary licenses and RF 0.5 million in the case of global licenses are inspected by international agen- cies for quality and quantity in the country of origin1 before shipment, and, at the same time, prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clearance form must be sent to the National Bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the CEPGL, import licenses are replaced by CEPGL import notices. The Rwanda investment code grants special concessions to enter- prises under a contractual arrangement, which may imply exemption from import duties on certain types of equipment. The import tariff regime is gov- erned by the tariff code of October 1, 1987. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is re- quired for all payments for invisibles. Foreign ex- change is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport and other expenses (except insurance) connected with imports and ex- ports. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (except for payments through documentary credit payable on loading). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with an insurance company established un- der Rwanda law. Transfers of the salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under con- tract are made net of taxes, net of the employee's 1 Except for imports from Afghanistan, Albania, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, People's Republic of China, Com- oros, Djibouti, Gabon, Guinea, Iraq, Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia, Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya, Mali, Niger, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, Republic of Yemen, and Zaire. share of social security contributions, and after de- duction of local expenses. These expenses are calcu- lated by one of two formulas, at the employee's option: (1) 40 percent of gross monthly pay after tax and social security contributions, with a minimum of RF 50,000 a month; or (2) RF 70,000 a month for a head of household, plus RF 20,000 a month for each dependent in Rwanda. Transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed, whether engaged in a profession or established as independent traders, are also made net of taxes and after deduction of local expenses. A fee of RF 750 is levied for transfer authorizations other than those relating to income (broadly defined) received in Rwanda, for which a fee of 1 percent of the amount to be transferred is charged, with a minimum of RF 750. Net profits and dividends owed to nonresi- dents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Only traveler's checks in UAPTA (Unit of Account of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States) are issued to travelers to PTA member states. Foreign account holders travel- ing in the PTA region may purchase foreign media of payment other than traveler's checks in UAPTA. Sales of these checks are subject to prevailing ex- change regulations. The purchase in domestic currency of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the Na- tional Bank. Authorizations for the purchase of for- eign exchange for tickets and foreign exchange re- lating to travel for leisure, family, or religious reasons are suspended until further notice. Travel for business and official purposes is restricted to the essential minimum, and foreign residents working in Rwanda are allowed only one economy-class air- line ticket every two years of actual service in Rwanda; more than one trip is permitted only if the total cost of tickets does not exceed that of one full- fare ticket. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic bank notes up to RF 5,000. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic bank notes. , Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All ex- ports, except trade samples, personal and house- hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank for cer- tification, for which a fee of RF 750 is levied. A ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 421 declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. Payments for exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire must be col- lected no later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; this deadline is not applicable to ex- ports under CEPGL export notices, for which there is a quarterly clearing arrangement among the cen- tral banks. The maximum permissible period for repatriation of proceeds from exports to all other countries is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days of their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within eight days of their collection. Travelers from abroad may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes. Commercial banks are not per- mitted to import domestic bank notes. The law re- quiring that travelers declare foreign exchange on entering Rwanda was abolished on December 1, 1990. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely granted unless the transfer relates to a for- eign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law or to the personal effects of a for- eign national returning to his own country, pro- vided that he bought them with foreign exchange and sold them to a resident national. Enterprises considered to have national economic priority are exempted from the corporation tax for 5 to 15 years. Repatriation of dividends to foreign shareholders is allowed. Repatriation guarantees may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows; licenses for retransfer of these foreign cur- rencies are valid for one year but may be extended at the request of the beneficiary of financing. Outward transfer of proceeds from sales of real estate is suspended. Foreign refinancing of imports is sub- ject to guidelines limiting the number of eligible products, establishing a limit of 180 days from the date of shipment on the maturity of the financing, and specifying acceptable interest rates and commissions. Gold Trade in gold is restricted to dealers approved by the competent minister. Imports and exports of gold require licenses. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments March 5. Imports of goods financed with foreign exchange obtained outside official channels were permitted by the National Bank. November 9. A more liberal system of import li- cense allocation was announced; it will become effective by end-April 1991. Proceeds from Invisibles December 1. The law requiring that travelers de- clare foreign exchange on entering Rwanda was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) and is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1990, the buy- ing and selling rates were EC$2.67 and EC$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Kitts and Nevis formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 3, 1984. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts U.S. dollar currency accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the Ministry of Finance is required to operate other foreign currency ac- counts; such permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily residing in St. Kitts and Nevis. These accounts can be credited only with foreign currency earned or received from outside St. Kitts and Nevis and can be freely debited. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar currency account. Imports and Import Payments Most goods are imported under open general licenses. Individual licenses are required for im- ports that compete with local products unless they come from another member country of the Carib- bean Common Market (CARicoM).2 Payments for authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars are per- mitted on presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a bank, but payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval, except where the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are authorized to pay on presentation of documentary evidence. Where the currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the Ministry of Finance; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. Residents of St. Kitts and Nevis may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$1,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel for bona fide purposes. For busi- ness travel, allowances of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$5,000 a year a company. These allocations can be increased in bona fide cases with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Residents traveling abroad for medical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$1,000, which may be raised without any limitation, provided that a medical certificate is presented. There is a 7.5 per- cent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. Education allowances are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$250 a donor a year. Profits and divi- dends may be remitted in full, subject to confirma- tion of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB Currency Account or an approved U.S. dollar Foreign Currency Ac- count. Duties are levied on exports of lobster, sugar, and certain other products. JThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 423 Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Travelers to St. Kitts and Nevis may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital transfer their assets, with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Direct investments in St. Kitts and Nevis by non- residents do not require exchange control approval. The remittance of proceeds from earnings on, and liquidation of, such investments is permitted, sub- ject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Kitts and Nevis. All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted subject to payment of any taxes due. Emi- grants leaving St. Kitts and Nevis to take up resi- dence outside the area served by the ECCB may Gold There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, and holdings of gold for either numismatic or indus- trial purposes. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Sales of foreign ex- change by the commercial banks are subject to a tax of 1 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 30, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, Statistics, and Negotiating and applies to all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary products. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade; those for agri- cultural products are issued by the Ministry of Agri- culture. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in East- ern Caribbean dollars. Where justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payments for goods and services in a currency other than that of the country to which payment is to be made. irThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Nonresident (External) Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dent individuals or companies with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and are maintained in East- ern Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be cred- ited only with foreign d ra f ts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such ac- counts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, af ter ap- proval by the Ministry of Finance, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes and other specified payments, including payment for imports. As funds in an External Account are nor- mally convertible into a foreign currency, deposits to and withdrawals from such an account require exchange control approval by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts A Foreign Currency Account is defined as an account denominated in a currency other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. With the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, residents or nonresi- dents may open Foreign Currency Accounts with authorized dealers in St. Lucia. Such permission is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent pay- ments abroad. A resident or nonresident (whether an individual, firm, company, association, or in- stitution) wishing to open a Foreign Currency Ac- count must apply to the Ministry of Finance through an authorized dealer, stating the nature and estimated volume of receipts and payments in the desired foreign currency. All payments from a Foreign Currency Account require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance and are subject to the 1 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Where permission is granted, the authorized dealer must submit to the Ministry of Finance a monthly statement of account, together with full details of payments and receipts. This is to ensure that the conditions for holding foreign currency are observed. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be imported without import li- censes. Certain other commodities require indi- 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 425 vidual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Payments in foreign currency for autho- rized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs en- try. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. In June 1981, St. Lucia adopted the new rules of origin that govern the eligibility for duty-free treat- ment of goods produced or manufactured in the CARICOM region. Imports of live animals, milk, meat, fish, eggs, fertilizers, and most agricultural and industrial machinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items include most imports from CARICOM and East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) countries, certain imports for use in indus- try, agriculture, fishing, air and sea transport (un- der industrial incentive legislation), and items ex- empted under the Hotel Aid Ordinance and Fiscal Incentives Ordinance. The rates of import duty in the ECCM tariff vary from 5 percent on certain basic food items to 70 percent on bay rum and firearms. A stamp duty of 1 percent of the c . i .f. value had been levied on all imports, except fertilizers for which the rate was Vs of 1 percent. In October 1989, the stamp duty was replaced by a customs service charge of 2 percent of the c . i .f. value. Certain imports are subject to a consumption tax that is based on the c . i .f. value plus import duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 a year for travel; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance. Persons traveling within the CARICOM area using CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trin- idad and Tobago currency) receive the basic al- lowance of EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of airline tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel within the CARICOM area and 5 percent for travel elsewhere. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is freely transferable within the ECCB area. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. How- ever, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period of time. Insurance premiums are taxed as follows: life insurance, 1.5 percent for residents and 3 per- cent for nonresident companies; general insurance, 3 percent for residents and 5 percent for nonresi- dent companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities may be exported to any des- tination without a license. Proceeds must, in princi- ple, be surrendered. A duty at the rate of 2.5 per- cent of the f .o .b. value is levied on banana exports. A special fee of US$0.02 a barrel is applied on re- exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Trav- elers to St. Lucia may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coins are not normally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are not normally per- mitted to purchase foreign currency securities and real estate situated abroad for private purposes. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require approval, which is normally granted, provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Nonresidents who purchase property are taxed at a higher rate than are residents. Any resident who requires a loan from local sources must first have the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Applications for nonresident loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other finan- cial intermediary) to the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the applicant. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks is subject to a 2 percent tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or commercial banking sector. St. Vincent and the Grenadines formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24, 1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import pay- ments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East- ern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East- ern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the authorization of the Ministry of Fi- aThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. nance. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remit- tances in foreign currency and with transfers from other External Accounts. Except with the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to External Accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to the 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. The operating banks must submit quar- terly statements of the accounts to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such accounts may be credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Ca- ribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a Foreign Currency Account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to a 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. The operating banks must sub- mit quarterly statements of the accounts to the Min- istry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Import items are divided into three categories: the largest category covers goods that may be freely imported; imports of some goods that compete with typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the Organization of East Caribbean States (OECS)4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary 4The OECS comprises Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Gre- nada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 427 evidence and, when required, of the license. Ad- vance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Payments for travel, medi- cal treatment, education, subscription and member- ship fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$100 must be approved by the Ministry of Finance, and approval is granted routinely. Residents may purchase foreign ex- change from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area; for business travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to an amount of not more than EC$6,000 a year. The above alloca- tions can be increased with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the Ministry of Finance upon presen- tation of a written statement by a local medical prac- titioner of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the treat- ment. The amount of local currency that travelers can take out is limited to EC$50 a trip. A 5 percent tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originating in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, whether or not the ticket is purchased in the country. Students attending educational institutions over- seas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Docu- mentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. Transfers of funds within the ECCB area require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance when individual transactions exceed EC$2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any des- tination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent de- pletion of stocks. All export proceeds must be sur- rendered. A 3 percent export duty is levied on bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are normally not per- mitted to purchase foreign currency securities and real estate situated abroad for private purposes. On presentation of documentary proof that they are taking up permanent residence in a foreign country, emigrants may apply to the Ministry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The transfer of sums is normally limited to EC$20,000 a year as is the transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emigrants already residing in a foreign country. Direct investment in St. Vincent and the Grena- dines by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liquida- tion proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their do- mestic operations requires the approval of the Min- istry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are per- mitted for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of nine major trading partners of Sao Tome and Principe. The intervention cur- rency for the dobra is the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, were Db 138.91 = US$1 and Db 143.06 = US$1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar for the cur- rencies concerned. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purposes of assessing charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange—namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the ar- rangements are as follows: on the opening of a letter of credit, a charge of 1.125 percent of the import value is payable, with an additional commission to the National Bank of 0.5 percent. A stamp duty of Db 2 per Db 1,000 of import value, plus a flat Db 50, is also payable, as well as a postage levy of Db 50. Any change in the letter of credit carries a fur ther charge of Db 150. On foreign checks for collection, the National Bank applies a commission in favor of the collecting foreign correspondents, varying according to the particular bank. In addition, the National Bank charges a postage levy of Db 20 for each transaction, together with a stamp duty of Db 15. In the period between payment of the import cost by the bank and receipt of funds from the importer, an interest rate of 6.5 percent a year is charged on the loan. For collection of export proceeds, the National Bank charges a commission of 0.25 percent when opening the letter of credit and a further 0.125 percent when the funds are received. In addition, a postage levy of Db 500 is charged. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions come under the control of the National Bank. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and exceptions to the stated limits are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the Na- tional Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through this bank, with the exception of a 30 percent retention of earnings by exporters for import payments purposes (see section below on Exports and Export Proceeds). Import and export licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. Bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Cape Verde and the People's Republic of China. The agreement with the People's Republic of China has been renewed annually since 1984. Un- der this agreement, Sao Tome and Principe exports 500 tons of cocoa at a negotiated price. The export proceeds are used for importing manufactured goods from the People's Republic of China. Transactions under the payments agreement with Cape Verde have normally covered Sao Tome and Principe's imports from Cape Verde, as well as re- ceipts and payments for various services and trans- fers. The agreement provides for the central banks of the two countries to grant each other reciprocal noninterest credits of US$200,000; it also states that, should this balance be depleted and a debit balance persist for more than six months, the imbalance will be redressed by appropriate trade transactions be- tween the two parties. Imports and Import Payments Registered importers (including all productive entities) holding approved import licenses are per- mitted to engage in import activity. Imports by the state-owned foreign trading enterprise ECOMEX are limited to beans, edible oil, milk, rice, sugar, and wheat flour; however, in June 1990 the monopoly of ECOMEX to import these products was formally abol- ished and the private sector is free to import these items. Fuels and lubricants are imported by ENCO (the fuel enterprise), and medicines are imported by ENAMED (the pharmaceutical enterprise). Import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Commerce and must be approved by the National Bank. For all imports, licenses are issued in accordance with Ad- vance Import Registration Bulletins, which are valid 428 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 429 for six months, but may be extended if necessary. The license specifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f .o.b. values of the product to be imported, together with the currency of settlement. Licenses are granted under the annual import plan, taking into account the availability of foreign exchange and the country's supply of consumer goods and economic development requirements. When importers open letters of credit, they are required to lodge a non- interest-bearing deposit in domestic currency equivalent to 40 percent of the value of the letters of credit; the remainder may be financed with a 120- day loan from the National Bank at an annual inter- est rate of 20 percent. Prepayment for imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Payments for other invis- ibles are approved within limits established by the National Bank. These limits, which allow for addi- tional amounts in justifiable cases, include those on (1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are inadequate; (2) transfers of remit- tances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings under technical cooperation agreements with the Government; and (4) transfers for pay- ment of fares, freight, and costs of communication with foreign countries. Purchases of foreign ex- change by residents for tourism are strictly limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Individual expenditures on airline tickets by private citizens for travel abroad may not exceed Db 40,000 in value over a three-year period. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe before independence have been sus- pended. There are no limitations on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals and books, or on the payments of interest on external debt. Foreign exchange allowances for medical pur- poses are permitted up to the equivalent of Db 20,000 for a period of one month. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted for nonresident nationals who had been receiving such allowances before 1980. Pay- ments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year, a student may receive a special transfer of up to the equivalent of Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to courses taken abroad; additional amounts may be granted if approved by the Minis- try of Education and Culture. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2 percent of value, or 4 percent if payment is made through a telegraphic transfer. A postage levy of Db 20 is payable on all transactions. Foreign travelers may take out in foreign exchange an amount not greater than the total sum they de- clared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bulletins, which spec- ify the quantity and c .i .f. or f .o .b. value of the ex- port. In general, private enterprises are allowed to export directly unless their price is lower than the minimum price obtained by ECOMEX for the same export. This regulation is administered flexibly, and in practice, exporters inform ECOMEX of price ob- tained only after the completion of transaction. All export proceeds must be collected through the Na- tional Bank. However, producers of exported goods may retain 30 percent of export proceeds in accounts with correspondent banks of the National Bank abroad to meet their import requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Investment Code implemented in April 1986. Transfers are permitted for repayment of financing under agreements with the Government and for the amortization of private sector investments in ac- tivities considered to be in the national interest. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special autho- rization from the National Bank. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments June 18. Decree 14/90 officially abolished Eco- MEX'S monopoly over the importation of basic foodstuff, and authorized private traders to import and export all goods, except fuel, medicines, and those that are specified on a negative list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 per- cent are allowed around the fixed relationship; these margins were suspended on July 22, 1981. The in- tervention currency is the U.S. dollar, the rate against which is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. On December 31,1990, the Mon- etary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.745 per US$1; it sold U.S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.750 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.740 per US$1; these rates, which have not changed since June 1, 1986, serve as the basis for exchange quota- tions in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 percent above and below the Mon- etary Agency's buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks up to 12 months. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Africa is prohibited.1 No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad is obtained freely. The im- portation of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of religion, health, or security. Most im- ports are subject to customs duties at rates rang- ing between 12 percent and 20 percent; the rate for tobacco and tobacco products is 30 percent. Im- ports f rom member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are exempted, provided that at least 40 percent of the *In addition, all imports from and all exports to these countries are prohibited; payments may neither be made to them nor received from them for any type of transaction, whether of a current or capital nature. 430 value added in each case is e f fec ted in GCC coun- tries and that at least 51 percent of the capital of the producing f irm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-exportation of certain imported items benefiting from govern- ment subsidy is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and ex- port Saudi Arabian bank notes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. The Monetary Agency has issued guide- lines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval before the flotation of riyal- denominated loans. Local banks are required to obtain the approval of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency before inviting foreign banks to participate in riyal-denominated syndicated transactions in- side or outside Saudi Arabia. Prior approval by the Monetary Agency is also required for participation by local banks in either riyal-syndicated transac- tions arranged abroad or foreign-currency- syndicated transactions arranged for nonresidents. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved for- eign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved for- eign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign capital in- vested in industrial or agricultural projects with at least 25 percent Saudi Arabian participation is ex- empt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 431 home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form, with the excep- , r J . , ,. J c -j.u j.u tion of gold of 14 karats or less, the importation of which is prohibited. r Changes During 1990 T , T . „ Imports and Import Payments May 6. The customs duty rate on tobacco and tobacco products was raised to 30 percent. r J ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO no longer levies a commission on transfers to and from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks charge an exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per mill on purchases and sales of for- eign exchange, depending on the amount, other than those directly related to external transactions. In addition, they levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward cover against exchange risk is available to residents only for imports of a specified category of goods. All forward cover against exchange risk must be authorized by the Directorate of Money and Credit (Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan- ning). Forward cover against exchange risk can be provided only in the currency of settlement stipu- lated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of foreign exchange settlement as stipulated in the commercial contract and must not exceed one month. For some specified products, the maturity of forward cover may be extended one time for up to three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Mo- naco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these irThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are free of any commission. countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning. Part of the approval au- thority in respect of exchange control has been dele- gated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any in- formation necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through au- thorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. The Ministry of Commerce issues export authorizations and prior import authorizations for listed products. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone may be settled through the West Afri- can Clearing House Arrangement. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the cur- rencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to Nonresident Ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to Nonresident Accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent; such bank notes may be credited to a Foreign Ac- count in Francs opened by the latter with an autho- rized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 433 the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by autho- rized intermediaries directly to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or transshipped from Is- rael and South Africa are prohibited. With respect to other countries, the principle of most-favored- nation treatment of all Senegal's commercial part- ners was established in 1981. Moreover, quantitative restrictions and prior authorization requirements for certain imports are now based only on the type of product, not on the country of origin or trans- shipment. Quantitative restrictions may be applied for various reasons, such as agricultural policy, sani- tation, or protection of certain products (cement, fertilizers, sugar, wheat flour, and tomatoes). All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Senegalese border or c . i .f .). The exchange authorizations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange but not earlier than eight days before shipment of goods to Senegal if a documen- tary credit is opened, or on the due date for settle- ment if the commodities have already been im- ported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lading). Furthermore, payments for imports may not be made before proper documentation is submitted regarding customs clearance. In the case of advance pay- ments, foreign exchange may not be acquired until the contractual date of such payments. All imports, except those in transit and those intended for the free zone of Dakar, are subject to a service fee of 3 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to exchange approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized intermediary banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad of up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents without requiring documents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted, on the basis of a request for exchange authorization submitted to the Ministry of Finance. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Senegal must be surrendered. Applica- tions for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved on the basis of applications for foreign exchange authorizations submitted to the Ministry of Finance. Business travelers may receive a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a person a trip, but may not take out more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes or its equivalent in currency notes issued by the Bank of France or a bank of issue linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. A foreigner working in Senegal may transfer his full net salary upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months following the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Resident trav- elers to other Operations Account countries may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount they take out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of payment, such as traveler's checks, issued abroad in their name. However, the exportation of foreign bank notes in amounts in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 is authorized only up to the amount they declared on entry (minus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and plus any re- purchases of up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, dia- monds, cereals, peanuts, tomato paste, fine pearls, precious and similar stones, plated or coated pre- cious metals and articles made of them and precious metal products, and costume jewelry), exports do not require prior authorization. Certain nontradi- tional exports to nonmember countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) are eligible for an export subsidy equivalent to 25 percent based on industrial value added at international prices. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries, includ- ing members of the WAMU and the Operations Account countries, must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 SENEGAL destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than 1 month after the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area; resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South Af- rica are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require the approval of the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance and Planning, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward in- vestment, and over the issuing, advertising, or of- fering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning. Ex- empt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or offering for sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Ac- count countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the solic- iting of funds for deposit with foreign private per- sons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at sub- scribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance and Planning;3 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy, Fi- nance and Planning before they are made. The Min- ister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postpone- ment of the project. Both the making and the liqui- dating of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying con- trol of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock ex- change. Lending abroad requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; and (2) loans contracted by authorized banks. The re- payment of loans not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if it was exempt from authorization. The Investment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. Special facilities for export industries are established in the Dakar export-processing zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) from or to any other country require prior authorization from the 3Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Senegal. 4Including those made by companies in Senegal that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 435 Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning. Ex- empt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require au- thorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning to conduct their business. Imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold by brokers are subject to a 25 percent ad valorem tax. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior import authorization from the Minister of Commerce, and imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Director- ate of Handicrafts (Ministry of Industrial Develop- ment and Handicrafts) and the Directorate of For- eign Trade (Ministry of Commerce). Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments August 1. A3 percent service fee was levied on all imports, except those in transit and those intended for the free zone of Dakar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for various currencies (in- cluding the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency) are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the SDR. The Cen- tral Bank circulates these rates daily to the commer- cial banks. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of the Seychelles for the pound sterling were SR 9.8631 and SR 9.9619, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent on purchases and 0.875 percent on sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the Central Bank for the respective currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the offi- cial or the commercial banking sector. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control, and there are no prescription of currency requirements. The Sey- chelles Marketing Board exercises controls over for- eign trade and domestic marketing; its Import Divi- sion and Import Control Unit perform regulatory and commercial roles. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports. Importers are required to obtain import li- censes from the Seychelles Licensing Authority and to apply for import permits from the Import Control section of the Seychelles Marketing Board. Certain basic food items (including sugar, flour, oil, mar- garine, rice, and animal feed) can be imported only by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Most imports are subject to the trade and service tax, at rates ranging from 10 percent to 375 percent (with the bulk of imported commodities falling in the range of 10 percent to 50 percent). Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of foreign currency and up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally do not require licenses. Exports of copra, cinnamon, and fish are controlled by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Residents may export goods without exchange control formality to any country except South Africa. There are no regula- tions governing the repatriation of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be dis- posed of freely. However, trading in foreign curren- cies by persons other than authorized dealers is prohibited. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without restriction. Nonnationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. Investment outside Seychelles by permanent res- idents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limita- tions. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct investment, increased investments in existing en- tities in the form of loans, or equity capital) is not restricted, provided that commercial and manufac- turing investments conform to a minimum equity contribution of 30 percent of capital investment, as prescribed from December 1988. Commercial banks in Seychelles are required to restrict credit to nonnationals primarily for working capital purposes and generally to an amount not in excess of overseas funds invested in Seychelles in enterprises in certain priority sectors, i.e., agricul- ture and fishing, manufacturing, construction, and tourism. In addition, penalty loan rates are imposed on credit secured by foreign assets. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 437 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, but dealings in gold bullion are restricted to authorized dealers. Seychelles has is- sued the following commemorative gold coins, which are also legal tender: (1) two coins issued by the Currency Board (1976) in the denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000; (2) a coin in the denomina- tion of SR 20 to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the Central Bank in December 1983; (3) a coin in the denomination of SR 25 to mark the World Fish- eries Conference of the Food and Agriculture Or- ganization (FAO) issued in April 1984; (4) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 to commemorate the United Nations Decade for Women issued in Feb- ruary 1986; (5) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 to mark the tenth anniversary of Seychelles' independence issued in June 1986; (6) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 to commemo- rate the tenth anniversary of the fifth of June 1977 Liberation issued in June 1987; (7) two coins in the denominations of SR 100 and SR 1,000 to mark the tenth anniversary of the Central Bank issued in De- cember 1988; and (8) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 to mark the EXPO '90 in Osaka, Japan issued in April 1990. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Le- onean Leone. Since April 25, 1990, exchange rates have been freely determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the market. Commercial banks may buy and sell foreign exchange with customers and trade among themselves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone (central bank) on a freely nego- tiable basis. The central bank determines the ex- change rate every week based on the weighted- average rate of the commercial bank transactions for customs valuations and official transactions. Before the introduction of the new system, the exchange rate was pegged to the U.S. dollar at Le 120 per US$1. On December 21, 1990, the official buying and selling rates were Le 182.61 and Le 184.78, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Finance, in consultation with the central bank, but the day-to-day administration of ex- change control is carried out by the central bank with the assistance of the commercial banks. Ap- plications for foreign exchange for invisible pay- ments in excess of certain amounts are subject to the approval of the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Transactions with certain countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under a bilateral pay- ments agreement. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in U.S. dollars. The West African Clearing House provides for settle- ments with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria. Receipts from exports to countries other than the People's Republic of China may be obtained in leones from an External Account in the currency of the importing country or in any spec- ified currency.1 Receipts from all exports must be obtained in convertible currencies and sold to the commercial banks, except for receipts from coffee and cocoa, for which exporters must surrender 60 percent of export proceeds to the Bank of Sierra Leone. Licensed exporters of diamonds are required to surrender US$250,000 a month to the central bank, and export proceeds in excess of this amount must be surrendered to a commercial bank. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents are permitted to maintain Foreign Cur- rency Accounts denominated in any convertible currency with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. These accounts, for which no minimum balance has been stipulated, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad and may be debited to meet local expenditures of the account holder. Transfers abroad of balances in Foreign Cur- rency Accounts are permitted in accordance with the regulations governing payments abroad for goods and services. Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone on behalf of diplomatic missions, U .N. agencies, and their accredited staff are designated as External Accounts. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which funds due to nonresidents that may not be remitted abroad are credited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all goods originating from South Af- rica are prohibited. All other goods may be im- ported freely without a license. Authority to ap- prove transactions is delegated to the commercial banks. All applications for purchase of foreign ex- change for the importation of goods must be sup- ported by a pro forma invoice and should be submit- ted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. Importation of goods financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources without letters of credit Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 439 established with a local commercial bank has been permitted since May 23, 1988. Effective November 5, 1990, all goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and those goods specifically exempted by the Minister of Fi- nance, have been subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an international company appointed by the Government. Imports are subject to an invoice entry fee of 5 percent and an import inspection fee of 2 percent, both of which are calculated on the c . i .f. value of imports; the fees for imports from the member countries of the Economic Community of West Afri- can States are one half of these rates except for the import inspection fee. Fees are payable at the time of importation. A sales tax of 10 percent of the invoice value is levied on all imports. Payments for Invisibles Authority to provide foreign exchange for legiti- mate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks. Applications for basic travel allowance in excess of US$1,000 for an adult must be referred to the central bank for approval. A travel tax of 10 per- cent is levied on the price of tickets purchased lo- cally and is payable when the ticket is purchased. Commercial banks are authorized to approve school fees, up to the full amount, payable directly to the school upon presentation of bills by the schools concerned. They may also approve, for each student studying abroad, educational and mainte- nance expenses of US$600 a month or US$3,600 for six months, and medical treatment up to US$3,000. Applications for payments in excess of the amounts prescribed must be made to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. A maximum of 40 percent of an expatriate's gross salary may be remitted abroad for family mainte- nance purposes. At the end of their contract, for- eigners are allowed to remit all of their savings. Profits and dividends from foreign direct invest- ment may be repatriated, provided that it can be established from documentary evidence that capital was originally brought into the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for 12 months, are issued by the Ministry of Mines. In principle, all exporters are required to sur- render all foreign exchange earnings to the com- mercial banks. All exporters are required to com- plete CD2 forms, which should be endorsed by the exporter's commercial bank and be notified to the central bank. Commercial banks are responsible for collecting the export proceeds as indicated on the CD2 forms. Exports of the following articles are prohibited: those exceeding the leone equivalent of US$1,000; those containing more than 25 percent silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, pearls (excluding personal jewelry or ornaments up to a value not exceeding the leone equivalent of US$1,000); postage stamps of philatelic interest; and works of art. Under the new policy on exports of diamonds, licensed exporters of diamonds are re- quired to surrender US$250,000 a month to the Bank of Sierra Leone, and export proceeds in excess of this amount must be surrendered to a commer- cial bank (of the exporter's choice). Exporters of coffee and cocoa are required to sur- render 60 percent of their export proceeds to the central bank, and the rest to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone (of the exporter's choice). Effective November 5, 1990, all goods exported from Sierra Leone, except those exempted by the Minister of Finance, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification, which is undertaken by an inspec- tion company appointed by the Government. Ex- porters who are subject to inspection pay an export inspection fee of 2 percent before clearing their goods through Customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank within three days. The importation of domestic bank notes is limited to Le 2,500 for each traveler. Residents receiving foreign currencies or entering Sierra Leone with foreign exchange must exchange these currencies for domestic currency at a commercial bank within three days. Nonresidents bringing foreign exchange into Sierra Leone must exchange or deposit it with a bank within three days. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone are required to obtain permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Invest- ments by nonresidents, including profits, may be repatriated at any time, provided that exchange control approval of the investment was obtained at the outset. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 440 SIERRA LEONE The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of se- curities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he serves as nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permis- sion must also be obtained before a security regis- tered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a non- resident. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad with- out permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordi- nance of 1960 and the Development of Industries Act, 1983 provide for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies un- dertaking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or control- ling certain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must either sell their foreign exchange holdings to an authorized dealer or hold a Foreign Currency Account with a commer- cial bank in Sierra Leone. Exemption is granted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of ster- ling assets held before June 24, 1972, for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the central bank. Exempted securities may be sold out- side the former Sterling Area, and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area securities. Any certificate of securities purchased with the pro- ceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit requirements. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national temporarily resident in Sierra Leone are also exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, provided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely pur- chase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not al- lowed to hold gold in the form of bars or coins. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement April 25. A market-determined exchange rate sys- tem was introduced, replacing the previous system of a peg to the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control April 25. Authority to approve most foreign ex- change transactions was delegated to the commer- cial banks. Resident and Nonresident Accounts March 25. The Foreign Currency Accounts, which residents can hold with commercial banks, were extended to any currency that is convertible with the U.S. dollar. Commercial banks are authorized to process payments for the importation of goods and services from these accounts, upon application by the customers, without approval from the Bank of Sierra Leone. Imports and Import Payments March 15. Import bans on the following goods have been eliminated: cabin and pastry biscuits, confectionery, bouillion cubes, carbonated and ae- rated mineral water, mattresses, plastic carrier bags, wood furniture and parts, synthetic wines, jams and marmalade, fruit juices, candles, matches, laundry soap, cocoa powder, steel tanks, fish (chilled, frozen, dried, and smoked), Crustacea and molluscs, fresh vegetables, fresh tomatoes, eggs, and chicken (frozen). April 25. The requirement of establishing letters of credit with a local commercial bank for the impor- tation of goods was abolished. November 5. All goods imported into Sierra Leone became subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an inspection company appointed by the Government for customs clearance. Importers were required to pay import inspection fees of 2 per- cent of the c . i .f. value. Payments for Invisibles April 25. Applications for a basic travel allowance in excess of US$1,000 a trip no longer required ap- proval from the Bank of Sierra Leone. Applications for a basic travel allowance in excess of US$1,000 a year required approval from the Bank of Sierra Leone. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 441 Exports and Export Proceeds April 25. All exporters were required to surrender all foreign exchange earnings to the commercial banks. Commercial banks were no longer required to transfer 60 percent of export proceeds of certain products, that is, diamond, gold, agricultural, and marine products, to the central bank. However, li- censed diamond exporters were required to presur- render US$250,000 a month directly to the Bank of Sierra Leone (export proceeds in excess of this amount must be surrendered to a commercial bank of the exporter's choice). Coffee and cocoa exporters were required to surrender 60 percent of their export proceeds to the central bank. November 5. All goods exported from Sierra Leone, except those exempted by the Minister of Finance, were subject to preshipment inspection and price verification, which would be undertaken by an inspection company appointed by the Gov- ernment. Exporters subject to inspection were re- quired to pay an export inspection fee of 2 percent before clearing their goods through customs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. Singapore follows a policy under which the Singapore dollar is permitted to float, and the exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and all other currencies is freely determined in the foreign exchange market. However, the Monetary Authority of Singapore moni- tors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade-weighted basket of currencies with the objec- tive of maintaining a low and stable domestic inflation rate. The closing interbank buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31,1990 were S$1.727 and S$1.743, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are available throughout the working day and are based on their cross rates against the U.S. dol- lar in international markets. Banks are free to deal in all currencies, with no restrictions on amount, matu- rities, or underlying transactions. Foreign currency futures are traded at the Sin- gapore International Monetary Exchange. Banks can hedge their exchange rate risk through a for- ward foreign exchange transaction. There is an ac- tive short-term currency swap market among the banks in the domestic money market. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely in- terchangeable, at par and without charge, in Sin- gapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control formalities, but the Monetary Authority of Singapore retains responsi- bility for exchange control matters. The Trade De- velopment Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import- and export-licensing requirements for a very small number of products that are under its control. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Very few items imported into Singapore are du- tiable. The highest duties are levied on liquors, to- bacco, petroleum, and motor cars. Other items carry a duty of 5 percent ad valorem. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. All imports originating in South Africa are pro- hibited. Import licenses are required for rice, irre- spective of origin, and for all imports originating in, or consigned from, Albania, the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. Licenses for imports from the latter countries are subject to a surcharge of 0.5 percent of the c . i .f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Singapore bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports of Singapore origin, for example, textiles and textile products, are subject to quantita- tive restrictions and other nontariff barriers in the importing countries, particularly the United States, Canada, Norway, and the countries of the European Communities. Export licenses are required for gra- nite, sand, timber, and rubber, but there is no re- striction on export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and coins, including Singapore gold coins. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. With the complete liberalization of exchange con- trols in 1978, Singapore residents, including corpor- ations, are allowed to make payments in all curren- cies to any country outside Singapore without any 442 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 443 restrictions. Residents may invest, borrow, and lend in foreign currencies without prior exchange control approval and may deal freely in spot and forward foreign exchange transactions in all currencies. However, banks, merchant banks, and finance com- panies must consult the Monetary Authority of Sin- gapore if they intend to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 million to nonresidents; loans in excess of S$5 million to residents for use outside Singapore must have the approval of the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Banks in Singapore may freely accept deposits in foreign currencies. Financial institutions that have been approved to operate Asian Monetary Units (AMUs) in Singapore are able to offer better rates for foreign currency deposits placed with the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) because of the absence of minimum cash reserve and liquidity requirements. An AMU is a separate accounting entity of financial institutions that enjoy a concessional tax rate of 10 percent on their income; these institutions are prohibited from transacting in Singapore dollars. There are no restrictions on investments, whether direct or portfolio, in Singapore by nonresidents or abroad by residents. Income earned by nonresi- dents on funds placed by them with an approved fund manager in Singapore for investment in ap- proved assets is exempted from tax under the Tax Exemption Scheme for Fund Management. Government approval is required for foreigners investing in residential and other properties (in- cluding vacant land) other than those zoned or ap- proved for industrial or commercial use. A foreigner may, however, freely purchase a residential unit within a building of six or more stories and in an approved condominium development without such approval. With regard to other residential proper- ties, foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration for purchase of these properties for their own oc- cupation and, in the case of foreign companies, for the accommodation of their senior personnel. The maximum limit on the proportion of foreign share- holding in the local banks is 40 percent. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore. Both resident and nonresident individuals and com- panies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require nei- ther exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. Gold can be traded on the spot or futures markets. In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a London basis where delivery of 995 fine gold is made in London; trading also takes place in Kilobar gold with settlement of 999.9 fine gold being made in Singapore, with appropriate adjustments made for the cost of transportation and insurance. A gold futures contract is also available on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Changes During 1990 Capital June 1. The maximum limit on the proportion of foreign shareholding in the local banks was raised to 40 percent from 20 percent. Foreign shareholders were defined as individuals who are not citizens or permanent residents of Singapore, and companies that are majority owned or effectively controlled, indirectly or directly, by such individuals. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, which is issued by the Central Bank of Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Sol- omon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of a relationship between the Solomon Islands dollar and a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Islands' four major trading partners. The Central Bank may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar against the U.S. dollar each month within margins of 0.5 percent above or below the middle rate pre- vailing at the end of the previous month. The Cen- tral Bank provides the commercial banks daily with the limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in their transactions with the Central Bank and the public. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates quoted by the banks in their dealings with the public were US$0.3784 and US$0.3775, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. Forward cover facility is mainly for bona fide trade or trade- related transactions. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with permanent residents of Solomon Islands in any currency. However, the Central Bank will provide cover only in U.S. dollars and for periods of one to six months. The Central Bank also provides the commercial banks daily with the limits as a percentage of the forward buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for one to six months for their dealings with the Central Bank. Commer- cial banks are allowed to apply a margin of up to ten basis points above or below the Central Bank's for- ward rates in respect of their U.S. dollar forward contracts with the public. Solomon Islands formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on July 24, 1979. appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. The authorized dealers may approve certain types of application for exchange control approval up to specified limits. All persons residing in Solomon Islands are re- garded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or by the Central Bank. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved if the person is a cit- izen of a foreign country and intends to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near future. Ownership of real property (other than dwellings for own occupation) or a business indi- cates permanent residential status, regardless of the duration of residence in Solomon Islands. How- ever, temporary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply with all provi- sions of the exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Solomon Islands that are expressed in a foreign currency may be met only by payments in that foreign currency. Export proceeds may be re- ceived in any foreign currency or in Solomon Is- lands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Solomon Islands dollars with authorized dealers, but approval from the Central Bank is required for the crediting of these accounts from Solomon Is- lands sources. Balances on such accounts may be transferred abroad with the approval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Central Bank delegates exten- sive powers to commercial banks, which have been Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Authorized dealers are per- mitted to approve most transactions without refer- ence to the Central Bank. 444 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 445 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of divi- dends, profits, and other earnings accruing to over- seas residents from companies in Solomon Islands, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Permanent residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing per- manently outside Solomon Islands are permitted, provided that the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and passage or flight tickets. Requests for unusually large amounts of foreign exchange are referred to the Central Bank. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coins in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods without exchange control formality, provided that they comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Central Bank. The essential conditions of this Gen- eral Authority are that payments for exported goods are received within three months of the date of export, that the export price is not less than the price that an exporter might reasonably be expected to receive, and that the proceeds are sold promptly to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the Gen- eral Authority, they must apply to the Central Bank for a Specific Authority. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consign- ment or for certain exempted categories of goods, including most kinds of personal effects of passengers. an authorized dealer. Overseas residents visiting Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of cur- rency for travel expenditure. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily given for the withdrawal of non-resident-owned in- vestment capital, repayment of overseas borrow- ings, and the remittance of temporary residents' and emigrants' funds. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. For port- folio investments, central bank approval is needed before the acquisition or disposal of foreign se- curities by a permanent resident. Approval is nor- mally not given for the acquisition of overseas port- folio investments. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities ac- quired before March 1, 1977. Approval by the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Central Bank before it may borrow funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. Where initial or in- creased foreign investment is concerned, the For- eign Investment Board must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit is- sued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Central Bank is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet under- taken any such transactions. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by means of a sale to Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Somalia's main trading partners. The official ex- change rate is adjusted weekly to reflect changes in the cross rates of currencies in the basket and the relative rates of inflation in Somalia and its trading partners. On December 31,1990, the official buying and selling rates were So. Sh. 3,434.5 and So. Sh. 3,501.7 respectively, per US$1. The official exchange rate applies to imports of goods and ser- vices and debt-service payments of the Govern- ment. The exchange rate in the free market is nego- tiated freely between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, that is, export/import accounts and external accounts. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out transactions in certain other currencies,1 taking into account rates in exchange markets abroad. The official exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the two commercial banks operating as the authorized dealers of the Central Bank in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official sector. The commercial banks also do not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, al- though this is not prohibited. sterling.2 Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified curren- cies (the U.S. dollar and others listed in footnote 1); however, residents are not permitted to make settle- ments with Israel or South Africa. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and ex- ternal accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened with the Central Bank by foreign embassies, interna- tional institutions, and nonresidents. External ac- counts in U.S. dollars may be opened by both resi- dents and nonresidents with the commercial banks. Such accounts may be credited with foreign ex- change transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other external accounts. Funds in such accounts may be used for invisible payments under existing regulations, as well as for merchandise im- port payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents taking place through these exter- nal accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in such accounts may be sold to importers holding export/ import accounts and may be used only for merchan- dise import payments. Administration of Control Imports and Import Payments The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal government agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade controls. The state-trading organization, the National Grain Agency, is responsible for the importation and dis- tribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceuti- cal products, explosives, precious metals and jewelry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, with the exception of items pro- hibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. The National Petroleum Agency is responsible for the importation of all fuels and fuel products. Importation and distribution of petroleum products by capable entrepreneurs in the private sector are permitted, provided that they have safe storage and distribution facilities. All payments for private imports must be effected through letters of credit. Private importers may Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, and U .A .E. dirhams. 2This bilateral payments agreement has been inoperative since 1977. 446 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 447 open letters of credit for imports at a commercial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made avail- able for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in such a case, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account until the time of settlement of the letter of credit. A non-interest-bearing cash advance deposit of 100 percent is required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit is retained until the letters of credit are settled. Funds under the Commodity Import Program funded by the Italian Government are disbursed through a sale mechanism, under which importers submit requests for foreign exchange, to be accom- panied by a 10 percent nonrefundable levy on the amount requested. Before June 1990, the official exchange rate applied to these transactions. If the requests for foreign exchange exceeded the avail- able funds, foreign exchange was allocated propor- tionally among importers. Since then these funds have been sold through a Dutch auction mechanism (bidders purchasing foreign exchange at their bid price), with the official exchange rate serving as the floor price. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for current invisibles through ex- ternal accounts, as well as through the commercial banks selling foreign exchange on their own ac- count, are subject to licensing to prevent unautho- rized capital transfers. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the For- eign Investment Law are allowed up to 50 percent. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be purchased only from holders of external accounts with the approval of the Central Bank, subject to the following limits: (1) ed- ucation allowances, US$1,000 a year; (2) business and tourist travel, US$200 a person a trip; and (3) medical treatment, US$3,000 a year. The Central Bank may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. All foreign travelers are re- quired to pay an airport departure tax of US$20 in foreign currency, and Somali nationals are required to pay the tax equivalent to US$10 in domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT (previously, the National Banana Board). The exportation of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals is subject to prior approval; the state monopoly in exports of hides and skins was discontinued in 1990. All export proceeds must be repatriated. Export- ers of bananas and livestock may retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers. Exporters of nontraditional goods may retain 70 percent of their export earnings. For exports other than those made under letter of credit arrangements, an advance payment deposit of 100 percent of the value of ex- ports is required. A tax of 25 percent is levied on exports of livestock, on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to repatria- tion and declaration. Exporters of services may re- tain up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange re- ceipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers within five business days of their receipt. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali bank notes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required to convert at least US$100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank on behalf of the Central Bank upon arrival. Unspent foreign exchange may be taken out of the country without restriction. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali bank notes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare any foreign exchange they bring in and to deposit it in external accounts or sell it to the commercial banks at the official exchange rate upon arrival. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing un- less they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977 and May 1987. The amended Foreign Investment Law stipulates priorities for foreign investments in the agricultural, livestock raising, fishing, mining, tourism, and industrial and service sectors. Under this law, investments may be made, apart from transfer of convertible currency, in the form of ma- chinery, equipment, current production inputs, and intangibles (patent rights, trademarks, and studies and documentation prepared in connection ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 SOMALIA with the intended investment). There are no out- right and sectoral restrictions to foreign investment or phase-out provisions, nor does the law preclude the possibility of participating, or acquiring stock, in an existing Somali enterprise. Proposed foreign investment is reviewed for ap- proval in each case within a 60-day period by the Foreign Investment Board, which has final au- thority over all matters concerning foreign invest- ment. The Foreign Investment Board is assisted by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office, which provides advice and guidance to the foreign inves- tor on Somalia's legal, regulatory, and institutional framework, and assists at the incorporation and setting-up stages. The original foreign investment and any reinvested profit may be registered in con- vertible currency. There are no restrictions on rein- vestment of profit. Profit is freely transferable, and profit not transferred, or portions of it, may be trans- ferred in any subsequent year. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) can be freely repatriated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation can be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical assets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above- mentioned five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or liquidation of assets are freely transferable, after payment of normal taxes. The Foreign Investment Law restricts the possibility of expropriation only to cases where public interest cannot be satisfied by measures other than expro- priation. In such cases, prompt and freely transfer- able compensation is payable in an amount that reflects the investment's fair market value as a going concern. Investment disputes are settled in a manner to be agreed upon with the investor, or in the absence of such agreement, under the agreements in force be- tween the investor's home country and Somalia or, in their absence, under the 1985 World Bank Con- vention for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. If none is applicable, the law provides for resolution by a three-member arbitration board, whose chair- man is to be appointed by agreement or, in its ab- sence, by the President of Somalia's Supreme Court. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in European Com- munity (EC) countries; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent duty. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangements During 1990, the exchange rate of the Somali shil- ling was adjusted weekly, from So. Sh. 929.5 = US$1 on January 1,1990 to So. Sh. 3,470 = US$1 on December 31, 1990. Imports and Import Payments June 1. A Dutch auction system was introduced for sales of foreign exchange received from official donors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions but intervene in the exchange market to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commer- cial" rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1990, the commer- cial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transac- tions with the public were US$0.3910 buying and US$0.3905 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions, including cover for transactions by nonresi- dents, on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Au- thorized dealers are permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and ascertained foreign exchange commitments/accruals due to/by nonresidents aris- ing from authorized trade and nontrade transac- tions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments/ accruals. Forward exchange cover may also be pro- vided to nonresidents subject to certain limitations. The Reserve Bank of South Africa provides forward cover in U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transactions with a margin based on an inter- est rate differential between the U.S. dollar and the rand. The Reserve Bank provides special rand for- ward cover at preferential rates in respect of import financing offered to and accepted by South African importers. Such special forward cover must coin- cide with the redemption date of relevant financing and may not be canceled before maturity. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available at market rates in certain freely transferable curren- cies for long-term offshore financing for capital goods imports and for affected indebtedness con- verted into long-term loans. In addition, special rand "offsetting" forward cover at preferential rates may be applied to swap transactions in respect of preshipment financing for South African exporters. Gold mining companies/houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their fu ture gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The freely floating "financial" rand system (with- out the participation of Swaziland) operates with respect to the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents, capital remit- tances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved outward capital transfers by residents. The ex- change rate for the financial rand is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1990, the discount was about 25 percent, and the closing midpoint exchange rate of the financial rand in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31,1990 was R 0.2960 = US$1. South Africa forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, as f rom September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are virtually no exchange or trade restric- tions between the Republic of South Africa and Bophuthatswana, Ciskei, Lesotho, Namibia, Swazi- land, Transkei, and Venda; these form, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory, the Common Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has dele- gated much of its power to the authorized dealers. Import and export permits are generally issued by the Director of Import and Export Control acting on behalf of the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tour- ism. Exchange for licensed imports is made avail- able by the authorized dealers upon proof of ship- ment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documentary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank.1 Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Authorized dealers can permit, without the Reserve Bank's approval, advance payment of up to 33 Vs percent of the ex- factory cost of capital goods, if suppliers require it. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 SOUTH AFRICA Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Common Monetary Area constitute the Nonresident Area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho but not in Swaziland.2 Set- tlements by or to residents of the Common Mone- tary Area with the Nonresident Area may be made in rand to and from a Nonresident Account and in any foreign currency.3 Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents4 are divided into Nonresident Accounts, Financial Rand Ac- counts, and Emigrant Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Accounts may be credited with all au- thorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of foreign currency, and with payments from other Nonresident Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to Common Monetary Area residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, that is, by transfer to a local Nonresident Account, or for remittance to any country outside the Common Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods. Financial Rand Accounts are the accounts of non- residents of the Common Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be credited with the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents. Immigrants (excluding former South African residents) arriving on or after September 12, 1990 may, without the Reserve Bank's approval, during the first five years of their residence, intro- duce their capital through the medium of the finan- cial rand. The release locally of up to R 500,000 of these funds per family unit is permitted during the first year of residence, subject to certain restrictions. Dealers on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are permitted to quote prices for financial rand, and its 2Lilangeni bank notes issued by Swaziland are freely convert- ible into rand, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Maloti bank notes issued by Lesotho are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. 3Foreign currency, foreign exchange, exchange, and specified currency mean any currency other than currency that is legal tender in the Republic of South Africa but exclude the currencies of Lesotho and Swaziland. 4A nonresident is a person (i.e., a natural person or legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the Common Monetary Area. members are permitted to buy and sell financial rand as agents acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer financial rand balances from one Financial Rand Account on their books to another, on their own books, or on the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted securities (which may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central government, municipal, or public utility stocks. On application and approval, nonresi- dents may use financial rand to purchase other as- sets. The local sale proceeds of South African se- curities held by immigrants before their arrival in South Africa, or acquired abroad within five years of their arrival, are also credited to Financial Rand Accounts. Emigrant Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emigrants f rom the Common Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been ap- plied. They must be credited with any cash held at the time of depar ture and with the proceeds of any other South Afr ican asset held at the time of departure and subsequently sold. Such funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Emigrant Blocked Account in South Afr ica, but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Afr ica, or for other specified payments to residents, or be in- vested in any securities that are quoted locally; such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Imports and Import Payments Goods subject to import control are listed in Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations pub- lished on December 23, 1988, as amended. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manu fac tu r ing purposes must be registered with the Director of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid for imports f rom any coun- try. Imports f ree of permit include all goods im- ported f rom Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that were grown, produced, or manu fac tu red in these coun- tries, with the exception of sugar f rom Swaziland and a limited range of agr icu l tural produc ts f rom Malawi and Zimbabwe. An importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to his bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of im- portation) and an import permit where required. Payments are not normally allowed before the date ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 451 of shipment or dispatch, except with prior approval or special authorization from the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). With certain exceptions, imports are subject to a general sales tax of 13 percent, as are locally produced goods. On August 15, 1988, the 10 percent import surcharge system was replaced by a differential system of varying rates ranging from 7.5 percent on certain foodstuffs to 40 percent on nonessential luxury imports. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles without limitation and for others up to established limits. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income payments, such as de- clared dividends, profits, and royalties, that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized dealers without reference to the Reserve Bank, pro- vided that the relevant royalty agreement was ap- proved by the Department of Trade and Industry and the Reserve Bank and provided that the remit- tance of profits and dividends is based on earnings generated after January 1,1984 and does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable considera- tion is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income earned from se- curities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, and so on, are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 15,000 for an adult and R 7,500 for a child under 12 years. Separately, there is an annual basic ex- change allocation of R 5,000 for an adult (R 2,500 for a child under 12) for travel to neighboring countries, that is, Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 1,200 a day, with a maximum of R 22,500 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighboring ter- ritories mentioned above is R 10,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 750 a day. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations outside the Common Monetary Area may take the full applicable allowance in foreign bank notes. The amount of South African Reserve Bank notes, how- ever, may not exceed R 500, but this is not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R 500 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes that they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of ex- change that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply to contract workers returning to neighboring countries, who are per- mitted to take with them reasonable amounts in bank notes. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities considered to be in relatively short supply or controlled for strate- gic reasons require export permits to be sold to buyers outside the Common Customs Area (com- bined areas of Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland). Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months of the date of shipment or seven days of the date of accrual. To ensure a more effec- tive application of exchange control procedures re- garding the repatriation of export proceeds, except in respect of exports on a cash-on-delivery basis or where the full proceeds are received in advance, exporters are required to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit up to 12 months, provided the credit is neces- sary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or to capture a new export market. Exporters benefit from an incentive scheme, under which they receive a payment that is based on the f .o .b. value of exports of the local content of products, the extent of processing in- volved, and the movement in the real effective ex- change rate in terms of a basket of currencies of South Africa's major trading partners since Jan- uary 1979. Company income tax rebates associated with expenditures on overseas market develop- ments are permitted up to 20 percent of current export turnover until March 31, 1992. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the Common Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 500 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 SOUTH AFRICA Capital5 All inward loan transfers require specific ap- proval,6 whereas inward transfers for investment in equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign ex- change accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations out- side the Common Monetary Area require the ap- proval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by non- resident-owned or non-resident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on for- eign stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 5,000 through financial rand for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from ex- isting holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain condi- tions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Nonresidents are not allowed to use financial rand to purchase farms and residential properties. Applications by South African residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the Common Monetary Area for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the Reserve Bank on their merits. Investments de- signed to foster exports and maintain or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favorably. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets transferred to South Af- rica may, through the same channel, be re- transferred abroad within the first five years after arrival. The proceeds of the sale of quoted or unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other eq- uity investments by nonresidents of South Africa to Securities are defined as including not only quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights, but also unquoted shares in public companies, shares in private companies, government, municipal, and public utility stocks, non-resident-owned mort- gage bonds, or participations in mortgage bonds. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" include any temporary or sub- stitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 6Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, ex- cept for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names to finance South African foreign trade and for other approved purposes. residents must be credited to Financial Rand Ac- counts and are accordingly transferable through this medium. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance at the rate for commercial rand and are permitted to transfer up to R 200,000 (R 100,000 for single persons) through the medium of financial rand. Any balance exceeding the permissible trans- ferable amount must be credited to an Emigrant Blocked Account. Up to R 300,000 of income earned by emigrants may be transferred through normal banking channels or credited to a Nonresident Ac- count. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Financial Rand Account; the total net income earned from such an account is eligible for transfer in addition to the R 300,000 mentioned above. An emigrant family or an individual can export one motor vehicle, with a maximum value of R 50,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigration, and can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 50,000 for each family, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in the emigrant's possession for at least one year. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by non-resident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances,7 current profits earned after January 1, 1984, and dividends declared on profits from trading generated after January 1, 1984, provided that the remittance does not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South Africa of non- resident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic and investment purposes. With this exception, resi- dents of South Africa other than the monetary au- thorities, authorized dealers, registered gold pro- ducers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. The approval authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler up to a value of R 40,000 (subject to a written decla- ration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return); and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing 7Subject, however, to the standstill arrangements, where applicable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 453 jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), subject to a written decla- ration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, after reference and ap- proval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank, which has been nominated as agent for the Treasury, within one month of production. With effect from Octo- ber 1987, the Reserve Bank pays the gold mines in U.S. dollars for their sales of production. As a spe- cial concession, the industry may retain approx- imately one third of its production for the minting of gold coins and kilo bars. The Mint strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. Changes During 1990 Financial Rand Accounts September 12. The concessions available to new immigrants regarding the introduction of their for- eign assets through the medium of financial rand were substantially revised. lowance for tourist travel to the neighboring coun- tries (Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), to R 5,000 from R 4,000 for an adult (to R 2,500 from R 2,000 for a child under 12 years of age); (2) basic annual al- lowance for tourist travel to other countries, to R 15,000 from R 10,000 for an adult (to R 7,500 from R 5,000 for a child under 12 years of age); (3) daily allowance for business travel to the neighboring countries, to R 750 from R 600, with an increase in the annual maximum to R 10,000 from R 8,000; (4) daily allowance for business travel to other countries, to R 1,200 from R 750, with an increase in the annual maximum to R 22,500 from R 15,000. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. An incentive scheme was introduced, under which exporters would receive a payment based on the f.o.b. value of exports of the local content of products, the extent of processing in- volved, and the movement in the real effective ex- change rate since January 1979. A maximum limit of 20 percent of current export turnover was added to company income tax rebates associated with expen- ditures on overseas market developments until March 31, 1992. Capital Payments for Invisibles June 1. The limits on foreign exchange allowances were increased as follows: (1) basic annual al- June 1. The limit on transfers an emigrant family is allowed to make through the medium of financial rand was increased to R 200,000 from R 100,000 (to R 100,000 from R 50,000 for a single person). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. Spain participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, and the United Kingdom in the exchange rate mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Spain maintains the spot exchange rates between the Spanish peseta and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 6 percent (6 percent for the pound sterling, and 2.25 percent for the remaining currencies) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un- limited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1990, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1 pound sterling Spanish Peseta Upper Limit Lower Limit 334.619 1,809.40 6,901.70 2,057.80 184.892 9.224 6,125.30 203.600 296.802 1,604.90 6,121.70 1,825.30 163.997 8.182 5,433.10 180.590 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Official rates for specified currencies1 are quoted on the basis of market rates and are published daily. On December 31, 1990, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Ptas 96.91 = US$1. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in for- eign markets for spot and forward transactions. All 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). future transactions involving an identifiable ex- change risk are eligible for forward cover. There are no limits on periods to be covered. There are no limits on forward or spot foreign currency positions of individual banks, except those stemming indi- rectly from prudential rules on maximum net for- eign exchange exposure. Under existing regula- tions, consolidated net foreign exchange exposure must not exceed a percentage of the consolidated own resources of each banking group that is deter- mined by the Bank of Spain. Spain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from July 15, 1986. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the Directorate-General of External Transactions, handles exchange control regulations, including those pertaining to trade and invisible transactions, foreign investment, investment abroad by Spanish residents, and domestic borrowing by foreigners. The Bank of Spain handles the foreign exchange market (both spot and forward), regulates and su- pervises commercial banks' activities, and is re- sponsible for all nontrade foreign borrowing (both short-term and long-term) by domestic residents. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles may be made in convertible pesetas or in any of the currencies specified in foot- note 1, but they are usually made in the currency of the country of origin or destination. Nonresident Accounts As of December 1985, accounts affected by the regulations on nonresident accounts are, in addition to Foreign Currency Accounts, either convertible accounts or ordinary accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 455 sold by nonresidents in the Spanish foreign ex- change market, with authorized payments made by residents to nonresidents as a result of any balance of payments transactions, with accrued interest on such accounts, and with transfers from other such accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts may be deb- ited for purchases of equivalent amounts of foreign currency and bank notes in the Spanish foreign currency market, for authorized payments in pesetas to residents as a result of any balance of payments transaction, for cash drawings by non- residents, and for transfers to other peseta ac- counts. Convertible peseta balances are subject to a reserve requirement. Balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts are eligible for forward cover in the for- ward exchange market in Spain. Convertible Peseta Accounts may not be in a net debit position, except in cases of payments of bills of lading, technical delays in check clearing, or delays resulting from the realization and liquidation of foreign portfolio investment in Spain. Ordinary Peseta Accounts (Royal Decree 1723/85 and Resolution of December 20, 1985) can be cred- ited freely. Balances in such accounts, which are not convertible, may be utilized to cover tourist ex- penses in Spain, as well as investments that can qualify as foreign investments; transfer rights for such investments, financed by ordinary pesetas, are not restricted provided that certain conditions are fulfilled (e.g., proof of the legal origin of the funds deposited, and verification by the Directorate-General of External Transactions). Earn- ings on these accounts can be transferred abroad freely. Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports may be made freely into Spain. However, imports of certain goods (e.g., tractors, explosives, seed oil, and gold) are subject to authorization by the Directorate-General of For- eign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin or when imported from specific geographical areas (with distinctions being made between European Community (EC) countries, European Free Trade Association (EFTA)-Mediterranean and ACP2 coun- tries, General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) member countries, and state-trading coun- tries). Since June 1989, the requirement of import domiciliation has been removed. Foreign exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. 2African/ Caribbean, and Pacific state signatories to the Lome Convention with the EC. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely for listed current invisibles, pro- vided that the request is supported by appropri- ate documents to ver ify the authenticity of the transaction. Nonresident holders of Spanish se- curities may freely t rans fer abroad accrued inter- est, dividends, and proceeds f rom the disposal of subscription rights. Purchasers of securities bought with internal pesetas must hold them for three years to qualify to t rans fer abroad the pro- ceeds f rom the liquidation of such securities. Profits and dividends on direct investments and rents on non-resident-owned real estate are free ly transferable abroad. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish f irms or with foreign insurance com- panies operating in Spain. Unless special authori- zation is otherwise granted, insurance contracts abroad are restricted to cover for exports and im- ports of goods and related operations. Most payments may be made without supporting documents. There are no limits on foreign exchange purchases for tourism (the maximum limit on for- eign exchange allowances was removed in March 1987). However, the exportation of bank notes or coins in excess of the equivalent of Ptas 350,000 in foreign currency and in excess of Ptas 100,000 in domestic currency must be reported and requires the prior approval of the Directorate- General of External Transactions. The proceeds from the liquidation of nonresident investments and capital are freely transferable abroad, provided that these investments have been duly registered at the Registry of Foreign Invest- ment (Registro de Inversiones Extranjeras). Exports and Export Proceeds As a general rule, exports may be made freely. However, exports of a limited number of goods (e.g., textiles, steel, and some copper by- products) require prior authorization f rom the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the destination or when exported to certain geographical areas (with distinctions being made between EC countries, Portugal, and third countries). Exporters may maintain up to 100 percent of ex- port proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with resident banks or banks abroad for a period of three months, after which up to 50 percent of the export proceeds may be maintained in resident banks only. The balance may be used by the account holder subject to exchange control regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 456 SPAIN Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market through autho- rized banks within 15 days of receipt.3 Capital For most direct foreign investments effected through participation in Spanish companies, prior verification is required only if participation exceeds 50 percent. Irrespective of the size of companies, such investments need to be communicated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification if they exceed Ptas 25 million, and can be considered approved if no response is received after 30 days. Special authorization is required for foreign investment in strategic sectors (such as defense- related industries, strategic minerals, and telecom- munications services) and in television, radio, air transport, and gambling, except for nonresidents of EC countries who must comply with EC provisions. EC residents are allowed to operate freely in all of these sectors, except in defense-related industries. Acquisition of branches by companies must be communicated to the Directorate-General of Exter- nal Transactions for verification only if the investor is a legal entity. Nonresidents may freely purchase shares, bonds, futures, and options. All types of commercial credit may be contracted without restriction. The contract- ing of medium-term suppliers' credits with nonresi- dent EC nationals requires prior administrative ver- ification, and the contracting of other types of suppliers' credit is subject to prior authorization. Individuals and juridical persons residing in Spain may freely negotiate financial loans in foreign currency or convertible pesetas, subject to com- pliance with the following conditions: (1) the amount of the loan does not exceed Ptas 1.5 billion; (2) the average maturity of the loan is at least three years, starting from the date of the first disburse- ment (foreign currency borrowing with shorter ma- turity is subject to authorization); (3) the loan is denominated in one of the convertible foreign cur- rencies quoted on the Spanish foreign exchange market or in convertible pesetas and will remain in that currency until maturity; and (4) the resident borrower is not a Spanish branch of the nonresident lending institution. A 30 percent nonremunerated deposit requirement applies to all loans exceeding Ptas 1.5 billion with a maturity of less than three years.4 Loans may be freely amortized three years after the date of disbursement. The borrower may, at any time, transfer the domiciliation of the loan to another authorized institution, in which case, at the request of the borrower, the current authorized in- stitution of domiciliation must transmit directly to the new bank of domiciliation the original Bank of Spain document on which all movements of funds effected through that institution are recorded. Pur- chases of financial or commercial claims that are not negotiable on the Spanish Stock Exchange by non- residents are subject to approval. Direct investments abroad by residents are de- fined according to Organization for Economic Co- operation and Development (OECD) guidelines, taking into account whether effective control over the foreign company has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the Spanish investment is at least 20 percent of the foreign com- pany's capital or if the Directorate-General of Exter- nal Transactions considers that an important or pre- dominant source of influence exists. Direct investments are defined to include participation in a foreign company, as well as in the increase in its capital; establishment of branches and subsidiaries; and granting of long-term loans, with a view to maintaining or establishing lasting economic links. Direct investments abroad are permitted freely. Direct investment projects, however, must be com- municated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification and statistical control. If no administrative notification is received within 30 days of the submission of application, it may be considered approved. Direct investments must be carried out within six months, unless an extension is authorized. Real estate investments abroad can be made freely. Reinvestments of the principal of a previous direct investment in a new direct or liber- alized portfolio investment must be undertaken within three months, and require prior verification in the former case (except where the purpose of the new direct investment is identical to that of the previous one). Portfolio investments by residents are defined as the purchase of securities issued by nonresidents (irrespective of the market of issuance) or issued by residents in a foreign market. Securities are defined to include equity, fixed or floating-rate instruments, or participations in investment trusts. Portfolio in- vestments by residents were fur ther liberalized, and the regulation that transactions not expressly mentioned need to be authorized was phased out in 1990. Residents can purchase abroad without 3With effect from April 19,1991, all foreign exchange proceeds were allowed to be maintained in foreign accounts. 4With effect from March 15, 1991, this deposit requirement was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 457 restriction monetary assets, and futures and options (on financial and commodities markets) denomi- nated in currencies quoted on the Spanish market. Securities bought on foreign stock exchanges must be deposited with designated Spanish financial in- termediaries for tax-reporting and withholding pur- poses. All returns on foreign investments must be converted into pesetas through those intermedi- aries. Residents are allowed to maintain accounts denominated in ECUs at the authorized banks.5 These accounts can be credited freely against the proceeds of the sale of foreign currencies acquired in accordance with exchange rate regulations or against the peseta. The issuance of securities denominated in foreign currencies in the domestic market is subject to ap- proval. Approval is granted liberally if the securities are listed on the Spanish Stock Exchange. Nonresi- dents may freely purchase foreign securities on Spanish stock exchanges. Such purchases must be reported by authorized banks. Nonresidents are permitted to sell these securities without restric- tion, provided that they purchased them initially with the proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. With the authorization of the Treasury, interna- tional organizations of which Spain is a member may issue securities denominated in pesetas in the domestic capital market, with the proceeds being considered fully convertible. Shares of foreign com- panies may be quoted on the Spanish Stock Ex- change. Financial loans by residents to nonresi- dents require prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Authorized banks are permitted to lend to nonresidents up to 50 percent of balances on their Convertible Peseta Accounts, and to open accounts in foreign currencies for non- residents without restriction. Proceeds from the sale of real estate are transfer- able abroad, provided that they were not financed from Ordinary Peseta Accounts. Proceeds, includ- ing capital gains, from the liquidation of shares and bonds may be transferred abroad; however, if the purchase was made with internal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, after which he may transfer the liquidation pro- ceeds abroad. The purchase of marketable foreign monetary instruments is not subject to restriction.6 Gold The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Imports in 5With effect from April 19,1991, all foreign exchange proceeds were allowed to be maintained in foreign accounts. 6With effect from April 19, 1991, the 50 percent limitation has been eliminated. the form of bullion are permitted if they are used as raw materials for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in manufactured forms (e.g., coins, medals, etc.) may be subject to quantitative restrictions, de- pending on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots are subject to a value- added tax at the rate of 33 percent. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) January 1. Under the terms of Article 43 of the Act of Accession to the European Community (EC), all products cited in Annex IV became freely import- able from the EC member countries (the main prod- ucts included plastic articles, rugs, cotton cloth, cotton clothing, certain sewing machines, and tele- visions with screens smaller than 42 centimeters). January 1. Customs tariffs on products from EC member countries were reduced by 12.5 percent of their 1986 levels. April 1. Importers were no longer required to fill in Statistical Declaration of Import Payments forms for import orders exceeding Ptas 500,000. Capital April 4. (I) The prohibition against payment of interest on Nonresident Convertible Peseta Ac- counts, with balances exceeding Ptas 10 million, was removed; (2) all remaining restrictions on pur- chases of marketable foreign monetary instruments by Spanish residents were removed; and (3) pur- chases (outright or repurchase agreements) of pub- lic bonds by nonresidents were fully liberalized. May 14. Banks were allowed to extend loans in foreign currencies to residents for financing real estate purchases abroad. June 19. The restrictions on the guaranteeing of loans extended or received by residents were elimi- nated. However, prior verification was required be- fore payments against such guarantees could begin. June 22. (1) The restrictions on purchases by resi- dents of securities denominated in pesetas issued by nonresidents on Spanish stock exchanges were removed; (2) operations of ECU accounts held by residents were fur ther liberalized; and (3) pur- chases by residents of shares issued by foreigners on the Spanish market would be classified as foreign investments but would not be subject to declaration. July 8. Nonresidents were allowed to purchase freely foreign securities in Spanish stock exchanges. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 SPAIN Such purchases must, however, be reported to the authorities by authorized banks. Nonresidents were also allowed to sell these securities without restriction, provided that they were purchased initially with the proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies. December 27. To comply with EC provisions, most of the remaining regulations limiting portfolio in- vestments by residents abroad and by nonresidents in Spain were abolished. Furthermore, residents of EC countries were allowed to invest freely in all economic sectors of the Spanish economy, except in defense-related industries. Foreigners were exempt from the income tax on their dividends and capital gains, provided that they did not have a permanent residence in Spain. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. The exchange rate of the Sri Lanka rupee against the U.S. dollar is determined daily by the Central Bank. The Central Bank determines daily the spot buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for its transactions with the commercial banks; it purchases and sells the U.S. dollar on a spot basis at the buying and selling rates so established. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 40.2250 and SL Rs 42.2550, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks provide a forward ex- change market for commercial transactions in which rates are freely determined. Commercial banks are required to buy forward foreign exchange proceeds from all exporters whenever exports exceed SL Rs 500,000, whether or not exporters avail them- selves of the Central Bank's export refinance facili- ties. They may cover such purchases by selling for- ward to their clients (i.e., importers and shipping agents) or to other authorized dealers. The average contract for the sale of foreign exchange to im- porters must not exceed of 180 days. The Central Bank operates in forward exchange market operations, and forward rates are quoted up to six months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Foreign Investment Advisory Committee handles applications relating to foreign investment in areas other than those coming within the pur- view of the Greater Colombo Economic Commis- sion (GCEC), which handles all applications for new foreign investments in shares up to 40 percent of the equity of listed companies through the Colombo Stock Exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments to, and receipts from, member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (i.e., Bangladesh, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan) in respect of current transactions must be effected in Asian Monetary Units or in the currency of the respective member of the Asian Clearing Union. For settlements with all other countries, pay- ments for imports may be made in any foreign cur- rency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a Nonresident Rupee Account. Proceeds from exports must be received either in designated foreign currencies,1 in Sri Lanka rupees from a non- resident account a foreign bank maintains with an authorized dealer, or in any other nonresident ac- count a person maintains with an authorized dealer as approved by the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (1) nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their departure, and those whose accounts are opened af ter their departure); (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1) and (2), the crediting of the initial and subse- quent deposits arising from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to these accounts and debits for remittances abroad require the prior approval of the Department. The opening and redesignating of accounts in category (3), credits arising from inward remittances, and local credits and debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 460 SRI LANKA Exchange Control; debits of these accounts for re- mittances abroad without exchange control ap- proval are not permitted. Accounts in category (4) are designated in the first instance as Nonresi- dent Blocked Accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the Department of Ex- change Control. Local debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Depart- ment of Exchange Control; however, local credits to them and debits for outward remittances require the prior approval of the Department. Under cate- gory (5), foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonresident accounts with a local com- mercial bank without the prior approval of the De- partment of Exchange Control. Nonresident Blocked Accounts are used for hold- ing funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, re- patriates, and emigrants. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disburse- ments and credit them on account of pensions, in- come tax refunds, and profits and dividends with- out prior approval. Funds in Blocked Accounts may be invested in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Subject to exchange control approval, proceeds from the liqui- dation of such investments can be credited to Blocked Accounts. Remittances up to a maximum of SL Rs 350,000 are allowed from these accounts with- out the prior approval of the exchange control au- thorities. Remittance of interest accrued to Blocked Accounts is fully transferable after deduction of taxes. Also retained in Blocked Accounts is a pro- portion of local currency earnings derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films; the owner may use such retained funds for certain specified pur- poses, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals who are or have been em- ployed abroad and nonnationals of Sri Lankan origin who reside outside Sri Lanka are allowed to maintain Nonresident Foreign Currency (NRFC) ac- counts in Sri Lanka in convertible currencies.2 Sri Lankans can also open such accounts, within 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka, with foreign ex- change they brought in or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by individuals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest payments in these six convertible currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited without exchange control approval for payments abroad or for pay- ments within Sri Lanka (converted to Sri Lanka rupees). Employment agencies that recruit Sri Lan- kan nationals for foreign employment are also al- lowed to maintain NRFC accounts to which their commission earnings may be credited. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may establish a Foreign Currency Banking Unit. These units may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresidents and from resident enterprises in the Investment Promo- tion Zone, and they may extend loans and advances in any designated foreign currency to any nonresi- dent and to any resident enterprise having GCEC status. In addition, the Foreign Currency Banking Units are allowed to accept time and demand de- posits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident may be approved by the Central Bank. Foreign Currency Banking Units are also au- thorized to operate savings accounts. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain specified imports, no prior li- censing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those subject to control for se- curity reasons; precious metals; alcohol; apparatus and equipment used in photographic and cin- ematographic laboratories; screens for projectors; multicolored photocopying apparatus; articles of cement (whether reinforced or not); concrete ce- ment blocks; encasements of industrial waste slugs, slag dress, ash and residues; other slag and ash, including kelp; fertilizer; drugs and pharmaceuti- cals; aircraft, including aircraft spare parts; motor cars; and certain consumer goods, as well as rice, flour, and wheat grains. As part of the measures introduced under the 1988 budget, the maximum import duty rate was lowered to 60 percent from 100 percent, except on luxury items, and the minimum rate was raised to 5 percent from zero percent, plus a 5 percent sur- charge, except on fertilizers, dried fish, books, and aids for the handicapped. Imports of specified items3 are restricted to gov- ernment or state corporations; these are referred to as "reserved items." Prior approval procedures ap- ply to imports of certain capital goods: certain ma- chinery imports relating to foreign investment re- quire the approval of the Greater Colombo Economic Commission, and certain machinery im- ports relating to local investment require the prior 2In deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3These include dates, chilies, onions, potatoes, certain petro- leum products, film, consumer textiles, caustic soda, tea chests, ju te hessian, mamoties, and matches. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 461 approval of the Local Investment Advisory Com- mittee; no prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Ac- counts, which were abolished for new credits as of November 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Control- ler of Imports and Exports. Except for imports by export-processing indus- tries and other specified transactions, all other im- ports may be effected only against sight letters of credit valid for shipment for 180 days. A100 percent advance deposit is required to be lodged against letters of credit at a commercial bank for the impor- tation of specified luxury commodities. A stamp duty of 3 percent is levied on letters of credit for other imports (excluding inputs used in export in- dustries) not fully covered by advance deposits. An authorized dealer may, without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange, approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit nonresident accounts against applications for the opening of a letter of credit and against proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a consignment does not exceed US$500 and if a consignment consists of raw materials and spare parts for industries and is for the direct use of the importer. Such imports should not be in commercial quantities. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles require exchange control permission. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange allowance of US$400 an adult and US$200 a child under 12 years, once every two years, for travel to the "Indian group of countries" (defined as Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan). Additional basic allowances of US$1,500 for an adult and US$750 for a child under 12 years of age are granted every three years for travel to other countries. Additional foreign exchange is pro- vided to pay for air fares. The prior approval of the Central Bank is not required for these sales of ex- change, as this function has been delegated to the banks. Allowances for official travel require a certifi- cate from the head of the relevant institution. Com- mercial banks may also provide foreign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter from the chairman, director, partner, or sole proprietor of the company recommending the par- ticular trip abroad, and with confirmation that the cost of the exchange will be borne by the respective busi- ness establishment. In such cases, foreign exchange is granted to the directors, partners, and sole proprie- tors of private companies at the rate of US$100 a day for the Indian group of countries, and US$150 a day for travel to other destinations. The rates applicable to the chairmen and directors of public companies are US$150 and US$225 a day, respectively. Other execu- tives of private companies may obtain up to US$60 a day for the Indian group of countries and up to US$100 a day for travel to other countries, and em- ployees of public companies may obtain US$100 and US$150 a day, respectively. Allowances for travel for the purpose of employment are limited to £ stg. 100. Exchange for emergency travel for persons who have already used the basic allowance may be released with the prior approval of the Central Bank in amounts up to Indian Rs 750 for the Indian group of countries and £ stg. 200 for other countries. Applications for busi- ness allowances in the form of foreign credit cards are limited to the directors and employees of exporting companies whose export turnover exceeds Rs 1.0 mil- lion a year. Foreign exchange is granted for medical treatment abroad as recommended by a specialist, subject to production of hospital bills, and so on. In addition to hospital charges, a monthly living al- lowance is granted up to the equivalent of US$400 for an adult and US$200 for a child under 12 years for the Indian group of countries; the corresponding amounts for other countries are US$1,500 and US$750, respectively. In addition to the living al- lowance, an incidental allowance up to a maximum of £ stg. 105 is also granted for an accompanied person. Authorized dealers are also allowed to sell foreign exchange for advertising charges and for subscrip- tions and payments to international tourist organiza- tions. Payments for other types of travel allowance require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Foreign exchange is granted for education abroad at a recognized university or technical institute, to cover passage fare, living expenses, tuition fees, and textbooks. For living expenses, foreign ex- change limits are established for (1) undergraduate or professional and technical education, and for (2) postgraduate education, according to four groups of countries. For the Indian group of coun- tries, foreign exchange is made available up to In- dian Rs 8,640 a year and Indian Rs 11,520 a year, for undergraduate and postgraduate studies, respec- tively; for Europe (excluding the United Kingdom and including the U.S.S.R.), up to £ stg. 3,120 a year, and £ stg. 3,840 a year, respectively; for Aus- tralia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, up to US$7,200 a year and US$8,640 a year, respectively; and for all other countries, up to US$4,320 a year and US$5,760 a year, respectively. A clothing allowance of £ stg. 150 (or its equivalent in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 SRI LANKA other foreign currency) is allowed once in four years in addition to the above-mentioned amounts. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit a maximum of two thirds of their gross monthly income for family maintenance. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enter- prises may remit up to two thirds of their monthly earnings if their employment contract does not ex- ceed three years, and up to one third if the employ- ment contract exceeds three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the free trade zone may re- mit up to 90 percent of their monthly earnings. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign ex- change for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 percent of the f .o .b ., c. & f ., or c . i .f. value, as appropriate, are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad; commis- sions exceeding 5 percent require specific approval. No remittances for insurance on exports are permit- ted; such insurance could be obtained from a local state insurance corporation or a private insurance company. However, remittances for reinsurance are permitted to foreign reinsurers. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts with credit balances outstanding as of Novem- ber 15,1977 may use these funds for travel expendi- tures and other current invisibles without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, without prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional institutions, fees in re- spect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and payments for the importation of material for corre- spondence courses. Profit remittances of nonresident partners of part- nerships in Sri Lanka and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of applica- tion and do not include undistributed profits of the previous years or reserves of the company. For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the com- pany's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remit- table profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of a nonresident partner) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the bene- ficiary resides abroad; and (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount owed to each. For final profits, the following docu- ments must be submitted: an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the re- mittance represents the final installment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under refer- ence; and a computation of the remittable profits, and also the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Remittances of interim dividends can be made, provided that the following documents are submitted: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors confirm- ing that the amount to be remitted represents only dividends for the period to which it relates; (2) a certification that the remittance constitutes an interim dividend based on the unaudited accounts for the period; (3) a certificate confirming that the benefici- ary resides outside Sri Lanka; (4) a schedule indicat- ing the names of the beneficiaries and the net amounts owed to them; and (5) documentary evi- dence from auditors confirming payment of dividend tax. The remittance of a final dividend requires the submission of an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim dividends. Resident nonnationals may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies4 without prior ex- change control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Banking Unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by checks is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward re- mittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees au- thorized by the Controller of Exchange for remit- tance abroad; debits are limited to outward remittances and to payments in foreign currency converted into Sri Lanka rupees. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign ex- change they declared to customs when they entered Sri Lanka. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by nonresident travelers may be re- converted into foreign currency, with the prior ap- proval of the Controller of Exchange. The amount of foreign currency notes that diplomats, other foreign missions, and their non-Sri Lankan staff traveling abroad can take with them is limited to 20 percent of their travel expenses. Residents may take out 4Deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 463 foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding £ stg. 20 a person (£ stg. 10 a child under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leav- ing Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds A number of specified items require prior licens- ing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. The State Gem Corporation exercises control over ex- ports of gems; the private sector may export gems on a consignment basis with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. The Corporation handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export their gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. As part of the measures introduced under the 1988 budget, export duties on nontraditional exports of agricultural and marine products were eliminated, and export duties on tea were reduced by an average 33.5 percent. In addition, export-licensing restrictions were lifted for a number of products. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be collected within a period ranging from 21 days to 6 months, depending on the term of payment. Also, all export proceeds exceeding SL Rs 500,000 in value must be sold forward to a local bank. Special ar- rangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange pro- ceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his foreign exchange holdings, including currency notes and coins, exceed- ing US$5,000 if he intends to take them out on depar- ture. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The importation of Indian and Pakistani currency is not permitted. A person enter- ing Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coins may be brought in without restriction. Capital Foreign direct investments are permitted in new projects with or without prior approval of the Con- troller of Exchange as approved by the GCEC. Pro- ceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in these projects, along with the capital appreciation, may be remitted in full. Investments in shares by nonresidents, up to 40 percent of the equity capital of existing listed public companies, are permitted without prior approval from the Controller of Ex- change through a Share Investment External Rupee Account (SIERA) maintained at a commercial bank. Proceeds from the sale of these shares may be re- patriated automatically, net of tax, if any. Blocked funds held by nonresidents with the approval of the Controller of Exchange in commercial banks are also permitted for investment in approved projects. Sale proceeds of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Proceeds from the sale or liqui- dation of other foreign investments in Sri Lanka may be repatriated in full only with prior approval from the Minister of Finance. Investments abroad by residents are not gener- ally permitted unless there is evidence that they will promote the country's exports and generate reason- able profits. Resident-owned securities, on which principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually, or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency, must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such se- curities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to emi- grants upon presentation of appropriate documen- tation. At the time of departure, emigrants can obtain passage to the country of migration by nor- mal direct route and 20 percent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Exchange equivalent up to £ stg. 500 an adult and £ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SL Rs 15,000 and jewelry up to SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant and SL Rs 10,000 for each male emigrant can be exported. The Department of Exchange Control can approve the transfer of pensions in full, or up to £ stg. 100 a month, including pension and other income, subject to submission of an income tax clearance certificate. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings. Such persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provi- sions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 SRI LANKA Exports with the approval of the Central Bank; the latter is the sole importer of gold into Sri Lanka. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are restricted, except for imports of gold for the production of jewelry for export. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments January 10. Letters of credit covering imports by export-processing industries were no longer required. May 5. Import-licensing requirements for certain plastic products were abolished. July 10. Reconditioned motor buses that can carry 30-40 passengers and are not older than 10 years could be imported without a license. August 15. Facilities to import raw materials un- der the Manufacture in Bond Scheme were ex- tended to cover raw materials for the export- oriented calibrated gemstone industry. November 11. The importation of four-wheel, sec- ondhand reconditioned tractors that were manufac- tured in or after 1972 was permitted without an import license. December 27. The importation of all food items was permitted with a Load Port Survey Report. All commercial banks were permitted to release import documents without referring to the ex- change control authorities in respect of shipments effected within 14 days of the expiration of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles January 29. Authorized dealers were permitted to issue international credit cards to the directors of exporting companies whose annual turnover amounts to SL Rs. 6.1 million or more, against their per diem business exchange entitlement. April 15. Remittances of commissions on export earnings exceeding 5 percent of the f.o.b. value were subject to prior approval from the Central Bank. Foreign currency notes were permitted to be issued up to 50 percent of the exchange drawn out of FCBU funds for travel purposes. Capital October 25. The commercial banks were autho- rized to open Share Investment External Rupee Ac- counts (SIERA) for nonresidents, to facilitate their investments in securities at the Colombo Stock Ex- change. They were also authorized to make out- ward remittances in respect of sale proceeds of se- curities from the credit balances in SIERA, net of tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official market, in which the exchange rate for the Sudanese pound is pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of LSd 4.50 = US$1; and (2) a ("free") commer- cial bank market. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates in the commercial bank market were LSd 12.10 = US$1 and LSd 12.30 = US$1, respectively. All export proceeds are converted at the commercial bank market rate, except those aris- ing from 50 percent of cotton exports and 50 percent of gum arabic exports. On the receipts side, in addi- tion to 50 percent of cotton export proceeds and 50 percent of gum arabic export proceeds, the other transactions effected at the official market include government loans and most grants and selected invisible receipts. On the payments side, the official market handles imports of petroleum products (ex- cept some oils and lubricants) and a range of other intermediate goods, together with government im- ports and invisible payments including debt ser- vice. Fifty percent of the financing of imports of wheat and by the cotton sector is effected at the commercial bank market rate, and all of the financ- ing of imports of ju te is effected at the commercial bank market rate. All other receipts are effected at the commercial bank market rate, which is quoted uniformly by all commercial banks. The commercial banks also pur- chase the remittances of Sudanese nationals work- ing abroad. The commercial bank rate is deter- mined by a committee of commercial bankers representing seven banks, four public and three private. Chairmanship of the committee rotates among the public banks. In principle, the commit- tee meets daily to fix the rate. The commercial banks purchase foreign exchange for their own account. The commercial banks' resources finance imports from a list of commodities determined by the Minis- try of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply, as well as certain service payments. Uses of commercial bank foreign exchange resources are supervised by the Bank of Sudan, which also determines the working balance needs of the banks and purchases any surplus. Banks may provide foreign exchange to importers of products on a positive list, which contains price- decontrolled items. Foreign exchange is provided on "Murabaha" terms, which provide for a 30-100 percent profit margin in local currency for the bank, and the profit is remitted to the depositor who sup- plied the foreign exchange. This system gives rise to an effective exchange rate in the range of LSd 16- LSd 25 per U.S. dollar depending on the profit margin. For transactions under the bilateral payments ar- rangement with Egypt, the official exchange rate is used for invisibles (except for salaries of Egyptian missions, remittances to Sudanese students in Egypt, and travel expenses to Egypt), and the com- mercial rate is used for all other transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks. Commercial banks may not effect any payments from their foreign exchange accounts without ver- ification by the Bank of Sudan in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. The issu- ance of registration forms and the licensing of im- ports and certain exports (except of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Coop- eration, and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses must be validated by the Bank of Sudan. Official import payments and other foreign pay- ments are approved within the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, in co- ordination with the Bank of Sudan and the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries—except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agreement —and all monetary areas (the "convert- ible area") may be made in foreign currency from any Free Foreign Currency Account or Special For- eign Currency Account, while receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents are allowed to keep foreign exchange in "free," "special," and "allotment" foreign exchange 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 SUDAN accounts, depending on the source of funds. Bal- ances in the free accounts may be replenished only from (1) direct transfers from abroad; (2) foreign exchange registered on customs declarations; and (3) salary payments in foreign currency by diplo- matic missions, and regional and international or- ganizations. All foreign exchange must be surren- dered with documentary evidence of transfer. Balances in free accounts may be used only for (1) transfers abroad; (2) withdrawals (in the form of traveler's checks or cash, the latter up to a limit of US$200) for travel abroad by the account holder and his family after verification of fulfillment of travel requirements; (3) payments made in bank checks to the Duty-Free Shop Corporation; (4) payments of hotel bills and travel tickets by certified check in foreign currency; and (5) purchases of Sudanese pounds at the commercial bank rate. Balances in exporters' allotment accounts may be credited with export proceeds retained by exporters. Retention ratios are zero for cotton and gum arabic, 25 percent for other major products, and 60 percent for others. Balances in these accounts may be used to import specified industrial and agricultural inputs. Bal- ances in special accounts may be credited only with transfers from abroad by international organiza- tions and members of the diplomatic corps, spec- ified Arab organizations, and foreign companies operating in oil drilling and mining, construction, engineering, and similar activities. Balances in spe- cial accounts may be used for transactions that are allowed through free accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain imports are prohibited for protec- tive reasons, and others are not being licensed. Permitted imports are financed from different sources according to categories. Imports by certain public sector entities and other imports considered essential are financed from the foreign exchange resources of the official market. Imports of certain items, consisting mainly of raw materials and in- puts and essential consumer goods, are financed from commercial bank market resources with the approval of the Bank of Sudan. Import licenses specify the method of financing. Import licenses must be obtained from the Minis- try of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply for all goods imported into Sudan, and are granted upon favorable decision from an interministerial imports committee (Imports Guidance Committee). Before being licensed, public sector imports must be ap- proved by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, and imports under a foreign aid program must be approved by the Commodity Aid Commit- tee. All import licenses must be validated at the Administration for Foreign Exchange of the Bank of Sudan. Import insurance normally must be taken out with local companies. Imports financed from the commercial bank market are subject to an ad- vance deposit of 5 percent of the c . i .f. value. Goods that would otherwise be subject to the advance de- posit requirement are exempt when financed with suppliers' credits of at least two years' maturity, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requires a cash margin de- posit ranging from 10 percent to 100 percent of transaction value, depending on the import cate- gory. A stamp duty of LSd 25 is levied on the ap- plication form for each transfer in respect of private sector imports. Imports of nonessential products (all imports except petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, wheat and wheat flour, pharmaceuticals, fer- tilizers, insecticides, and selected industrial inputs) are subject to a defense tax of 10 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. For payments for invisibles made through the commercial banks, the appropri- ate forms must be verified by the Bank of Sudan. Insurance payments require a certificate from the insurance controller; transfers for medical treat- ment require a certified cost estimate from the Med- ical Commission; transfers of royalties payable to foreign bodies require a royalty exchange permit from the government body concerned (generally, the Ministry of Industry). For travelers not in pos- session of a foreign exchange account, a limit of US$50 a person a year applies to purchases of for- eign exchange from commercial banks with proof of a round-trip airline ticket purchase. In addition, allocations to travelers to Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maximum of US$100 a person a year in clearing dollars. Student expendi- tures abroad are effected at the commercial bank rate. Departing travelers must provide evidence that all foreign exchange in their possession was drawn from their own foreign exchange account in a com- mercial bank, or was reported on a declaration form before they entered into Sudan, or has been ap- proved by the Bank of Sudan. The exportation of more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 467 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are required for all exports except for cotton and gum arabic. All exporters must submit export contracts and the "EX" export form to a com- mercial bank for approval. Export proceeds must be repatriated to the do- mestic banking system within three months of the date of shipment. Fifty percent of proceeds in con- vertible currencies from exports of cotton and gum arabic must be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan. In the case of proceeds from exports of other major products, 25 percent is retained by exporters, 50 percent is converted at the commercial bank mar- ket rate, and 25 percent must be surrendered to the commercial bank executing the transaction. In the case of exports of other products, 60 percent is re- tained by the exporter, 25 percent is converted at the commercial bank market rate, and 15 percent is allocated to the commercial bank executing the transaction. Foreign exchange retained by the exporter is placed in an allotment account and may be used to import specified industrial and agri- cultural inputs. Proceeds allotted to the commercial banks are used to finance foreign exchange costs and to meet obligations of the "Murabaha" and "Mudaraba." When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letters of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; otherwise, a surrender date is usually specified. Some major export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. There is an export tax on gum arabic, cotton, hides and skins, and ivory. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad (SNWAs) are allowed to keep free foreign exchange accounts. The repatriation of funds from SNWAs is transacted through the commercial banks at the commercial bank market exchange rate. In December 1989, a schedule of minimum transfers was established, as follows: US$500 for laborers, US$1,000 for civil ser- vants, US$2,000 for professionals, US$4,000 for pro- fessors and experts, and US$6,000 for businessmen. Transfers in excess of these minimum amounts enti- tle the remitter to a customs exemption of 20 percent of the amount remitted, at the official exchange rate. A transfer of US$8,000 is required to obtain an import license for a passenger car, and a transfer of US$4,000 is required to obtain an import license for a light truck. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coins of other currencies, but may not import more than LSd 20 in Sudanese cur- rency. The declaration of foreign exchange is a legal requirement for all arrivals into Sudan. The valida- tion period of the currency declaration form (after which compulsory surrender must be made) is two months. An official declaration is required for the foreign exchange to be credited to a foreign cur- rency account, to be sold to banks, or to be re- exported. Capital Public sector capital transactions (including debt- service payments), except for certain specified oper- ations, are effected through the official exchange market. All incoming private sector foreign capital (loans or equity), other than bank capital, is con- verted at the commercial bank rate. Foreign direct investments are permitted in accor- dance with the existing laws and regulations. Repatriation of share capital and loan principal to nonresidents is subject to the submission of a certifi- cate from the Bank of Sudan stating the value of the foreign share in the capital and the loans received in Sudan; equity shares require a certification of liqui- dation and tax compliance. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to cer- tain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell domestically produced gold in Sudan. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Co- operation, and Supply; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for pro- cessing and subsequent reimportation. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement June 18. The list of products that could be im- ported at the official exchange rate was shortened; the new list consisted of government imports, oil and derivatives (except for some oils and lubri- cants), wheat and flour, sackcloth, fertilizer, pesticides and yeast. June 19. The exchange rates (clearing) for transac- tions under the bilateral payments arrangement ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 SUDAN with Egypt were adjusted. The official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar would apply to all invisible transactions, except for the salaries of Egyptian mis- sions in Sudan, remittances to Sudanese students in Egypt and travel expenses to Egypt. The commer- cial exchange rate for the U.S. dollar would apply to all other transactions, including camels exported after April 1988. August 15. Student expenditures abroad would be effected at the commercial bank rate. August 26. The commercial banks were permitted to provide foreign exchange to finance imports of industrial inputs and consumer goods on a positive list whose prices had been decontrolled. Foreign exchange is provided on a Murabaha basis, with provision for a 30-100 percent profit margin in local currency for the bank. The principal and profit are remitted to the supplier of foreign exchange, Sudanese nationals working abroad, or other de- positors, on profit-sharing "Mudaraba" terms. This system would give rise to an effective exchange rate in the range of LSd 16-LSd 25 per US$1, depending on the profit margin. August 27. The exchange rate for the exportation of cotton was adjusted, from the average based on 70 percent at the official rate and 30 percent at the commercial rate, to the average based on 50 percent of the two rates. The financing of cotton sector im- ports was also divided equally between the two markets, except for ju te imports, which would be financed at the commercial bank rate. September 4. The financing of wheat imports was modified, whereby 50 percent would be subject to the official rate, and 50 percent to the commercial bank rate. Foreign Currency Accounts August 14. The commercial banks were instructed to set up "Mudaraba" and "Murabaha" funds in foreign currencies. Funds were to be used in accor- dance with a priority list established by the Government. Imports and Import Payments June 25. During a period of two months (ending August 24), holders of free and special foreign ex- change accounts were permitted to use foreign ex- change balances existing on June 25,1990 to finance imports of industrial inputs, subject to the issuance of an import permit for this purpose. August 16. The grace period for the use of foreign exchange accounts to finance certain imports was extended by one month. October 8. Holders of foreign exchange accounts were permitted to import industrial and agricultural inputs, car parts, and office supplies. October 13. An import list containing products used in commercial investment was published. Exports and Export Proceeds June 28. Export procedures were simplified, as follows: (1) exporters were required to submit copies of export contracts and the "EX" export form to a commercial bank, instead of to the Bank of Sudan, for approval; (2) export proceeds must be repatriated to the domestic banking system within three months of the shipment date; (3) new pro- cedures were introduced, regulating the allocation and retention of export proceeds, except for cotton and gum arabic. For proceeds from exports of paper products, oilseeds, edible oil and oil-cake, livestock and meat, leather, sorghum, and maize, 25 percent is to be retained by the exporter, 50 percent is to be converted at the free exchange rate market, and 25 percent is to be allocated to the commercial bank executing the transaction. For proceeds from ex- ports of other products (except cotton and gum arabic), 60 percent is to be allotted to the exporter, 25 percent is to be converted at the free market exchange rate, and 15 percent is to be allotted to the commercial bank executing the transaction; (4) bal- ances retained by the exporter are to be held in a special allotment account, and may be used to im- port specified industrial and agricultural inputs, subject to the issuance of import licenses; (5) bal- ances on allotment accounts may not be sold except to an accredited bank; and (6) balances allotted to the commercial banks must be used to finance for- eign exchange costs and obligations to the "Murabaha" and "Mudaraba" funds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Sf 1.78876 - US$1. On De- cember 31,1990, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Sf 1.77 and Sf 1.80, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in Amster- dam. There is no exchange market in Suriname. A commission of 1 percent is charged on purchases of foreign exchange, which is payable to the Central Bank. The commercial banks charge commissions of 2.0 percent on sales of foreign currency and 0.25 percent on transfers. A "conversion rate" of Sf 5 = US$1 is used for the valuation of "own-funds" imports, and the Government sells most goods ob- tained under bridging assistance from the Nether- lands at a special conversion rate of Sf 2.50 = Sf 1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are subject to licensing, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other do- mestic assets. Import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Economic Affa irs .2 In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must also be approved by the Central Bank, but the release of foreign exchange for all external payments is ap- proved by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with other ministries. In principle, imports of medi- cal supplies, fuels, raw materials, spare parts, and educational supplies are given priority in the licens- ing system, but the full basis for allocation is not published. The Central Bank is empowered to provide foreign exchange for import payments (sub- ject to presentation of an import license, which serves as a general authorization for payment); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Exter- nal payments other than for the importation of goods require a license from the Foreign Exchange Commission. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for invisible payments not requiring an exchange license, the authorized banks are not per- mitted to sell foreign exchange unless the remitter submits an exchange license. Exports also require a license from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Com- mercial banks may accept free of license those in- ward transfers of foreign exchange that do not re- sult from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Sur- iname and foreign countries are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies.3 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Sur- iname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These ac- counts must not be overdrawn and, except for cer- tain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Barbados dollars, and Guyana dollars. 2However, two specified mining companies do not need li- censes for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Suriname, provided that they pay for imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 470 SURINAME open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresi- dents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname bank notes mailed from abroad; nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may not be credited with Suriname tender. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Im- ports of some commodities are prohibited,4 and imports of another group of commodities are sub- ject to quotas under the Comprehensive Decree of May 11, 1982.5 The Ministry of Finance allocates foreign ex- change according to three priority criteria. The highest priority list covers basic foods tuffs, hydro- carbons, and pharmaceuticals. The second priority list consists of inputs for cement production, subsis- tence payments to Surinamese students living abroad, and transfers to embassies abroad. The lowest priority list includes spare parts. A govern- ment agency, the Suriname Central Importation Service, acts in part as a distributor of goods mainly to the outlying districts. Import licenses are granted more liberally to individuals and companies using their own foreign exchange ("own-funds" licenses). The import license serves as a general authoriza- tion for payment. For payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the Central Bank. Import licenses are valid for six months, 4The prohibition applies to imports of pigs (excluding those for breeding); chicken, duck, and turkey meat, pork, fish (excluding kwiekwie fish and smoked herring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, or frozen, salted, dried, or precooked); vegetables (ex- cluding potatoes, onions, and garlic); edible roots and tubers; citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts; green and roasted cof- fee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (excluding baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet), aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup; noodles and macaroni; jam, jelly, and marmalade (exclud- ing those for diabetics); peanut butter; syrups and concentrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics); firewood and other nonprocessed wood, railroad ties, shingles, wooden structures for con- struction, wooden tiles and panels, wooden tools, handles, and coat hangers; men's and boys' shoes (excluding rubber and plas- tic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. 5The commodities to which import quotas are applied include kwie-kwie fish, milk powder, potatoes, onions, garlic, fru i ts and nuts (other than citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), de- caffeinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain preserved vegetables, matches, furnishings, ready-made clothing, and furn i ture (excluding those for business establish- ments, such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5 percent and a statistical fee of 1.5 percent are levied on the c . i .f. value of all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; applica- tion for a license must be submitted to the Foreign Exchange Commission at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 an item a month on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth) as well as for advertising expenses and payments for books. Travel allowances for residents are subject to li- censing and are limited to the equivalent of Sf 50 a person a calendar year for travel to Guyana and French Guiana, and Sf 270 a person a calendar year for travel to other countries. A person may be granted the maximum amount of Sf 320 a year for travel to other countries, provided that he forfeits the right to purchase foreign exchange for travel to Guyana and French Guiana (50 percent of these amounts apply to children under 12 years). The authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applica- tions for larger amounts of exchange for travel pur- poses are approved on a case-by-case basis. Remit- tances for support of family members abroad require an individual license, which is granted only for full-time registered students of disciplines es- sential to, but not taught in, Suriname. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or de- preciation or direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Commis- sion for verification. These payments are tem- porarily suspended. Both resident and nonresident travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The exportation of foreign bank notes by traveling residents is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Economic Affairs. Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by letters of credit opened by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 471 buyers abroad, and exporters undertake to sur- render the foreign currency proceeds within 30 days to the Central Bank. The Ministry of Economic Affairs ascertains with the relevant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance with world market prices. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only on the ad- vice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The exportation of ba- boon wood is prohibited and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain export companies have received special permission from the Foreign Ex- change Commission to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Exports of logs are subject to a tax of 10 percent to 50 percent of f.o.b. value, depending on the type of wood; and exports of rough-hewn timber are subject to a tax of 10 percent of f.o.b. value. All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 percent of their f.o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency. Travelers must de- clare all domestic and foreign currency in their pos- session on entry; resident travelers must exchange at an authorized bank any foreign currency in their possession. The amount that nonresidents may take out of the country in foreign currency must be smaller than the amount they brought in and de- clared on entry. Residents of Guyana and French Guiana must exchange convertible currency in an amount equivalent to Sf 200 (50 percent of these amounts apply to children under 12 years). Un- spent balances of such guilders can be reconverted into convertible currency, provided that the visit was shorter than ten days in each case and that the visitor spent more than Sf 50 a day. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Commission provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The deci- sion covers investments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31,1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20 per- cent. Transfers in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. The Foreign Exchange Commission may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates of more than Sf 10,000, further annual trans- fers are permitted so as to spread them over a period of not more than ten years. The Commission may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in for- eign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently, Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family may be permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be autho- rized under exceptional circumstances. Outward transfers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries6 Sur- inamese corporate shares that have been desig- nated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Transfers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese in- terests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresi- dents by nonbank residents requires the prior ap- proval of the Foreign Exchange Commission. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are re- stricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are re- quired, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks are permitted to place a part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The Central Bank, the authorized banks, and the correspondent banks have made an arrangement whereby the Central Bank guarantees the letters of credit issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks 6Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 472 SURINAME keep their balances abroad at a minimum level.7 The authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corresponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank and Grassalco). Lo- cally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Commission by sale to the Cen- tral Bank. The authorized gold buyers are permit- ted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings be- tween residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet de- mand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins—with face values of Sf 100, Sf 200, and Sf 250—are legal tender. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; autho- rized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and 7This arrangement applies to the nationally controlled Land- bouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, but not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. exports of gold in any form other than jewelry re- quire exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Ex- change Commission; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident trav- elers may also freely bring in gold, subject to decla- ration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement October 1. The commission charged by commer- cial banks on sales of foreign currency was raised to 2.0 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. Nonresident travelers were no longer required to exchange the equivalent of Sf 500 in convertible currency when entering Suriname at Zanderij International Airport, Nickerie, or Albina. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural emalangeni), which is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 = R1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the floating rate of the South African com- mercial rand against the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1990, the closing buying and selling rates were E 2.5585 and E 2.5600, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar, and for the European Currency Unit (ECU). The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies of the member states of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), based on their relationship with the SDR as reported by the clearinghouse operated by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. These currencies include the Kenya shilling, the Malawi kwacha, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. Commercial banks are generally able to meet demands for forward sales of foreign currency against emalangeni. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Swaziland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 11, 1989. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland is part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA), which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, these are not controlled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johan- nesburg market according to the terms and condi- tions ruling in that market. In relations with coun- tries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, but Swaziland has not adopted the dual exchange rate system that was reintroduced in that country in September 1985. Financial rand may not be acquired by, or held for account of, any resident of Lesotho, South Africa, or Swaziland. The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restric- tions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are licensed in conformity with specific import reg- ulations. Import licenses granted in Swaziland enti- tle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be utilized, but the Swazi au- thorities are responsible for overall control of import licenses and payments procedures. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to any one member of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to en- sure that export proceeds are repatriated in the pre- scribed manner and within the stipulated period. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of cur- rent payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic exchange allowances for tourist travel are E 10,000 for each adult, and E 5,000 for each child, a year. For business travel, the basic allowance is E 750 a person a day, not exceed- ing E 15,000 a year. Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of bona fide need. Residents traveling to the member countries of the PTA must use traveler's checks denominated in the units of account of the PTA (UAPTA). To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking before departure. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 SWAZILAND Capital All inward capital transfers require the prior ap- proval of the CBS and must be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent re- patriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior ap- proval. In August 1987, an agreement was reached between the Reserve Bank of South Africa and the CBS to allow some nonresidents to invest in specific projects in Swaziland through the financial rand mechanism by acquiring shares in new companies and by purchasing shares in existing nonquoted companies through South African intermediaries. Priority is given to investments involving the estab- lishment or expansion of manufacturing enter- prises, subject to evidence of investment in fixed assets of most of the funds provided through finan- cial rand. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. In managing the exchange rate of the krona, the Sveriges Riksbank (the central bank) is guided by a trade-weighted index based on a basket of the 15 currencies of Sweden's most important trading partners. In constructing the index, the Swedish authorities established two criteria to be met by each country and currency included in the basket: (1) the country had to account for at least 1 percent of Sweden's total foreign trade (exports plus im- ports) during the previous five-year period, and (2) each currency had to be quoted daily on the foreign exchange market in Stockholm. The weights are proportional to Sweden's foreign trade with the countries whose currencies are included in the in- dex, with the exception that the weight of the U.S. dollar has been doubled and that of the other currencies adjusted accordingly. To take account of changes in average trade shares, the weights are adjusted each year (on April 1) on the basis of trade statistics for the last five calendar years. At present, the weights are as follows (base period 1985-89): U.S. dollar Deutsche mark Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish markka French franc Netherlands guilder Italian lira Belgian franc Japanese yen Swiss franc Spanish peseta Austrian schilling Canadian dollar Total 21.9 16.7 10.7 8.5 7.4 6.9 5.4 4.6 4.0 3.7 3.8 2.2 1.6 1.4 1.2 100.0 The index value of 132 represents the benchmark for the effective value following the devaluation on October 8, 1982 (August 29, 1977 = 100). The ex- change rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around this benchmark; beginning in June 1985, fluctuations in the spot rate are limited to within 1.5 percent on either side of the announced benchmark. An average of the daily index values is published weekly by the Riksbank. The market buying and selling rates for spot transactions in 475 U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, on Decem- ber 31,1990 were SKr 5.6970 and SKr 5.6990, respec- tively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the cross rates in interna- tional markets. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks and residents any foreign cur- rency on a spot or forward basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may also purchase (sell) foreign currencies, spot or forward, from (to) foreign banks and other nonresidents against any foreign currency or Swed- ish kronor credited (debited) to a kronor account. Also, currency option contracts may be concluded freely with both residents and nonresidents. For prudential purposes, limits are placed on the net foreign exchange positions (spot, forward, op- tions) in individual foreign currencies and the total net position in all foreign currencies. The limit for each foreign currency and for the total net position is equal to 10 percent of a bank's capital base. For a bank that is an authorized dealer, this latter limit is equal to 15 percent of its capital base. Banks may grant overdrafts to nonresidents and may incur for- eign exchange net liabilities for which the same limits apply. This enables the banks to borrow for- eign currency from nonresidents for on-lending to foreign banks or other nonresidents or to residents. Lending abroad in kronor is also freely permitted. Swedish banks may, while observing their limits on net foreign exchange holdings, borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market. A limit also exists on a bank's total net positions calculated as the sum of all lia- bility positions. This limit is equal to 20 percent of the bank's capital base and, for authorized market dealers, to 30 percent. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls regulations were abolished in 1990. All current payments are free of exchange control, provided that they are made through cur- rency traders in accordance with the Sveriges Riksbank Act (1988:1385). When required, import and export licenses are issued by the National Board ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 476 SWEDEN of Trade, except those for foods tu f fs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Market Board. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Sweden notified the Fund, on September 10, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current in- ternational transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through an External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts External Kronor Accounts may be held by nonresi- dents domiciled abroad, including persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for payments and transfers for conver- sion into any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fish- ery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Albania, Bul- garia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. However, most imports from these countries are liberalized. Imports of certain textile products from some countries and territories (Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Malta, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan Province of China, Thailand, Turkey, and Yugoslavia) are limited through special arrangements. In addition, imports of specified textiles from any source other than the European Communities (EC), the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) countries, Australia, Canada, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, as well as imports of most iron and steel products from all countries, are subject to import licensing for sur- veillance purposes. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Payments for imports may be made freely through an authorized currency trader. Importers are also permitted to accept foreign suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Invisible payments may be made by residents in favor of nonresidents without limit or restrictions, provided that they are made through an authorized currency trader. Foreign exchange for travel abroad may be acquired freely. Each person leaving Sweden may take out Swed- ish bank notes and coins without limitation. While abroad, residents may open accounts abroad, pro- vided that at the end of their stay, the balance is transferred to Sweden. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the People's Democratic Republic of Korea are subject to export licensing. All other ex- ports, with the exception of scrap metal, are free from license. Exports to South Africa are pro- hibited. Proceeds from exports of goods may be sold for kronor or kept in a foreign currency account in Sweden and used by the holder to make payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each per- son entering Sweden may bring in unlimited amounts of bank notes, coins, and other means of payment. Capital All capital transactions are free, provided that they are conducted through an authorized currency trader. For tax control and statistical purposes, how- ever, residents are generally not allowed to deposit capital in foreign bank accounts or to effect or re- ceive payments through such an account. This ban does not apply to residents conducting business from a business location abroad, to exporters, to travel operators, and to a few other categories. Fur- thermore, residents are not allowed to purchase life insurance policies abroad if the premium exceeds Skr 3,000 a year. Transactions in securities must be carried out through an authorized currency trader who is a securities broker or a broker who has re- ceived special approval from the Riksbank. Foreign securities must also be deposited with such an institution. Investments in South Africa are not allowed. Gold There are no special regulations on trading in gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 477 Changes During 1990 Administration of Control July 1. (I) The Exchange Control Act and the Exchange Control Ordinance were abolished, and Parliament passed the Emergency Contingency Act, which enabled the Government to decree, after consultation with the Riksbank, the imposition of exchange controls if the country is subject to excep- tional circumstances, for example, war or a risk of war. (2) An act governing payments to and from another country came into force. It stipulates that payments to and from another country are to be conducted through an authorized currency trader. Transactions in securities are to be carried out through an authorized currency trader, or an autho- rized securities broker. It also stipulates that resi- dents are generally not allowed to deposit capital in foreign bank accounts or to effect or receive pay- ments through such an account. (3) An ordinance governing payments to and from another country, which came into force on the same date, listed ex- ceptions to these provisions. (4) An amendment of the Sveriges Riksbank Act came into force. The reg- ulation that currency trading may be conducted only after a permit from the Riksbank, which had been part of the old Exchange Control Ordinance, was included in the Riksbank Act. The amendment made it possible for the Riksbank to grant permits to all credit institutions and the Sweden Post to con- duct currency trading with the general public. Pre- viously only commercial banks, savings banks, and the Sweden Post were granted such permits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of under- lying demand and supply conditions in the ex- change markets. However, the Swiss National Bank reserves the right to intervene if and when circum- stances warrant. The principal intervention cur- rency is the U.S. dollar; on December 28, 1990, the midpoint market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U.S. dollar was Sw F 1.2965 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign bank notes are negotiated freely in Switzer- land at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate foreign exchange contracts with banks in all currencies, in respect of both commer- cial and financial transactions. No officially fixed premia and discount rates apply to forward ex- change contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Under the Export Risk Guarantee Sys- tem, export receipts, excluding exchange rate risks, may be insured by the Government under certain conditions. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of importation and exportation, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of monetary policy measures, natural persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as resi- dents, as are juridical persons, including banks. However, this rule does not apply to the acquisition of Swiss real estate. Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country for purposes of banking supervision. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council, acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy, the Federal Department of Foreign Affa irs, or the Federal De- partment of Finance. The Swiss National Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of cur- Switzerland has applied for membership in the International Monetary Fund. rency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Capi- tal export transactions of financial institutions, how- ever, are subject to approval by the Swiss National Bank (see section on Capital). Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of alcohol is subject to state monopoly. The most important com- modities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products, petroleum products, and washing preparations and their com- pounds. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are es- tablished for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The exportation of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation (including re-exportation) of some goods, including weapons and scraps, is sub- ject to control through individual licenses. This export-licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate semiofficial or private or- ganizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are' freely disposable. The importation of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Capital Transfers of capital may be made without for- mality, except that foreign bond issues in Switzer- land and direct participations or subparticipations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues, when amount- ing to or exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 479 maturity of 12 months or more, require permission from the Swiss National Bank. In practice, this re- quirement is administered very liberally. A stamp tax is payable on issues and transactions securities. Subsidiaries and branches of foreign institutions are allowed, in principle, to participate in syndicated Swiss franc issue transactions. For bank credits (ex- ceeding Sw F 10 million and with a maturity of longer than 12 months), the Swiss National Bank grants a general permit. Each generally authorized capital export transaction must be reported to the Swiss National Bank. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. A select number of banks and finance companies are required to report their positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton in which the property is situated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the Confederation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs duty. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and ex- ports of certain articles containing gold. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. A multiple exchange rate system is maintained. The official rate of LS 11.20/11.25 = US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to most export transactions, some foreign exchange brought in by travelers, loans, grants, and other budgetary receipts; and, on the payments side, to most public sector imports, public sector invisible payments (except travel and medical expenditures), and capital transactions. The promotion rate of LS 20.00/22.00 - US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to private remittances, most travel and tourism transactions, transfers of Syrian government em- ployees working abroad, some export proceeds, and purchases of airline tickets by nonresidents; and, on the payments side, to travel allowances, tourism and medical expenses, and transfers abroad by airline companies. In addition, a portion of the proceeds from exports of fruits, vegetables, and a number of items previously surrendered at the promotion rate is subject to the "rate in neigh- boring countries," as determined by the Central Bank; on the payments side, this rate applies to payments by the public sector approved by the Higher Committee for Foreign Exchange. Another official rate, "rate to promote exports," determined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade and the Central Bank, applies to public sector export proceeds authorized by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade and to public sector imports ap- proved by the Higher Committee on Foreign Exchange. On December 31, 1990, the official buying and selling rates were LS 11.20 and LS 11.25, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling ra tes for all other ma jor currencies are quoted on the basis of the official and promotion rates for the U.S. dollar in relation to the rates for the currencies con- cerned in markets abroad.1 There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange risk op- erating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Ex- change Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions, by the Ex- change Office. Only authorized commercial banks may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection with- out prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Prescription of currency re- quirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Sri Lanka, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam, of which the first and the third agree- ments are operative. Private sector exporters to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments arrangements are re- quired to ship 20 percent of their exports to coun- tries conducting foreign trade in convertible curren- cies and may use the proceeds from these exports to finance imports of raw materials needed for produc- tion or may surrender their proceeds at the rate in neighboring countries. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited without prior approval 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 481 to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the ac- count holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Residents wishing to open foreign cur- rency accounts are required to present written evi- dence that they have sources of income abroad. Nonresidents (individuals and corporations) may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at authorized local banks for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restriction, or used to pay for specified imports. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplomatic and United Nations (UN) missions and their staffs. Diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs must exchange 50 percent of their transfers to Syria at the official rate, and may keep the remain- ing 50 percent on deposit in foreign exchange or convert it at the promotion rate. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad are also permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Many basic com- modities (including paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state-trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Agencies having the sole authority to import may be required to import certain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. In 1987-90, the list of permitted goods that can be imported by the private sector was enlarged to include certain agricultural goods, industrial goods, and raw materials. Private importers pay advance import deposits and customs on the basis of the official exchange rate. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited, with certain exceptions. In principle, imports must come direct from the country of origin, without the intervention of any foreign firm; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Imports from the Syrian free zone are al- lowed for certain industrial goods and for goods with a free zone value added of at least 40 percent. All imports, except those valued at less than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon), require licenses, which must be obtained by the importer before the date of shipment of the goods. Opera- tions of the state-trading agencies are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. Drawing from the budget, these agencies submit documentation of their import requirements to the Ministry of Economy, and automatically receive import li- censes. Certain imports (not appearing on the list of prohibited imports) from Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accor- dance with the Arab Common Market Agreement. In such cases an authorization to import is granted in response to a written request. Payments for imports by the Government and public sector enterprises are effected mainly at the official market rate. In principle, private sector im- porters are authorized to import products specified on the permitted list by opening letters of credit at the Commercial Bank of Syria. In practice, because foreign exchange is not made available, private sec- tor imports must be financed with importers' own resources. There are currently four avenues avail- able to private sector importers: (1) external credit arrangements, including suppliers' credits of 180 days' maturity, and third-party financing; (2) use of foreign currency deposits maintained in Syria by nonresidents; (3) use of importers' own foreign ex- change deposits maintained abroad; and (4) use of foreign exchange deposited in the Commercial Bank of Syria under the export proceeds retention regulations. Import deposits are waived for some categories of agricultural and industrial equipment, raw mate- rials, and spare parts for both public and private importers. For other public imports, a 100 percent advance deposit requirement, valued at the official rate, is, in principle, required. However, this re- quirement has been suspended in practice, as the Higher Committee for Foreign Exchange has ap- proved access to foreign exchange. In practice, pub- lic sector importers must make an advance deposit at the rate of 15 percent when opening letters of credit with the commercial banks and pay the bal- ance when receiving the documents. A non- interest-bearing advance import deposit of up to 50 percent of the import value is required for private sector imports financed through foreign credit facil- ities; the official exchange rate is used in the conver- sion. Other private imports are subject to a 100 per- cent advance import deposit requirement in foreign exchange. A fee ranging from LS 25 to LS 200 is charged on import license issuance. An import surcharge (called a "license fee") of 2 percent is charged on all imports except those by the Government, and im- ports of certain essential items, including raw ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC materials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addition, a unified import surcharge has replaced all the previous special levies on imports (a statisti- cal tax, a municipal consumption tax, a defense tax, a school tax, and a maritime transport and port tax). Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the promotion rate, while trade-related transactions of the public sector are made at the official exchange rate. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange, with a limit of US$1,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Of this limit, up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 a trip may be purchased at the promotion rate for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Lebanon) and up to the equivalent of LS 7,500 a trip for travel to non- Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for foreign exchange travel allowance but may take with them up to LS 2,000 a trip in Syrian bank notes. With this exception, Syrian bank notes may not be taken out of the country. For children 10 years old or younger, the allowances are 50 percent of these amounts. Workers on second- ment to a foreign country may take with them for- eign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above- mentioned allocations and the entire amount of the allocations on production of proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 percent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 400 a person if traveling to Arab countries, and LS 1,100 a person to other destinations. Fixed allocations are maintained for other transac- tions in invisibles, as follows: a maximum of 60 per- cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic, and 50 percent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic. All other transactions require the prior approval of the Exchange Office Committee, with the exception of embassies and international organizations, which may convert up to 50 percent of transfers at the promotion rate, and the remain- ing 50 percent at the official exchange rate. Nonresi- dents leaving the country are not allowed to recon- vert Syrian currency into foreign exchange. The allowance for education abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Higher Education. The transfer of funds abroad for family maintenance is limited to LS 250 a transfer and is effected upon presentation of proof. The allowance for medical treat- ment must be authorized by the Ministry of Health. Remittances of profits from investment must be au- thorized by the Exchange Office upon presentation of supporting documents (e.g., balance sheet, certificate confirming payment of income tax). Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of petroleum are han- dled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for gov- ernment agencies, state-trading agencies, or spec- ified companies. Exports of a few goods to all coun- tries and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports under bilateral payments agreements and of all goods of foreign origin re- quire licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation commitment is required, by which the exporter un- dertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within three months of the date of export shipment to Arab countries and within four months of the date of export shipment to other countries. The proceeds of exports retained by pri- vate exporters may be used to import goods on a list issued by the Ministry of Economy. Public sector enterprises may retain 100 percent of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts at the Commercial Bank of Syria and use the proceeds to import goods on the permitted list, subject to prior approval, or they may sell the pro- ceeds at the official exchange rate to the Commercial Bank of Syria. Public sector exporters, with the au- thorization of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, are permitted to sell foreign exchange to the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate to promote exports as applied in 1990 (LS 40 = US$1). The rate in neighboring countries is applied to exports of cotton and cotton seeds, entrails, and leather, and to 25 percent of proceeds from exports of certain agricultural commodities. Private sector exporters are allowed to convert 25 percent of foreign ex- change earnings at the rate in neighboring coun- tries. Public sector importers, with the approval of the Higher Committee on Foreign Exchange, may purchase foreign exchange from the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate of LS 2 per US$1 above the Bank's buying rate. Exporters of specified products in the private sector may retain up to 75 percent of export proceeds to finance imports on a permitted list, even if the products to be imported are not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 483 directly related to their exporting activity; imports may be undertaken on behalf of public sector en- tities and some other private sector activities. Ex- cept for a number of products, the proceeds from which must be surrendered at the rate in neighbor- ing countries, the remaining 75 percent can be de- posited at the Commercial Bank of Syria in specially earmarked export exchange accounts until import payments are made or foreign exchange is volun- tarily sold to the Commercial Bank of Syria. In the case of fruits and vegetables, public and private sector exporters may convert 100 percent of the pro- ceeds at the rate in neighboring countries. Private sector exporters to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements are required to ship 20 percent of their exports to countries conducting foreign trade in convertible currencies and may use their export proceeds in convertible currencies to import raw materials and spare parts for their own produc- tion activity. The retained export proceeds may be deposited in a special export exchange account de- nominated in foreign currency with the Commer- cial Bank of Syria, or may be surrendered at the rate in neighboring countries. The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products by residents and nonresidents without referring to the Central Bank of Syria. Exports of ginned cotton receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. A tax ranging from 9 to 12 percent ad valorem is charged on the value of exports of agricultural origin except for cotton. There is also a surtax (school tax) of 1 percent. However, exports of fru i ts and vegeta- bles have been exempted from the export tax in 1989, 1990, and 1991. The export tax on cotton is 12.5 percent of the value of the exports ( f .o .b .) less the cost of transportation within Syria. Exports of fruits, vegetables, and vegetable oil are subject to an export tax of 8 percent ad valorem. Exports of other agricultural products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 7 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be sold at the official market rate, but those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the promotion rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in un- limited foreign exchange in any form, subject to declaration upon entry. Residents and nonresidents may freely bring in foreign bank notes and Syrian bank notes. All Syrian nationals employed by Arab, foreign, or international organizations inside the Syrian Arab Republic and paid in full or in part in foreign currencies are required to exchange all such earnings at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the official exchange rate. With few exceptions, non-Syrian visitors to the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. Upon entering the country, all such visitors, other than nationals of Arab coun- tries, are each required to convert a minimum of US$100 into local currency at the official exchange rate. All Syrian government employees working abroad and covered by the Security and Pension Act and the Social Security Act are required to repatriate and convert, at the rate in neighboring countries, a minimum of 25 percent of each year's pay and al- lowances received in foreign exchange. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by the public sector take place at the official rate, while transactions by the private sector are determined by the Exchange Office of the Central Bank on a case- by-case basis. Transfers of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or non- residents. The exportation of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most bor- rowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab states in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Incentives for foreign investment in joint ventures in tourism include a seven-year exemption from all taxes and municipal charges; exemption from income tax on 50 percent of profits; exemptions from customs duties and other taxes on imports of raw materials, tools, vehicles, and other equipment; permission to import inputs needed for repairs up to a value of 3 percent of the previous year's turn- over; and authorization to open foreign currency accounts. Incentives to promote foreign investment in joint ventures in agriculture and agro-industries include a seven-year exemption from all taxes (in- cluding income tax) beginning from the first finan- cial year in which profits are declared and exemp- tions from import and foreign exchange restrictions. Foreign companies may transfer profits abroad, but not capital except in cases where the investments are in accordance with presidential decrees. Immi- grants and Arab nationals may transfer abroad up to 50 percent a year of their profits. In the case of mixed enterprises, which are exempt from import duties and profit taxes for five to seven years after realizing profits, the foreign participants may transfer abroad both profits and capital. The Syrian Arab Republic has signed investment guarantee agreements with France, Germany, Switzerland, and the United ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC States. Nonresidents and foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals may acquire immov- able property in the Syrian Arab Republic only after presenting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property at an authorized local bank. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell manufac- tured gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without re- striction. Domestic transactions in manufactured gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are sub- ject to export licensing. Proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Exports of gold pre- viously imported by nonresidents out of their re- sources abroad are subject to a repatriation commit- ment covering the cost of manufacturing and the profit earned. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement July 7. The exchange rate applicable to 25 percent of proceeds from certain exports was changed from the official rate to the promotion rate. Imports and Import Payments February 4. Coffee and sugar were added to the list of goods that may be imported by the private sector. March 22. Rice and tea were added to the list of goods that may be imported by the private sector. Payments for Invisibles August 25. It was announced that, with effect from January 1,1991, education allowances for uni- versity students abroad would be granted at the rate in neighboring countries. Exports and Export Proceeds July 10. Private sector exporters were allowed to convert 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings at the rate in neighboring countries; previously, they were surrendered at the promotion rate. July 15. Exporters of agricultural goods, hor- ticultural products, eggs, chickens, and dairy and food products were allowed to convert 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings at the rate in neighbor- ing countries. August 21. Exporters of entrails were allowed to convert foreign exchange earnings at the rate in neighboring countries. December 17. Exporters of leather were allowed to convert foreign exchange earnings at the rate in neighboring countries. Proceeds from Invisibles June 3. The regulations governing the repatria- tion of wages of Syrian government employees working abroad and covered by the Security and Pension Act and the Social Security Act were mod- ified, whereby a minimum of 25 percent of pay and allowances in foreign exchange that they are required to repatriate would be subject to the rate in neighboring countries instead of to the promo- tion rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of the currencies of Tanzania's main trading partners. The Bank of Tan- zania quotes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1990, the Bank of Tanzania's buying and selling rates for the shilling in terms of the U.S. dollar were T Sh 195.6 and T Sh 197.6, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Tanzania applies a spread of 0.5 percent between the buying and sell- ing rates. It does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. However, authorized dealers may, at their discretion, enter into forward contracts of purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers on account of export and import transactions. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Bank of Tan- zania. In principle, authority for making payments abroad should be delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks —the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. In practice, virtually all outward payments have to be approved by the Bank of Tanzania; control over ex- change operations in Zanzibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania, and export control, by the Exports Controller in the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The Bank of Tan- zania acts as the registrar of exporters. The respon- sibility for issuing specific import and export li- 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Comorian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Netherlands guilders, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Lesotho mal- oti, Malawian kwacha, Mozambique meticais, Mauritian rupees, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Somali shillings, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, Zambian kwacha, and Zim- babwe dollars. censes rests with the Controllers, to whom applica- tions must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before import orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and the princi- pal exports are effected by the state-trading agen- cies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and nonresidents must be made either in convertible currencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a Convertible Nonresident Account or Loro Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts maintained by foreign nationals tem- porarily resident in Tanzania; by firms, companies, or other organizations registered or incorporated outside Tanzania; and by foreign diplomatic mis- sions, the United Nations, or other international organizations and their officials in Tanzania are des- ignated as Nonresident Accounts. These are di- vided into two broad categories: convertible and nonconvertible. Balances on convertible accounts are eligible for transfer from Tanzania without any further scrutiny of, or approval by, the Bank of Tan- zania. Balances on nonconvertible accounts may be transferred from Tanzania after approval is ob- tained from the Bank of Tanzania. There are six subcategories of Nonresident Accounts—namely, External, Shipping/Airline, Special, Ordinary, Ex- patriate, and Unspecified. Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals normally resident in Tanzania who have gone abroad for vacation, employment, or other purposes may maintain both Special and Ordinary Accounts in the form of a current, sav- ings, or deposit account, according to the option of the account holders. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Cer- tain imports into the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. All goods valued at the equivalent of, or more than, 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 TANZANIA T Sh 10,000 require a license before they can be imported into the country. Under the Own Foreign Exchange Import Scheme, import licenses are is- sued on request for importation of a specified list of commodities. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, and the tariff schedule is ad valorem. Most items, particularly intermediate and capital goods, are subject to a minimum rate of 30 percent. The maximum rate on most consumer goods is 60 per- cent. Statutory exemptions are the diplomatic corps; religious, educational, and welfare institutions; air- craft engines; aviation fuel; scientific, educational, and religious films; printed matter; cable and tele- phone material; sewing machines; and timber for use by mining companies. Discretionary full or par- tial exemptions are allowed by the Minister of Fi- nance if imports are considered to be in the public interest. Unless specifically exempted by the Bank of Tan- zania, individual consignments of imports amount- ing to T Sh 250,000 or more are subject to com- pulsory preshipment inspection by international agencies for quantity, quality, and price; part ship- ment against a pro forma invoice of T Sh 250,000 or more is also subject to preshipment inspection irre- spective of the value of each shipment. All mer- chandise imports onto the mainland must be in- sured with the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tanzania shillings. All imports into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 per- cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. (This tax is also payable on sales of domestic products.) Since February 1988, the Government has made a portion of foreign exchange available on a nonad- ministrative basis for a selected positive list of prior- ity import categories through an Open General Li- censing (OGL) system. Under the OGL system, the minimum value for each import license is set at US$5,000. The OGL import license is valid for four months, and advance cash deposits are required in accordance with the normal commercial banking procedure. Effective January 1, 1991, a negative list system has been applied to products that are not allowed to be imported under the OGL system. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are con- trolled and require the approval of the Bank of Tan- zania. Noncitizens working in Tanzania under con- tract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually may re- mit abroad, throughout their period of employ- ment, up to one third of their salary to cover family maintenance, savings, and so on. Applications to remit more than one third of salary, or in excess of T Sh 6,000 a month, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are not granted, and family remittances by resi- dents to relatives abroad are not allowed. A traveler is allowed to take out up to T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out for- eign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit for any amount remaining out of the foreign exchange they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of some products are handled by state-trading organizations, and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports for sale cannot be effected without an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be repatriated in convertible currencies within two months of the date of exportation. However, on ap- plication to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank upon their collection, with the following exceptions: (1) exporters of nontraditional products may retain up to 35 percent of their foreign exchange earnings and may import goods on the list that are permitted to be financed by "own foreign exchange" for sale in the local market; and (2) ex- porters involved in a production activity must use all of their retained foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and spare parts essential to their pro- duction activities. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized bank upon collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a re- turning traveler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins exported on departure, up to T Sh 100. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 487 all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania perma- nently for settlement abroad will not as a rule be granted foreign exchange facilities. When, however, any person is unable to maintain himself and his dependents and has no ostensible means of liveli- hood in Tanzania, limited foreign exchange facilities may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania purely on compassionate grounds. Gifts to nonresidents re- quire the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of for- eign funds in Tanzania but, to ensure eventual re- patriation, the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania, and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign In- vestment (Protection) Act, 1963 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from resi- dents, provided that payment is received in foreign exchange. The income from such securities is remit- table, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies re- quire approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form, other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler, are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments February 1. The maximum annual limit on imports per importer under the OGL was abolished. July 1. The maximum tariff rate on consumer goods was reduced to 60 percent from 100 percent. January 1, 1991. The negative list of items that could not be imported under the OGL system re- placed a positive list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trading partners and other considerations. The Exchange Equaliza- tion Fund announces daily the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily minimum buying and maximum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in Brunei dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen, Malaysian ring- git, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 28, 1990, the middle official rate was B 25.265 = US$1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange markets operate between com- mercial banks and customers and among the com- mercial banks. All forward transactions have to be related to underlying trade and financial transac- tions. The open foreign exchange positions of com- mercial banks are restricted by the Bank of Thai- land. The forward premium in the baht/U.S. dollar rate is freely determined and usually reflects inter- est differentials between the two currencies. Thailand formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 4, 1990. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized banks (commercial banks) and autho- rized persons (money changers). All incoming re- ceipts must be surrendered to an authorized agent (authorized banks and authorized companies). All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current payments) by commercial banks, or for certain service payments, unrequited trans- fers, and capital account transactions above certain limits, by the Bank of Thailand. Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Import and export licenses are issued by the Minis- try of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with for- eign countries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open and maintain nonresi- dent accounts in foreign currencies, which are des- ignated as foreign currency accounts with commer- cial banks in Thailand. No restrictions are placed on the opening of a foreign currency account as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on such ac- counts may be transferred without formality or re- striction. A commercial bank may pay interest on such deposits at competitive rates. There are two types of nonresident accounts in baht, which are designated as nonresident baht ac- counts, namely, Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Inward and outward transfers from each account of up to B 5 million a day can be authorized by commercial banks; larger amounts must be ap- proved by the Bank of Thailand. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for certain imports. Some imported goods are prohibited for protective and other reasons. Imports from South Africa are subject to licensing. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, skimmed milk, soybean meal, and silk yarn are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Certain goods are subject to temporary import surcharges or subsidies. Payments for imports may be approved by autho- rized banks upon submission of documents. Im- porters must obtain, in addition to the usual docu- ments, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 100,000 in value can be cleared through customs, except for certain goods such as military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, donated goods, and samples of goods that are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires approval from the Bank of Thailand. 488 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Exports and Export Proceeds THAILAND 489 There are no restrictions on payments and trans- fers for current international transactions. Certain payments for services may be freely authorized by a commercial bank. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign ex- change; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. Commercial banks are also authorized to sell foreign currencies for the following purposes up to specified limits: (1) for remittance of profits and dividends on all bona fide investments, af ter settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Thai- land, up to US$50,000 a transaction; (2) for family maintenance allowances of foreigners working in Thailand and of Thai families on pilgrimage to Mecca, up to US$50,000 a person a year; (3) for educational expenses, up to US$50,000 a year; (4) for other services or payments, against support- ing documents, up to US$50,000 a transaction; (5) for other payments, without supporting evi- dence, up to US$500 a transaction; (6) for remit- tances of funds to families and relatives living abroad, up to US$100,000 a person a year; and (7) for remittances to Thai emigrants with perma- nent residence permits abroad with emigrants' per- sonal funds, up to US$1 million a person a year. Amounts exceeding the above amounts are granted with the approval of the Bank of Thailand upon verification. Authorized money changers are al- lowed to sell foreign currency up to a limit of US$1,000 a person. A person may take out domestic currency not exceeding B 10,000, except for a traveler to the Lao People's Democratic Republic, who is allowed the maximum amount of B 100,000. Commercial banks may approve exchange allowances for residents, not exceeding the equivalent of US$20,000 a trip (in- cluding credit cards), for all travel purposes. The maximum amount of domestic currency allowed to be sent abroad by mail is B 2,500. Foreign currency may be resold to a person in transit, provided that the record of foreign currency sold to an authorized agent is shown and that the purchase is not greater than the amount previously sold. Foreign tourists may exchange foreign currencies for other foreign means of payment or for other currencies not ex- ceeding US$3,000 at commercial banks. In addition, foreign tourists may take out foreign bank notes or coins up to a value of US$10,000. Amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out, provided that they have been declared in writing to the customs officer at the time of entry. All exports to South Africa are subject to licens- ing. Certain categories of exports are subject to li- censing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination.1 All other commodities may be exported freely, ex- cept to South Africa. Settlement for exports of silver exceeding US$5,000 in value must be made through irrevocable letters of credit. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an au- thorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs when the value of exports exceeds B 100,000. Export proceeds must be collected and sold to an authorized agent within 7 days of receipt; they must be surrendered within 15 days of the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, 15 days after the due date of a usance bill, or 15 days for other methods of payment, but in any case, not later than 180 days af ter the date of export. Foreign tour- ists may freely take out precious stones and gold or platinum ornaments or other articles up to any value. The exportation of sugar is subject to export levies referred to as export premiums. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized agent. Authorized persons are allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coins or traveler's checks payable in for- eign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks within seven days. Persons enter- ing Thailand may bring in domestic currency not exceeding B 10,000 without a permit, except for a traveler coming from the Lao People's Democratic Republic, who may bring in up to B 100,000. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coins. Capital Equity capital investments in Thailand by non- residents may be made freely. Foreign equity par- ticipation or joint ventures are freely permitted. For- eign investors can hold up to 100 percent of the equity of a firm that exports all of its output. Certain economic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. Foreign investments in Thailand, which are entitled to privileges under the Investment Promotion Act 1 These include certain types of cement, gold, platinum, pre- cious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, coffee, sorghum, corn, all types of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. Textile exports to certain markets are also subject to licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 THAILAND (B.E. 2520) from the Board of Investment, are ac- corded various incentives and special benefits. Borrowing in foreign currency from nonresidents is unrestricted. The borrower may register the loan with the Bank of Thailand to facilitate approval for outward remittances. External borrowing by the public sector must be approved by the Foreign Debt Committee. Foreign exchange from inward capital invest- ments or loans must be surrendered to an autho- rized agent within seven days of the date of receipt, and the purpose of the transfer must be declared. Repatriation of investment funds as well as repay- ment of unregistered loans and interest payments thereon, net of all taxes, including proceeds from sales of securities or funds from liquidation, may be authorized by commercial banks for an amount not exceeding US$500,000 a transaction. Amounts in excess of this limit require authorization from the Bank of Thailand. Capital investments and the purchase of immov- able assets abroad by Thai nationals require prior approval from the Bank of Thailand. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Pur- chases or sales of gold on commodity futures ex- changes are prohibited. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to the following arrangements: commercial imports of gold are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance; foreign tourists may take out gold ornaments up to any value; exports of gold bullion are prohibited; and traders' exports of gold ornaments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a cer- tificate of exportation for presentation to customs but are free of export duty or taxes. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement May 4. Thailand formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund's Arti- cles of Agreement. Nonresident Accounts May 22. The maximum amount allowed to be transferred to each nonresident baht account was increased to B 5 million a day. Imports and Import Payments January 9. (I) The import duty on acetic anhydride was reduced to 10 percent from 20 per- cent, and the duty on machines and apparatus for electroplating, electrolysis or delectrophoresis was reduced to 20 percent from 40 percent; and (2) pay- ments for imports of certain raw materials or parts used for production of integrated circuits in man- ufacturing, mixing, or assembling were exempted from the business tax. February 8. The import duty on maize, fish meal, and soybean meal was reduced to 6 percent, and a tax rebate was granted to raw materials imported for production of canned meat products for exports. March 20. Imports of ploughing machines were permitted. March 21. Import controls on fish meal (with a protein content of more than 60 percent) and soy- bean meal were abolished. March 30. (1) Imports of cement clinkers for pro- duction of cement powder were permitted; and (2) imported cement was exempted from the excise tax. April 17-May 15. Import duties on preparations based on silica used in dentistry and jewelry were reduced to 10 percent from 35 percent and 5 per- cent, and those on chocolate and other food prepa- rations were reduced to 30 percent from 60 percent. July 6. Import duties on raw materials used in manufacturing, mixing, or assembling in bonded warehouses were exempted. July 17. Import surcharges on imports of animal feed inputs, such as soybean meal and ground fish, were reduced to 2,403 and 1,472 baht a metric ton from 2,971 and 1,975 baht a metric ton, respectively. July 31. (I) Imports of new CBU cars, with engine capacity of less than 2,300 c.c., and of used cars needed in construction (i.e., concrete pumping cars and cranes) were permitted, and the restriction on car models not exceeding the 42 series was eliminated. September 19. The import duty rates on machinery and equipment used in manufacturing activities, principally those covered under Sectors 84 and 85 of the Customs Code, were reduced to 5 percent from 20 percent, and the exemptions from duty on these products previously granted by the Board of Invest- ment were abolished. September 25. Imports of fertilizer and pesticide were permitted freely, with no customs tariffs. October 9. The ban on cigarette imports was lifted. October 15. The regulations on gold imports were fur ther liberalized. October 30. The import duty on coal was reduced to 10 percent from 25 percent. November 6. Imports of pesticides and urea prod- uct used for fertilizers were exempted from import duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 491 December 13. Import controls on food items made of sugar, pastry crispbread, cakes, fruit juices and vegetable juices, and unfermented and non- alcoholic contents were abolished. Payments for Invisibles May 22. The maximum limit on foreign exchange that commercial banks are allowed to provide with- out verification by the Bank of Thailand were in- creased, as follows: (1) expenses for all travel, to US$20,000 from the equivalent of US$9,000; (2) re- mittance by foreigners working in Thailand and travel expenses to Mecca, to the equivalent of US$50,000 from US$5,000 a year; (3) other remit- tances in foreign exchange, which commercial banks were not previously authorized to provide, upon application (e.g., profits and dividends earned on unregistered foreign capital), up to the equivalent of US$50,000 a transaction; (4) remit- tance by Thai nationals to relatives who are residing abroad permanently, up to the equivalent of US$100,000 a person a year. Exports and Export Proceeds January 5. The Department of Foreign Trade an- nounced a 1:0.7 bonus quota ratio (0.7 metric ton of extra tapioca quota to the EC for each metric ton shipped to non-EC countries) for two lots of tapioca product of 300,000 metric tons and a lot of 500,000 metric tons. January 16. The Ministry of Commerce was autho- rized to purchase one million metric tons of milled rice from rice exporters during the period Decem- ber 1989-December 1990. April 17. The business tax was reduced to 1 per- cent from 4 percent on earnings from exports of tin metal or tin ores during June 3-4, 1991. June 17. Exports of ball bearings with a diameter of up to 30 mm. to the EC were subject to an export surcharge of B 1.76 a unit. September 25. Exports of all agricultural products were exempted from the business and municipal taxes. November 13. The following measures to promote exports of tapioca to non-EC markets were intro- duced: (1) A bonus quota would be awarded to exporters who had exported to non-EC markets be- fore November 13, 1990. The non-EC export targets were initially set at 390,000 metric tons, while the ratio between tapioca exports to the EC market and the non-EC market was fixed at 1:1; (2) beginning March 1, 1991, the non-EC export target would be increased by 500,000 metric tons, and the bonus ratio, to 1.2:1. November 15. A quota for tapioca exports to EC markets of not more than 5.75 million metric tons a year and 21 million metric tons within four years was established. A forward delivery of 240,000 met- ric tons against the 1991 quota was approved by the Ministry of Commerce. December 18. A quota for tapioca exports to the EC market for 1991 was set, as follows: (1) not less than 600,000 metric tons would be allocated through bid- ding; (2) not less than 50 percent of the total tapioca exports to the EC market would be distributed in accordance with an allocation rule for promoting the non-EC market; and (3) the rest would be allocated according to tapioca product stocks. Capital May 22. The maximum limits on transfers that commercial banks are authorized to approve with- out prior approval from the Bank of Thailand were increased, as follows: (1) remittances of funds by emigrants or inheritances of emigrants, up to the equivalent of US$1 million a person a year; and (2) repayment of loans that have not been regis- tered with the Bank of Thailand, proceeds from sales of securities, or funds from liquidation, up to the equivalent of US$500,000 a transaction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a pro- portional commission of 2.50 per mill and a fixed charge of F 100 a transaction on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Contracting of forward exchange cover requires the prior authori- zation of the Minister of Economy and Finance, and permission may be granted only in respect of the importation of certain clearly specified goods. The maturity of exchange contracts must be up to three months for goods deemed essential or strategic and one month for all other goods. There is no official currency swap scheme or guaranteed exchange rate for debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's ex- change controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Mo- naco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Senegal). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo; inward direct investment and all outward investment; and irThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the union are free of any commission. the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. A Foreign Exchange Legal Com- mission has been created to advise the Minister of Economy and Finance on requests to settle cases involving violations of foreign exchange regulations concerning amounts equal to or exceeding CFAF 500,000 and on express requests from viola- tors of foreign exchange regulations. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to col- lect, either directly through economic agents or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal and Telecommunications Office (Office des postes et telecommunications), and offices of government ministries, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. Forwarding and re- ceipt of bank notes through the mail by authorized intermediaries are subject to control by the BCEAO. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal and Telecommunications Office, or the BCEAO. Import and virtually all export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Licenses for the exportation of cereals and other food crops are issued by the Commission nationale d'attribution des licenses d'exportation, but within the quota and volume limits set by the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports, after being approved by the Council of Ministers. Exports of local manufactured products and imports of nearly all products are not subject to licensing. Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments involving The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through corre- spondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through For- eign Accounts in Francs. 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 493 Nonresident Accounts The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes is- sued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign corre- spondents of authorized banks, which may be cred- ited with BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign Accounts in Francs may also be debited, without authorization, with BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are pro- hibited. All other imports may be made freely, with the following exceptions: (1) imports of live or pro- cessed broilers and of frozen meat are prohibited; (2) the issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin, footwear other than lux- ury or sports footwear with an f .o .b. value of less than CFAF 3,000, and frozen chickens and chicken offals is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product (in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced in respect of printed piece goods); (3) imports of cement, concrete-reinforcing bars, and wheat flour are sub- ject to the prior issuance of import licenses by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation; (4) used cars, used tires, and used replacement parts may be imported only by dealers legally estab- lished in Togo who possess an authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation; and (5) imports of pharmaceutical products, explosives, and firearms are subject to special arrangements. The import monopoly of the Societe nationale de commerce for some consumer goods has been abol- ished. However, imports of some of these products (sugar, rice, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and ciga- rettes) are subject to special approval by the Minis- try of Commerce and Transportation. The following taxes are imposed on all imports: (1) a statistical tax of 3 percent; (2) a fiscal import duty of 5-35 percent; (3) a value-added tax of 5- 30 percent; and (4) a temporary surtax of 15 percent on imports of goods produced locally. All of these taxes are levied on the c . i . f. value. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, with the exception of imports not involving payment or financed through the Postal and Telecommunications Office and certain imports of a special nature. The foreign exchange for import payments may be purchased after establishing domiciliation accounts (dossiers de domiciliatiori) and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. Pur- chases of foreign exchange for down payment are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which may be granted only on the date such payment is due and only for up to 30 percent of each transaction involving capital goods and 10 percent for other transactions. All import operations exceeding CFAF 200,000 are con- ditional on merchandise insurance being taken out and domiciled with an approved insurance com- pany in Togo. Inspection of quality, quantity, and price of imports has been suspended. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted by a general authoriza- tion when the basic trade transaction has been ap- proved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also generally permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 re- maining after return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of return. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and nonresident travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries of the Operations Account Area. Resident travelers to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 TOGO other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident trav- elers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and traveler's checks drawn in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses only in certain cases. All exports to South Africa are pro- hibited. The Office togolais des phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phosphates, and the Office des produits agricoles du Togo has a monop- oly over the export of cocoa, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other agricultural com- modities. Exports of cereals are permitted, but li- censes are generally granted only in years when the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports determines that there is a food grain surplus. The Technical Committee meets twice a year —at the beginning of March to make forecasts of the exportable surplus, and by November 10 to establish the actual export ceilings. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, including the Operations Ac- count Area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date; authorized diamond purchasing of- fices, however, may retain foreign currency pro- ceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions, including those with the Operations Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 and the domiciling bank is responsible for ensuring effective repatria- tion of such receipts through the BCEAO. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts 3This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign cur- rency sold for CFA francs, and (2) any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign cur- rency traveler's checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of for- eign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and for- eign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries of the Operations Account Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries re- quire exchange control approval by the Minister of Economy and Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad; inward direct invest- ment and all outward investment; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement abroad. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are op- erations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or can be sub- stituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been autho- rized. With the exception of controls relating to for- eign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member coun- tries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Togo re- quire prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance,4 and at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed by foreign borrow- ing. Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 495 reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the pro- jects. Total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also re- quires prior reporting to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. The following are, however, ex- empt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior decla- ration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by in- dustrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to fi- nance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circum- stances, any other loans, provided that the out- standing amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enter- prises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. The Investment Code adopted on October 31, 1989 aims at promoting local employment and small- and medium-sized Togolese enterprises and at developing local resources. To obtain the tax ben- efits under this code, firms must provide from eq- uity equivalent to at least 25 percent of the amount net of taxes to finance new projects (excluding working capital), and must pay at least 60 percent of their wage bill to workers who are nationals of Togo. Tax benefits mainly include exemptions from mim- inum forfait tax and corporate income taxes for five years for small- and medium-sized enterprises, seven years for enterprises that process domestic raw materials, and three years for other enterprises. The code guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all invest- ment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. The importation and ex- portation of gold to or from any other country re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments January 1. A statistical tax of 5 percent, a value- added tax ranging from 5 percent to 30 percent, and a temporary surtax of 15 percent were levied on imports of goods produced locally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tonga is the Pa'anga, which is pegged to the Australian dollar at par. The National Reserve Bank of Tonga (central bank) maintains buying and selling rates for the Australian dollar, the intervention currency, of T$ 1 = $A 1.0010 and T$ 1 = $A 0.9990, respectively. The Bank of Tonga (commercial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 other currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Australian dollar. The spread between the Bank of Tonga's buying and selling rates is ap- proximately 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange are at a premium of approximately 1.5 percent, and purchases are at a discount of approximately 0.5 percent. On December 31, 1990, the exchange rate (midpoint) of the pa'anga for the U.S. dollar was T$ 1.2958 per US$1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Tonga formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from April 5, 1991. Administration of Control Tonga's trade and payments system is relatively free of controls. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the Bank of Tonga and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies to be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for motor vehi- cles, and import quotas are applied only to fresh eggs. The importation of certain items is restricted for cultural, health, safety, or environmental rea- sons. Tariffs, which apply to most private sector imports, are primarily for revenue purposes, and protective tariffs are levied on a few items, such as paint and wire fencing. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports, but coconut derivatives and bananas may be exported commercially only through the Tonga Commodities Board, which must also authorize the export of whole coconuts. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles The Bank of Tonga is authorized to provide for- eign exchange for invisible payments up to T$ 1,000 a year. The Ministry of Finance may approve re- quests for amounts exceeding T$ 1,000 a year upon submission of satisfactory documentary evidence that the underlying transaction is a bona fide cur- rent international transaction. Shipping and airline agencies may remit fares and freight earned in Tonga on production of copies of returns forwarded to their respective head offices. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment, which, so far, remains small. Foreign investors are required to apply for a license, with approval depending on the type of investment. Investors are permitted a wide range of activities, but those that complement domestic pro- duction rather than compete with it, are generally preferred. Under the Industrial Development In- centives Act, foreign investors involved in manufac- turing are allowed duty-free imports of capital in- puts, a five-year tax holiday, and repatriation of profits and capital. In principle, Tongan residents are not permitted to acquire financial assets abroad. Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trin- idad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$4.25 = US$1. On December 31,1990 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were TT$4.24468 and TT$4.28719, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. There is a limited forward exchange market, in which the Central Bank quotes forward selling rates for the major international currencies.2 The rates quoted to the commercial banks are for local trading, on a fixed future date, for one-, two-, or three-month periods. Forward transactions are permitted for approved trade transactions only. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting under delegated authority of the Ministry of Finance. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign currency,3 and for control over both cur- rent and capital transactions. Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Approval authority with re- spect to payments for visible imports has been dele- gated to the ministry responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism). This Minis- try also issues import and export licenses, where necessary. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local non- resident-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Commercial banks can purchase foreign currency notes from the public, and the Central Bank in turn buys certain of these currencies from the commer- 1 Barbados dollars, Belize dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 3Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. In certain cases, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of foreign currency receipts in a Foreign Currency Account (see section on Foreign Currency Accounts below). cial banks for repatriation to the respective mone- tary authorities under bilateral arrangements. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago does not repatriate Trinidad and Tobago currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U.S. dollars or in specified currencies.4 Authorized payments, in- cluding payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Ex- ternal Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These ac- counts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for pur- chases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts can be converted into U.S. dollars or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trin- idad and Tobago. Blocked Accounts are normally credited with the bal- ance of capital assets of persons who have emigrated from Trinidad and Tobago. The use of balances on Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities with the permission of the exchange control authorities. In- come arising from Blocked Accounts (such as interest and rents) is freely remittable, provided the tax lia- bilities are settled. Generally, funds held in Blocked Accounts are eligible for remittance to nonresidents on an annual basis. 4Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and pounds sterling. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in for- eign currency may be maintained at local banks by (1) designated exporters who have earned foreign exchange equivalent to at least 80 percent of their import requirements (20 percent of the export pro- ceeds are sold to the Central Bank through the com- mercial banks); (2) petroleum service companies who receive payments from the foreign currency accounts of the oil companies (these accounts may be used to purchase goods and services for the oil companies); and (3) selected tourism-related enter- prises. Holders of these accounts are required to submit periodically to the authorities statements of credits and debits to the account. Imports and Import Payments Annual foreign exchange sales for imports are guided by a foreign exchange budget for imports. Trade allocation certificates in 1989 and 1990, ex- pressed in domestic currency, were issued to each importer registered with the Central Bank. The cer- tificates stated the importer's annual allocation for each product group falling under the first two digits of the Customs Cooperative Council Nomenclature (CCCN) Tariff Code, and importers could select products under each tariff group, subject to licens- ing requirement where necessary. These certificates were used to purchase foreign exchange for imports during the year. In 1989 and 1990, in order to accom- modate the Central Bank's foreign exchange posi- tion, certificates were issued to all importers who were entitled to an annual allocation in excess of TT$1 million. For priority imports, all four quarterly certificates were made available to importers at the beginning of the year. For other imports, the first two quarterly certificates were made available to importers at the beginning of the year, and only the third quarter allocation was made available in the second half of the year in view of limited foreign exchange availability. For imports under capital projects, foreign exchange was allocated upon ap- proval of the relevant project by the Central Bank.5 Exempted from the trade allocation certificate system were imports from the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries6 (provided that im- ports met the rules of origin criteria of the CARICOM Treaty and payments were effected in the currency 5Effective January 1, 1991, the importation of all visible items no longer requires a trade allocation certificate. 6The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. of the CARICOM country), imports funded from For- eign Currency Accounts, and, effective Septem- ber 30, 1989, imports of 12 product groups, includ- ing most agricultural inputs, some raw materials for manufacturing industries, and capital goods and spare parts (the latter unless used in a project with a value in excess of TT$500,000, in which case prior exchange control approval would still be required). While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject to the provisions of a "negative list." Main product items that are included in the nega- tive list are certain food items, animal feed, cement, textiles, footwear, light fittings, electric appliances, paper products, plastic goods, tires, steel and other metal products, and completely assembled motor vehicles; imports of these products require a spe- cific license. Firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for se- curity and health reasons. Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are subject to state trading. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, and plants are subject to specific regula- tion, as are imports of mining materials. Licenses for imports of certain inputs for man- ufacturing industries are issued in conjunction with duty-free licenses granted to local concessionaire manufacturers. For these inputs, a specific license is not required for shipments of items on the negative list, or for items that originate from or are consigned by sources from which all goods are subject to an import license. When specific import licenses are required, they must be obtained from the ministry responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, Enter- prise, and Tourism) before orders are placed. Pay- ments for all imports require exchange control approval. Imports of certain food products are subject to the Agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Trade with South Africa is prohibited, and all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licensing, irre- spective of the negative list status of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The customs duty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 35 percent. The duty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing, and cotton and silk fabrics, range between 30 percent to 60 percent, and on motor ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 499 vehicles are 45 percent. Some foodstuffs, fertilizers, certain raw materials, and goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempted from customs du- ties. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted partial or total ex- emptions from the customs duty by the Minister of Industry and Enterprise on recommendation of the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC). Spec- ified imports from non-CARicoM countries are sub- ject to a 15 percent surcharge. Stamp duties are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports at the rate of 10 percent for capital goods and 20 percent for other goods; basic foodstuffs, medicines, books, news- print, and raw materials are exempted. Purchase taxes at rates ranging from 10 percent to 75 percent are levied on imported consumer goods. Certain domestically produced goods are also subject to the tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the spe- cific approval of the exchange control authorities. Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate docu- mentary evidence. Payments for current interna- tional transactions to South Africa are prohibited. Under authority delegated by the Central Bank, the authorized banks may approve applications for for- eign exchange within prescribed limits for certain transactions in invisibles. The basic allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of TT$2,500 a person a year (for a one-day trip TT$730); for business travel, TT$350 a day for a maximum of 30 days for one trip (for a one-day trip, TT$730); and for health care, TT$12,000 a year. Annual allowances for education abroad are the equivalent of TT$8,000 for secondary schools, TT$12,000 for universities, and TT$1,200 for correspondence courses. Allowances of TT$700 once every two years are granted for warm clothing. If additional amounts are needed, the specific ap- proval of the authorities is required. Remittances of gifts and donations require approval from the Cen- tral Bank. Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trin- idad and Tobago currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may obtain part of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes up to a maximum of TT$1,200. Nonresidents leaving Trin- idad and Tobago are allowed to reconvert Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes into foreign currency up to the equivalent of TT$1,200, upon showing evidence of having previously sold foreign currency to autho- rized dealers. Sums in excess of TT$1,200 require the approval of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods usually require an indi- vidual license. These include some foods tuffs, fire- arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permit- ted by open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the minis- try responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, En- terprise, and Tourism). Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In prac- tice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operat- ing in Trinidad and Tobago repatriates all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. The company must submit periodic documents of its exchange transactions to the authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in for- eign currencies must be surrendered. Residents and nonresidents may bring into Trinidad and To- bago currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Foreign currency notes may be brought in by both resident and nonresident travelers. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago re- quire approval and generally are restricted. How- ever, repayment of commercial credits is permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigration al- lowances are approved up to specified limits; fur- thermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are facilitated. Legacies may be repatriated in full. However, the Central Bank reserves the right to phase remittances up to a maximum of four years. Certain international in- stitutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. Securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars and held by nonresidents must be lodged with an authorized depository, 23 of which have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other in- vestments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. All foreign investment, whether in cash or in kind, is normally eligible for repatriation, provided it has been registered with the Central Bank. Hence, when funds are received for invest- ment, local banks should authenticate the receipt of such funds from External Accounts. In the event of an appreciation in the value of the asset concerned, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original investment will normally be phased over a period of time, depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to persons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control au- thorities, provided that the full proceeds of sale are received in foreign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official mar- ket rate of exchange or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested out- side Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Non- residents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the forma- tion and operation of companies in the country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Act in order to hold an interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must ob- tain approval for their project from the exchange control authorities in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive leg- islation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import- substitution industries. Since 1973 these policies have been effected within the framework of a CAR- ICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incen- tives. Certain concessions may be granted to enter- prises declared to be approved enterprises. Conces- sions include temporary relief from import duties and taxes and other privileges. These are outlined in the Invesment Policy document issued by the Industrial Development Corporation. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident individuals and firms and to non-resident-controlled local com- panies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. A commercial bank, as an authorized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open" asset or liability position in foreign exchange. Each com- mercial bank must maintain the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quantitative ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coins and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numis- matic purposes. Imports and exports of gold are controlled by the ministry responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism). Imports of gold jewelry are subject to an open general license, but imports of other forms of gold are subject to specific import licenses, which are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold in any form are subject to specific export licenses; licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the mon- etary authorities. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system during 1990. Effective January 1, 1991, trade allocation certificates were no longer required for the importation of any product. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar, whose exchange value is determined according to a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1990, the spot buying and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.16295 and D 0.16458, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.8326 and D 0.8409, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates of authorized banks are identical to those of the Central Bank. Forward rates are set and published daily by the Central Bank. For both cash and loan transactions, importers and exporters are permitted to obtain forward exchange cover from the authorized banks as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward cover may be established for a maximum of 12 months for imports and a maximum of 9 months for exports. Persons who provide ser- vices are eligible for exchange cover for a term of up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days from the date on which the claim originated. Currencies quoted forward are Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Swaps are per- mitted among foreign currency operators. Trading on 3-, 6-, and 12-month foreign currency options on French francs, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars is available to resident borrowers of foreign exchange under standard contracts. The Central Bank ex- tends exchange rate guarantees to certain officially guaranteed loans, with risk premiums based on domestic and international interest rates. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the autho- 1 Currencies quoted spot and at bank note rates are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). Luxembourg francs, Qatar riyals, and CFA francs are quoted at bank note rates only; Algerian dinars are quoted spot only. rized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Commerce Directorate of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in consultation with the Central Bank, for products that are subject to import or export prohibition or liberalization as well as for imports that are subject to quotas in accordance with the Government's overall program and its trade agreements with foreign countries. The Min- istry of Economy and Finance and the Central Bank issue import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign coun- tries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through Foreign Accounts. Settle- ments between Tunisia and Morocco, Algeria, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya may be effected through convertible accounts in the na- tional currencies concerned at the central banks. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Special Accounts in Foreign Currency or Convertible Dinars may be opened by (1) physical persons of Tunisian nationality changing their normal resi- dence to Tunisia from abroad, physical or juridical persons of Tunisian nationality entitled to the ex- change amnesty provided under Law No. 86/83 of September 1,1986, and any other physical or juridi- cal persons of Tunisian nationality for their assets legitimately acquired abroad; (2) physical persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; and (3) foreign juridical persons for their establish- ments located in Tunisia. No formalities are re- quired for the opening of these accounts by for- eigners; a declaration of holdings, however, is required for Tunisians. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or ser- vices from Tunisia, may be credited to these ac- counts. They may be debited for (1) foreign ex- change surrendered to the Central Bank; (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder to undertake foreign travel; (3) amounts credited to another Special Account in Foreign Currency or Convertible Dinars; and (4) any payments abroad (including those for the acquisition of movable or immovable tangible property, located abroad, of ownership rights abroad, or of foreign claims). 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 TUNISIA Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars and Convert- ible Currencies may be opened freely by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality. (Residents are also authorized to open similar accounts under special regulations.) These accounts may be credited freely with (1) receipts in convertible foreign currencies or the dinar proceeds from sales of convertible curren- cies to the Central Bank of Tunisia; bank notes must be declared to customs; (2) convertible foreign cur- rencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresi- dent; (3) foreign currency purchased from the Cen- tral Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars; (4) authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest on balances in these accounts and interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign ex- change deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (6) transfers from other Foreign Accounts; and (7) the proceeds from the cashing of checks, trav- eler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible cur- rencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other crediting requires prior authorization from the Central Bank, either direct or by delegation. These accounts may be deb- ited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia (irrespective of the country of residence of the payer); (2) transfers to other Foreign Accounts; (3) the purchase of any foreign currency from, or sales of any foreign exchange to, the Central Bank; and (4) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign cur- rency to the account holder, to any other nonresi- dent beneficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the account holder. Internal Nonresident Accounts are used by individ- uals of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars; these ac- counts may be opened freely, but balances may be used only in Tunisia. These accounts may be cred- ited with the nontransferable portion (usually 50 percent) of the income earned in Tunisia. Any residual balance may not be transferred abroad without authorization. Interest is paid at rates com- parable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Special Dinar Accounts can be freely opened by nonresident foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia approved by the Central Bank of Tunisia. Such enterprises are authorized to open, for each contract, a single special account in dinars for de- posit of the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars, the dinar equivalent of foreign currency drawn on a Foreign Account in Convertible Foreign Currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the Central Bank of Tunisia. Inter- est is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Suspense Accounts may be opened by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality. They may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes, be transferred abroad, or trans- ferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, Suspense Accounts may be deb- ited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, for purchases of Tunisian securities, sub- scriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio management expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Gov- ernment or public institutions, or payments of the expenses of managing securities deposited in a sus- pense file opened in the name of the account holder. They may also be debited for settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder or his family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a fam- ily. In addition, a Suspense Account holder travel- ing in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Physical persons of foreign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the offspring or parents of the resident account holder. Individuals or juridical per- sons of French or Italian nationality holding Sus- pense Accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian na- tionality or his spouse must be authorized by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 503 Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capi- tal Accounts for their nonresident customers. Sub- ject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemp- tion, of Tunisian securities; the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court (Cour de cassation), or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from another Capital Account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, Capital Accounts may be freely debited for the living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his family, up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more Capital Accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a Capital Account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tuni- sian securities; for the maintenance, repair, and in- surance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. Balances on Capital Accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign nationality, with the excep- tion of juridical persons governed by public law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be deb- ited to assist the account holder's parents and off- spring residing in Tunisia, at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay interest and cannot be overdrawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not ex- ceeding D 1,000 on December 31,1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferable abroad. Individuals and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding Capital Accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa and im- ports of some items from all sources are prohibited. A system of import controls is applied under which there are different procedures for different opera- tors (manufacturers, traders, and state monopolies) and special procedures for specified categories of transactions (e.g., export firms and imports without payment from official foreign exchange). Imports may be effected without restriction or are prohibited. The relevant regime is prescribed by Annex I of the Notice to Importers and Exporters, published in Official Gazette No. 75 of Novem- ber 27,1981, as amended subsequently. The impor- tation of liberalized products does not require prior authorization and is effected by an import certifi- cate, obtained upon presentation of a commercial contract, domiciled with an authorized intermedi- ary. The import certificate procedure may be used under certain conditions by industrial enterprises that export 15 percent or more of their output for imports of prohibited products. These include raw materials and semifinished products used in their production; enterprises exporting less than 15 per- cent of their output may also use this procedure for imports not exceeding the value of their exports. The import certificate procedure may also be used (1) by investment promoters of authorized or de- clared investments for normally prohibited imports of capital goods that are required for their projects, provided that they are indicated on the authoriza- tion, the declaration certificate, or the decision to grant benefits, or (2) by commercial representa- tives in Tunisia of the suppliers of these goods and by leasing companies. The importation of prohibited products requires an annual import authorization, an import license, or an import card issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance and endorsed by the Central Bank of Tunisia. An "annual import authorization" is available to economic transactors as defined in the Notice of Ministry of National Economy; approvals are not transferable between transactors. Each transactor must submit a detailed document, giving information on expected import requirements for the following year, on the actual consumption of imported inputs in the previous year, and on sales, production, employment, import prices, and the firm's financial position. Annual import authoriza- tions are given for a global limit, expressed in dinars; they are valid for one year with an automatic exten- sion of the portion unused on December 31 of that year for an additional one-year period. Importers may, in certain cases, make changes among the products specified in their import authorizations. During the year, they may also request additional imports by documenting the use of the amount allotted them. Import licenses are valid for six months. In some cases this period may be extended by the competent authorities according to import requirements. A subsection of the licensing system is in the form of "traders' quotas," applicable to certain commodity groups, with special emphasis on consumer dur- ables. Quotas are allocated on a "points system," ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 504 TUNISIA with the most important criteria relating to firm size (employment and turnover, the latter differentiat- ing between sales from imports and those from domestically produced goods). Geographical loca- tion, the degree of specialization, and the age of the firm are also considered in the allocation process. Certain imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment, paid from sources outside Tunisia, may be effected by enter- prises for their own use up to a value of D 100,000. To meet urgent needs for their exclusive use, im- porters in particular sectors of economic activity (mainly, cottage craft industry and agriculture) may obtain "importers' cards" to cover goods up to a limit of D 1,000 a year for each importer. State-trading organizations are the exclusive im- porters of about 25 percent of the total value of imports, and about 40 percent of these imports con- sist of energy products. Among the important public-trading agencies are the Commerce Office (for sugar, coffee, tea), the Office des cereales (grains), Ellouhoum (meat), and the Office national de Thuile (vegetable oil). In addition, certain food items, tobacco, and medical products are imported exclusively by other state agencies. The state- trading commissions meet periodically to decide on the appropriateness and timing of imports of spec- ified products. For items that are not on the free list, state-trading agencies are required to complete the same licensing formalities as those that apply to the private sector. Manufacturing industries producing exclusively for exportation and covered by Title 2 of Law No. 87- 51 may import freely any goods required for their production process, subject only to customs decla- ration. In specified cases, imports destined for do- mestic investment projects are eligible for full or partial exemption from import duty. Importers must receive a customs code number before they can obtain an import certificate, an im- port authorization, an import license, or an import card. All import documents involving payments must be handled by one or more authorized banks. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Cen- tral Bank or a delegated commercial bank for all payments that have received general or specific prior authorization. Resident importers are autho- rized to buy forward foreign currencies required for fu ture settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of twelve months, at rates estab- lished daily by the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the value- added tax and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. Payments for Invisibles In principle, all payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank, for which proper documentation is required. These transactions in- clude (1) various payments related to international trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commis- sions, and brokerage); and (2) payments for pro- cessing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, fines, and court expenses. The follow- ing transactions have been delegated to authorized intermediaries: (1) payment of interest and amor- tization arising from authorized contractual obliga- tions to nonresidents; (2) insurance premiums; (3) subscriptions; (4) dividends of firms quoted on the stock market or governed by one of the codes that promote investment in Tunisia, or for which exports represent at least 15 percent of turnover in the financial year in which the profits are dis- tributed, or in which at least 50 percent of the capital is held by residents; and (5) school fees and ex- penses. Approval is also given freely for remittance of dividends owed to nonresidents. In addition, exporters may debit their profes- sional accounts (dossiers professionnels) without prior authorization (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) up to fixed limits for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in interna- tional trade fairs, and for customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Export- ers, hotel owners, travel agencies, and other exter- nal service industries may freely debit their profes- sional accounts for expenses related to publicity abroad and, up to fixed limits, for certain other expenses. Resident enterprises producing for ex- port within the framework of Title 2 of Law No. 87- 51 may freely make payments abroad for their pro- duction activities, which are not subject to the re- strictions that apply to payments for invisibles. The convertible dinar amounts in exporting enterprises' business travel accounts and in the professional ac- counts of exporters and providers of services may be transferred without restriction up to a ceiling of D 40,000 depending upon the value of export sales. The amounts not used during a given year may be carried forward for the next two years as long as the total of such transfers does not exceed authorized ceilings in any one year. Institutions authorized to trade in cash and traveler's checks may open profes- sional accounts, which may be credited with 4 per- cent of the proceeds through transfers from autho- rized intermediaries and with the foreign exchange acquired from nonresident customers, and they may be debited up to D 2,000 a year to meet business travel expenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 505 The Central Bank may authorize a business travel allocation for industrialists and businessmen whose professional activity requires travel abroad and who are unable to open professional or business travel accounts under Law No. 87-51. The initial annual allocation for each beneficiary is determined by the Central Bank at the time of approval, taking into account the applicant's import turnover. Thereafter, the annual amount of the allocation is determined by the authorized intermediary with which the au- thorization is domiciled, using the same criteria. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 200 a person (D 100 for children under 10 years of age). The allocation may be accumulated for two consecutive years. The annual settlement allowance for students is the equivalent of D 500 for all countries; the monthly foreign exchange allowance for educational expenses abroad is the equivalent of D 400 for stu- dents in Canada and the United States, D 300 for those in Western European countries, and D 240 for those in other countries. A contractually employed foreign national or a salaried worker who is a na- tional of Tunisia and foreign experts employed by the public sector and technical assistants may trans- fer their monthly salaries abroad up to the limits specified in their contracts. Regardless of nationality, residents traveling abroad by air or sea, except to the countries of the Arab Maghreb Union, are subject to a travel tax of D 45 a trip. Nonresidents, diplomats, persons trav- eling under the Agence de cooperation technique, emigrant workers, a man or woman residing in Tunisia whose spouse resides abroad, children liv- ing in Tunisia one or both of whose parents reside abroad, students, pilgrims to Mecca, and those traveling for medical reasons are exempted from the tax. The exportation of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coins is prohibited. Unless central bank permission is obtained, the reconversion of domestic bank notes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per- cent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, with a maximum of D 100 if the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not exceed 24 hours, there is no limitation on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most exports are liberalized, but certain nonenergy exports (amounting to about 10 percent of the total in 1989) require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 10 days of the date payment is due. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. Under certain conditions, central bank approval is not required for the extension of export credits of up to 180 days. Resident exporters may sell forward, for a maximum term of 9 months (12 months for providers of services), foreign curren- cies representing the proceeds from their merchan- dise exports through authorized intermediaries. Any resident individual, Tunisian, or foreign le- gal entity with foreign exchange receipts deriving from professional activity may freely open a profes- sional account in convertible dinars and deposit therein 10 percent of any foreign exchange pro- ceeds; balances on such an account may be used without restriction. The same account may be used for 4 percent of domestic receipts in dinars from sales to resident industrial enterprises producing solely for exportation and to resident international trade firms. Authorized intermediaries may grant any surety or guarantee to resident exporters and providers of services according to standard interna- tional trade practices. Resident manufacturing in- dustries that produce exclusively for exportation and are approved under the terms of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may arrange to credit 4 percent of their repatriated convertible currency export proceeds to Business Travel Portfolios in Convertible Dinars. "Professional accounts" in foreign currency may be opened by exporters (excluding those in the chemi- cal or energy sectors) who export 15 percent or more of their output and may be credited with 20 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Balances in these accounts may be used to finance expenditures abroad, including imports of goods and services. Professional Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened with the Central Bank's authorization by resident individuals and legal entities with re- sources in foreign exchange. These accounts may be credited and debited in accordance with terms laid down by the Central Bank in the authorization to open such accounts. "Professional Accounts— Foreign Trade" in foreign exchange may be opened by resident international trade firms. These ac- counts are intended to cover the overheads and payments associated with international trade bro- kerage and foreign investment operations. Under the provisions of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 and Law No. 88-110, nonresident manufacturing enterprises and nonresident international trading companies (i.e., enterprises with at least 66 percent capital ownership by nonresidents and financed through the importation of convertible currencies) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 TUNISIA producing exclusively for exportation are exempt from the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons residing abroad and also all other income or pro- ceeds from invisibles received from foreign coun- tries. However, there are certain facilities associated with professional accounts and with professional accounts in foreign exchange for such proceeds or resources (see sections on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds and Special Accounts in Foreign Currency or Convertible Dinars—specifically, Professional Ac- counts in Convertible Dinars or in Foreign Exchange—above). Foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely; non- resident travelers wishing to re-export the equiv- alent of more than D 500 must make a currency declaration upon entry. The importation of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Foreign investment in Tunisia may, in accordance with the sector involved, obtain the benefits pro- vided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35); Law No. 85-108 of December 6, 1985, concerning incentives for financial and banking establishe- ments conducting business essentially with non- residents; Law No. 87-51 of August 2, 1987, estab- lishing the Industrial Investment Code; Law No. 8S-110 of August 18,1988, providing incentives for international trading companies; Law No. 88-18 of April 2, 1988, promulgating the Investment, Ag- ricultural, and Fisheries Code; Law No. 89-100 of November 17, 1989, establishing investment incen- tives in the services area; and Law No. 90-21 of March 19,1990, providing incentives for investment in tourism. These benefits include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatri- ate invested capital in foreign exchange and the net proceeds from its sale or liquidation, even if these exceed the initial foreign exchange investment, plus the income from its capital. The transfer of principal is subject to authorization. However, dividends, fees, and remunerations for founders' shares (net of taxes) distributed by companies listed on the stock exchange, companies governed by one of the laws concerning the promotion of investment in Tunisia, companies for which exports represent 15 percent or more of turnover, and companies in which 50 per- cent or more of the capital is held by residents may be freely transferred to nonresident stockholders by an authorized intermediary in accordance with Law No. 90-24. Furthermore, Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 and Law No. 88-110 provide for various special ben- efits for nonresident manufacturing enterprises and nonresident international trading companies, in- cluding an exemption from the repatriation require- ment in respect of export proceeds. Law No. 85-108 of December 6, 1985, concerning incentives for fi- nancial and banking establishments conducting business essentially with nonresidents, extended the field of activity of such institutions; and they are authorized to exchange cash and traveler's checks for their nonresident customers and to engage in banking and exchange operations with residents, in particular by providing foreign exchange financing for foreign trade operations, investing their own foreign exchange resources in equities of resident enterprises, and accepting funds from residents that can be used to finance productive activities in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are en- titled to transfer the following: 50 percent of their assets (with a minimum of D 1,750 and a maximum of D 3,500) for those who left Tunisia before Au- gust 20, 19702; D 4,000 for those who left between August 20,1970 and December 31,1973; D 5,000 for those who left between January 1,1974 and Decem- ber 31, 1974; D 10,000 for those who left after De- cember 31,1974; D 15,000 for those who left Tunisia after December 31, 1978, who are over 60 years of age, and are Tunisian nationals; and an unlimited amount for those of French nationality regardless of their date of departure from Tunisia. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank, except investment credits granted by resident banks to nonresident enterprises (Title 2 of Law No. 87-51) out of their external resources. Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation and exportation of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require joint authorization from the Central Bank and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of indus- trial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The exportation of gold is prohibited. 2Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total value of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 507 Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Law No. 89-115 came into effect. It exempts from customs duties those raw materials and articles that are used to produce medicine and for which Tunisian products cannot be substituted for five years. May 3. A list of capital goods that are not pro- duced in Tunisia and that would benefit from a reduced import duty of 10 percent was issued. May 21. The customs duties on certain imported materials that would be assembled locally were re- duced (Decree No. 90-841). July 21. The value-added tax and the consumption tax on imported automobiles that would be used as taxis or rental vehicles were suspended, and the customs duties on these products were reduced (Decree No. 90-1211). Payments for Invisibles December 20. Regulations on remittances relating to salaries, dividends, attendance fees, subscrip- tions, and bank charges, were issued (Circular No. 90-24). Capital March 19. An Investment Code for the tourism sector came into effect (Law No. 90-21). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The Turkish authorities do not observe margins in re- spect of exchange transactions, and Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the ex- change rate for the Turkish lira against the U.S. dol- lar is determined in the daily fixing sessions held in the Central Bank. Commercial banks, special fi- nance institutions, authorized institutions, and the Central Bank can participate in the daily fixing ses- sion by giving two-way quotations with spreads between the purchase and sale prices not exceeding 1 percent for a sum of US$200,000. Once the Turkish lira exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is determined in the fixing session, ex- change rates for other currencies are set on the basis of their cross rate relationship with the U.S. dollar in international markets. These rates then become the official exchange rate of the following day and are used in the Central Bank's transactions and for offi- cial, statistical purposes. Commercial banks, spe- cial financial institutions, and authorized institu- tions are free to set their exchange rates once a day in respect of foreign exchange transactions not exceed- ing US$3,000 and are required to inform the Central Bank. In foreign exchange transactions exceeding US$3,000, the exchange rate for each transaction is also determined freely between these institutions and the parties concerned. The lowest and highest rates applied in these transactions must be reported to the Central Bank. The commercial banks are also free to establish their own buying and selling rates in the interbank market. Foreign exchange transactions between the Central Bank and the commercial banks take place through the interbank market. In order to facilitate speedy quotations of interbank rates during the day, as well as during the week, a two-way as well as a one-way quotation is in operation. On December 31, 1990, the Central Bank's official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were IT 2,927.13 and LT 2,933.00, respectively, per US$1. On Decem- ber 31,1990, the average rate in the interbank mar- ket for the U.S. dollar was LT 2,977.30 per US$1. A Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS) is designed to provide domestic borrowers with an exchange rate guarantee for approved for- eign borrowing. Foreign borrowing under the scheme is on-lent in Turkish liras at a domestic variable interest rate determined on a monthly basis. The difference between the lira cost at the time it is contracted and the lira cost of repayments is covered from resources of the scheme. The commercial banks can deal freely in forward transactions within the predetermined limits im- posed by the Central Bank. Forward transactions are permitted, with terms ranging from 15 days to 6 months, except for interbank forward transactions for which the minimum time limit is 1 day. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accordance with inter- national practices. Banks enter into swap transac- tions with the Central Bank with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months. Banks use this facility mostly to provide Turkish liras. Turkey formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1990. Administration of Control Exchange and trade controls are the responsibil- ity of the Prime Ministry, to which the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is at- tached. Administration of exchange controls has been delegated to the Central Bank, which regu- lates all matters related to foreign exchange opera- tions. All commercial banks have been authorized by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade to engage in foreign exchange operations on their own account. Export registration is carried out by trade organizations, according to instructions from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. The Undersecretariat also issues export li- censes but may delegate this authority to the rele- vant trade organizations. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Turkey notified the Fund, on September 12, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Al- geria, Bangladesh, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mo- rocco, Tunisia, and with members of the Economic Cooperation Organization (other than Czechoslo- vakia, Poland, and the U.S.S.R.), under which set- tlements were made in clearing U.S. dollars, were 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 509 terminated by the end of 1990. Certain commercial transactions with Czechoslovakia, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. are made through special accounts de- nominated in U.S. dollars. Settlement with all other countries is made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange and Turkish liras with autho- rized commercial banks. Such accounts are dispos- able at the discretion of the holders. Imports and Import Payments All goods are freely importable, except for those explicitly prohibited by special laws, such as narco- tics, stereopten, weapons, foreign coins made of silver and other metals (excluding foreign coins made of gold), and ammunition. Imports of these goods are allowed only with a special permit from the authorities. Imports of sold, used and recondi- tioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor quality goods may be made only with special per- mission from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; when such goods are needed for a project, permission may be given by the State Plan- ning Organization. All commercial imports require import licenses, the valid period of which depends upon the declara- tion of the authorized parties. The validity may be extended according to the principles determined by the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued to reg- istered importers, industrialists, state economic en- terprises, and government departments. No special permit is required for any authorized person to ap- ply for an import license to any bank. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange pay- ments to be made and permits goods to be cleared through customs. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance), or by way of accep- tance credits. Partial prepayments are authorized under certain conditions. Regulations concerning imports without alloca- tion of foreign exchange by the banking system mainly affect imports of goods for personal or pro- fessional use by travelers domiciled in Turkey, and temporary imports by Turkish workers employed abroad and maintaining foreign exchange accounts with the Central Bank. Customs duties are based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System. The rates range mostly up to 5 percent on raw materials, between 5 percent and 10 percent on intermediate and semifinished products, and between 10 percent and 15 percent on finished goods. Higher rates ap- ply to certain consumer goods considered luxuries. Imported goods are also subject to (1) a municipal tax of 15 percent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp duty of 10 percent of the declared value; and (3) a transportation infrastructure duty, de- pending on the mode of transportation of imported goods. Certain goods are subject to various rates of levy, which are transferred to an extrabudgetary fund ("funds list"). Payments for Invisibles Residents may freely make payments for invisible transactions relating to all services to nonresidents at home or abroad. All residents may travel abroad with a maximum amount of foreign exchange equivalent to US$5,000 a person without proof of exchange allocation by commercial banks, and banks are permitted to sell to residents up to the equivalent of US$5,000 a per- son without restriction. Foreign currency notes in excess of US$5,000 or its equivalent can be taken out of the country, provided it is documented that they have been purchased from commercial banks. Out- bound travelers are subject to a tax equivalent to US$100, payable in Turkish liras, regardless of whether there are related purchases of foreign ex- change; the tax is reduced by one half for travelers 18 years or younger. Individuals engaged in border trade with the permission of the governor of the province concerned and immigrants and refugees traveling abroad are required to pay the tax in Turk- ish liras equivalent to US$25 and US$50, respec- tively. Exempted from payment of this tax are (1) all foreign nationals; (2) first-time pilgrims to Mecca; (3) Turkish workers employed abroad and their families; (4) crews of ships and planes, and truck drivers; (5) those living in border areas and who may leave the country by Administrative Permits; (6) those going abroad for medical treatment and their escorts; (7) private students going abroad for education purposes; and (8) civil servants (and their families) sent abroad on permanent assignment. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of US$5,000 in Turkish lira notes and coins; nonresidents may take out without restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange that they brought in. Provided that the foreign exchange was declared at the time of entry, nonresident trav- elers may reconvert liras into foreign currency upon presentation of documents showing that foreign ex- change had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Turkish workers employed abroad and persons domiciled abroad may freely take ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 TURKEY abroad with them foreign exchange in excess of US$5,000 or its equivalent, provided that they de- clared such amoun ts on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Commercial exports are classified under the fol- lowing categories: (1) free exports (i.e., exports not requiring any official permission); (2) exports sub- ject to registration, including exports of goods for which payments are made from, or a deduction is made to the Support and Price Stabilization Fund; (3) licorice roots, olive oil, all kinds of yarn, fabrics, garments and underwear, finished leathers, and steel and iron products; (4) exports settled in Turk- ish liras; (5) exports made within the framework of special accounts; (6) exports of natural gas under agreement with the U.S.S.R.; (7) the "Free Export Declarations" registered by the professional institu- tions and by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade; (8) exports on credit, consign- ment, and through joint accounts, including tem- porary exports; (9) exports of construction com- panies that are awarded construction, installation, and erection work abroad; (10) re-exports, imports with a waiver; transit trade, participating in interna- tional fairs and exhibitions; and (11) exports to free zones and duty-free warehouses subject to the per- mission of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and For- eign Trade or the professional institutions autho- rized by the Treasury. Until November 14, 1990, barter trade was pro- hibited, except for authorized public sector agencies and Foreign Trade Capital Companies. Since November 1990, all companies have been allowed to conduct barter trade with the permission of the Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade. The surrender requirement for foreign exchange receipts from merchandise exports is 70 percent. Retained foreign exchange may be deposited in for- eign exchange accounts with commercial banks, kept abroad, or disposed of. The maximum period allowed for the surrender of at least 70 percent of export proceeds is 180 days from the date of export shipment. An export tax rebate scheme, under which direct and indirect taxes paid on certain exported goods (mainly industrial goods) were refunded, was phased out by the end of 1988 and has been re- placed partially by subsidized credit programs ad- ministered by the Turkish Eximbank. The Ex- imbank also promotes exports by providing insurance against commercial and political risks on commercial terms. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may accept foreign currency from non- residents for transactions processed in Turkey. For- eign exchange earned by residents in exchange for services they have rendered to nonresidents or on behalf of them in Turkey or abroad (including con- tracting services), as well as foreign exchange corre- sponding to expenses incurred in the name and on behalf of nonresidents, can be disposed of freely. Capital Nonresident individuals and corporations wish- ing to invest in Turkey must import the required capital in the form of foreign exchange or in kind and must obtain a license from the Foreign Capital Department of the State Planning Organization. Proposals consistent with the existing foreign in- vestment policy are approved, provided that a mini- mum of US$50,000 of capital is brought in by foreign investors. Certain investments are allowed under the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law. Profits and dividends and the proceeds from sales and liquidation of foreign capital by banks and financial institutions may be transferred abroad and must be reported to the Central Bank. Resident individuals or corporations may invest abroad up to the equiv- alent of US$5 million in cash or in kind. The export of capital in amounts ranging from the equivalent of US$5 million to US$50 million requires the approval of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Capital exports of larger amounts must be approved by the Council of Ministers. Nonresidents may transfer abroad, without restriction, proceeds from sales of real estate. Purchases and sales by nonresidents of Turkish securities, including mu- tual funds, quoted in the stock exchange or issued with the permission of the Capital Market Board and are securities issued by public institutions through the intermediary institutions operating in Turkey under the Capital Market Law, including banks, may be made freely. The transfer of the in- come from such securities and the proceeds from their sale are free through banks and special finance institutions. Purchases by residents of foreign se- curities quoted on foreign stock exchanges and of treasury bills and government bonds that are de- nominated in approved currencies are also free, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks and special finance institutions. Commercial banks may open "Foreign Exchange Accounts" for residents or nonresidents. Funds in such accounts may be freely disposed of by the holders, and interest rates and other conditions on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 511 the above accounts are freely negotiable between the parties. Commercial banks are free to conduct foreign exchange transactions according to their needs. In addition, banks are free to operate within the margins of certain ratios set by the Central Bank. The liquidity ratio, under which banks hold foreign exchange assets against foreign exchange liabilities, may not be less than 20 percent. The ratio of all foreign-currency-denominated assets to the sum of foreign currency deposits plus foreign exchange overdrafts and foreign exchange loans received from abroad is subject to an exchange rate risk ratio requirement. This ratio is calculated on the basis of three categories: the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, and the U.S. dollar equivalent of other convertible currencies. The exchange rate risk used in relation to foreign exchange position management is 80 per- cent (minimum) and 120 percent (maximum) for each category and 85 percent (minimum) and 115 percent (maximum) for the third category. Gold The Central Bank of Turkey is authorized to im- port gold into Turkey and conduct purchase and sale transactions with the public without restriction. A gold market is established in the Central Bank, in which gold conforming to international standards is sold to the banks and authorized institutions in ex- change for foreign currency. Banks and authorized institutions, in turn, sell gold to the public in ex- change for Turkish liras. The importation and ex- portation of processed precious metal stones and goods for commercial purposes are not restricted. However, the qualifications of the authorized com- panies to conduct business are subject to approval. Travelers may bring into or take out of Turkey pre- cious metals or stones in their personal possession with a value up to US$15,000. Exports or imports of metals or stones exceeding this value are subject to declaration. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement March 3. Commercial banks were allowed to set their buying and selling rates freely; previously, margins of 0.2 percent (1 percent for cash) had been allowed around the central bank rate. March 22. Turkey formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund. August 17. The limit on the amount of foreign exchange for which the exchange rates are allowed to be negotiated freely between authorized institu- tions and their customers was reduced to US$3,000 from US$10,000. Imports and Import Payments January 17. The Government announced the fol- lowing changes in the import regime: (1) the list of goods whose imports were subject to license was abolished; (2) the advance import deposit scheme was eliminated; (3) 141 basic capital goods were exempted from customs duties, and customs duties on 7,545 items were reduced; and (4) restrictions on imports from state trading countries were abol- ished, and these imports were subject to the same regulations as those applicable to imports from other sources. February 25. Payments for imports were allowed to be transferred through commercial banks in the form of either Turkish liras or foreign currencies in accordance with the agreement between the buyer and the seller; previously, they were permitted only in foreign exchange. The same regulations would apply to payments for services. April 11. The automobile industry was included in the category of "specialty import sectors," and customs duties on imported parts to be used in factories with an annual production capacity of at least 100,000 cars were abolished. April 11. The import taxes on some 231 items were reduced, as follows: levies were removed on im- ported cement, ju te plant, and paper fibers and textiles, and customs duties were eliminated on sin- gle- and double-decker buses. Customs duties and levies on 121 investment goods that are included in the list of "goods benefiting from a direct import incentive" were reduced. July 18. Customs duties on 98 items, including petroleum products and some investment goods, were reduced, and those on 243 items, including ferro products, were removed. Levies on 36 items were reduced, and those on 28 items were removed, while levies on some items were raised. September 5. The stamp duty on imported goods was eliminated, and the customs duty rates for most items were raised by 15 percentage points. The 10 percent levy on imports of petroleum prod- ucts for the Support and Price Stabilization Fund was increased to 20 percent. November 3. The stamp duty on imported goods was reintroduced, and the increases in customs duties introduced on September 5, 1990 were rescinded. Payments for Invisibles February 25. The limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that Turkish residents are allowed to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 TURKEY take out when traveling abroad was raised to the equivalent of US$5,000 from the equivalent of US$3,000. Residents were allowed to take out for- eign currency notes relating to invisible transactions in excess of US$5,000 or its equivalent, provided that they purchased the foreign currency notes from banks or special finance institutions in Turkey. Nonresidents and Turkish workers residing abroad were allowed to take out foreign currency notes in excess of US$5,000 or its equivalent, provided that they declared the amount upon arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds January 24. Premium payments made from the Support and Price Stabilization Fund to exporters of some categories of items, including meat, vegeta- bles, ready-to-wear garments, footwear, carpets, highway vehicles, and iron and steel products were increased. February 14. The Government amended the deci- sion on "Encouragement of Exports and Other For- eign Exchange Earning Activities/' The amend- ment included (1) extension by up to three months of the period during which exporters may import inputs without paying tariff or levy charges; (2) granting of one additional year during which exports to countries where foreign trade is na- tionalized may be canceled unilaterally irrespective of whether or not exports have been realized; and (3) introduction of a more liberal procedure in re- spect of treatment of export documents that contain incorrect information. October 17. The Turkish Eximbank announced that, in an effort to encourage exporters to obtain export insurance coverage, those exporters who purchase export insurance policy would be permit- ted to repay half of the rediscount credit in 90 days, instead of in 21 days. November 13. The 1991 export incentives pertain- ing to importation of inputs were announced; the validity period of export incentive documents would vary from 12 months to 24 months. November 14. It was announced that the export regime was to be simplified, effective December 1, 1990. Main changes would include (1) the state minister responsible for the Treasury and Foreign Trade Undersecretariat would be authorized to is- sue permits and set conditions for exports; (2) all companies would be entitled to seek permission to conduct barter trade; (3) the 90-day deadline on registered exports would not be extended; and (4) monitoring and formalities regarding transit trade would be undertaken by banks and special finance institutions. December 13. The authorities announced that ex- port premium payments to exporters of certain products from the Support and Price Stabilization Fund would be amended, effective January 1,1991. The number of products eligible to receive pay- ments would be reduced to 89 from 116. Capital February 25. Residents were allowed to invest abroad in cash up to US$5 million or its equivalent in other currencies through banks and special fi- nance institutions domiciled in Turkey. (Noncash t rans fe rs would continue to be subject to existing customs regulations.) Investments between US$5million and US$50 million would be subject to authorization f rom the Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade; those exceeding US$50 million would require approval from the Council of Ministers. February 25. Nonresidents were allowed to pur- chase securities, including mutual funds, which had been issued with the permission of the Capital Market Board or issued by the public institutions through intermediary institutions operating in Tur- key under the Capital Market Law (including banks) and listed at the stock exchange. February 25. Residents in Turkey were allowed to secure foreign credits abroad in cash or kind, pro- vided that they use banks or special financial in- stitutions as intermediaries. March 3. The minimum utilization ratio require- ment, under which banks were required to extend 50 percent of foreign exchange deposits as foreign credit, was abolished. August 17. Turkish officials and private business- men working abroad temporarily and Turkish workers living abroad who have finally returned to Turkey would no longer be permitted to open new deposit accounts under the Dresdner Scheme. Those who had established net deposit accounts before this date would be required to close their accounts on maturity. October 20. It was announced that, with approval from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, domestic banks and branches of foreign banks would be allowed to operate in free trade zones to conduct offshore banking activities. The banks operating in these zones would be allowed to extend credit to individual Turkish residents but not to take deposits or issue debt instruments, such as bonds or bills. Banks would be allowed to trade on the Istanbul Stock Exchange, but would not be al- lowed to become members of the Exchange or en- gage in brokerage activities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position in December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling. There are two exchange markets: the official and the foreign exchange bureau market. The external value of the official rate is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The exchange rate in the foreign exchange bureau market is deter- mined by supply and demand conditions. On De- cember 31,1990, the official buying and selling rates were U Sh 531.36 and U Sh 552.96, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates be- tween the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. In its foreign exchange dealings, the Bank of Uganda charges a commission of 1.4 percent buying and 2.6 percent selling. Au- thorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies1 at rates quoted by the Bank of Uganda or, for a currency not quoted, at rates calcu- lated according to prevailing cross rates. Autho- rized foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at market- determined rates. At present, the official rate is applied to all government imports, debt-service payments, imports of oil, imports under project aid, open general licenses, and Special Import Programs (SIPs). Proceeds from coffee exports and official loans and grants are channeled through the official market. All other transactions can take place at the bureau rate. Authorized banks may, subject to ex- change control approval, deal forward with customers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and cer- tain other convertible currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers im- pose a service charge of not more than 1.5 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faeroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the former Sterling Area other than the Uganda shilling. export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The Minister of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts with the central banks of Kenya and Tanzania, which are settled in U.S. dollars. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Ac- count in Uganda, or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be ob- tained in Uganda shillings from an external account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain settlements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through reciprocal accounts. Uganda maintains bilateral trade and payments agreements with Algeria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Ger- many, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Yugoslavia. External Accounts Accounts in foreign exchange held by residents of foreign countries who are living in Uganda are des- ignated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External Ac- counts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign exchange currency and gold by nonresi- dents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from autho- rized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts main- tained with commercial banks. Subject to prior ap- proval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 514 UGANDA may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan residents, who are exporters of items other than coffee and who are earning comis- sions, consulting fees, rent and other incomes in foreign exchange, may operate foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks in Uganda. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most imports are controlled through the import-licensing system. Foreign exchange alloca- tions to various ministries and departments must be backed by documents showing the approval of the Central Tender Board. Under the Open General License (OGL) system, which was introduced in November 1987, foreign exchange is made freely available for imports of inputs by specific enterprises in ten key industries (soap, tobacco, beverages, textiles, cement, mat- tresses, pharmaceuticals, aluminum, nails, and sugar). In practice, because the demand for imports under the OGL system exceeds the foreign ex- change made available for this purpose, eligible firms are granted approval only for a specific total value of imports required during a period of one year. The Central Bank may object to the granting of foreign exchange for such imports either because the quoted import price or the import volume is considered excessive. Foreign exchange for OGL imports is obtained from import support funds pro- vided by the World Bank, the European Com- munity, and bilateral donors. Under a SIP introduced in December 1988, alloca- tions of foreign exchange are made to eligible cate- gories of imports on a first-come first-served basis. The SIP was liberalized in June 1989, permitting additional imports and some service payments. The SIP system was revised again in February 1990, and eligibility was changed to be based on a revised negative list of goods as determined in part by the Ministry of Commerce. In order to receive exchange allocations for government imports, OGL, and SIP, an advance deposit of 100 percent is required. The Ministry of Commerce issues import licenses and levies a commission of 1.0 percent of the license value. It also issues licenses for private sector im- ports financed from the importer's own foreign ex- change resources without an official allocation. In these cases, the Ministry examines the application to ensure that price and quantity are reasonable. Import shipments are subject to inspection by inter- national agencies to ensure that quality and quan- tity are as stated in the contract and that the invoice price corresponds to the actual value. Anyone wishing to import goods valued in excess of US$20,000 is required to submit pro forma in- voices from three different suppliers, except in the case of repeater and proprietary imports. Normally, imports must be purchased directly from the coun- try of origin. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within six months of the date of payment. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made in the context of the monthly foreign exchange budget. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to one third of their gross monthly earnings to cover family mainte- nance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment that includes a firm com- mitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the con- tract. Remittance of profits, dividends, and interest payments are allowed subject to the availability of foreign exchange. The following limits apply to for- eign exchange that may be purchased in the foreign exchange bureaus: (1) for travel, US$3,000 a trip, (2) medical treatment, US$20,000 to be transferred through a bank with supporting documents, and (3) US$15,000 for education. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit (see section on Capital, below). The exportation of Uganda bank notes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that Ugandan travelers returning to Uganda may take out U Sh 2,500. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All exports require certificates from the Ministry of Commerce and may be restricted to ensure suffi- cient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Parasta- tal organizations and the private sector are involved in the exportation of nontraditional commodities, including maize, beans, soybeans, sesame seeds, peanuts, hides and skins, fish, fruit and vegetables, and timber. Export certificates for these products are granted subject to determination by the relevant authorities that price and quality are reasonable and domestic supplies are adequate. Exporters may re- tain proceeds from exports other than coffee and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 515 sell them in the recently established (July 1990) for- eign exchange bureau market. One hundred per- cent of coffee export receipts are still required to be surrendered to the Bank of Uganda. Coffee is sub- ject to an export duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be sold to an authorized dealer within 48 hours. The import of Uganda bank notes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that returning residents may bring in U Sh 2,500 a per- son. Travelers may freely bring in bank notes de- nominated in specified currencies and foreign cur- rency traveler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individ- ual exchange control approval, and those to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Foreign assets must be deposited with an authorized depository, except that residents of Uganda may be granted an exemption in respect of specified former Sterling Area assets held before June 11, 1965. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally trans- fer their assets up to the equivalent of US$10,000 for each family unit from their declared assets. Amounts in excess of this are placed in a Blocked Account and invested in Government of Uganda securities. The principal is transferred yearly and the accrued interest is also released. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on non- guaranteed overseas borrowing by resident com- panies or individuals. Foreign investment in Uganda is permitted with or without government participation. Certain industries, such as public utilities and telecommunications, are wholly re- served for government ownership. In other key in- dustries, such as textiles, brewing, animal feed manufacture, the dairy industry, and tourism, the Government may acquire a certain percentage of the ownership but does accept private investment from either domestic or foreign sources. To secure a guar- antee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "ap- proved status" for the investment in terms of the Investment Act, 1991. In normal circumstances, ap- proved status is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the Industrial Licensing Act. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds on resale in most cases. Prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to nonresidents or to corporate bodies resident in Uganda that are controlled, di- rectly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 5 and redeemable by the Bank of Uganda was issued in 1969 but, in practice, does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. Only monetary authorities and authorized industrial and profes- sional users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export certificates are not normally granted except for ex- ports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the form of ingots, bars, or sheets; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement July 2. A foreign exchange bureau (forex bureau) market was established. Any person, bank, or other institution licensed by the Bank of Uganda may open and operate foreign exchange bureaus, which are authorized to engage in purchases and sales of scheduled foreign currencies in cash or traveler's checks at freely negotiated rates. Forex bureaus may also buy personal checks, bank drafts, and other transfers but may not engage in selling such instru- ments. They are not required to identify their sources of foreign exchange; similarly, sellers of for- eign exchange to the forex bureaus are not required to reveal their sources of foreign exchange. All bona fide imports and services are allowed to be trans- acted through the forex bureaus. Foreign exchange for import payments may be purchased in the forex bureau market, subject to the following conditions: (1) up to US$1,000 without exchange control authorization for the purchase of goods for personal use; (2) up to US$5,000 obtained ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 UGANDA from a forex bureau can be transferred through a bank (by draft or telegraphic transfer) by an im- porter after he completes Form "E" for imports and declares the intended imports (additional transac- tions of this type are permitted after the completion of each import); and (3) foreign exchange in excess of US$5,000 obtained from a forex bureau for import payments requires a letter of credit, an import li- cense, a pro forma invoice, and a completed Form "E" for imports. In addition, for imports valued in excess of US$10,000, a preshipment inspection is required. After establishing the letter of credit, im- port documents are required to be submitted to the Bank of Uganda for monitoring. Foreign exchange for service payments may be purchased in the forex bureau market, subject to the following conditions: (1) up to US$3,000 may be purchased from a forex bureau by a traveler for each trip; (2) up to US$20,000 purchased from a forex bureau may be transferred through a bank without exchange control authorization for payment of med- ical services after completing Form "E" and after presenting documentary evidence; (3) up to US$15,000 purchased from a forex bureau may be transferred through a bank without prior exchange control authorization to meet education expenses with documentary proof; and (4) transfers of for- eign exchange obtained from a forex bureau for payments of all other services require approval from the Bank of Uganda. Imports and Import Payments February 22. The Special Import Program with a revised negative list was resumed. Importers were required to get import licences before submitting their application to Bank of Uganda for financing. Exports and Export Proceeds October 1. Four cooperative unions were granted the right to export coffee, thus ending the export monopoly of the Coffee Marketing Board. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the offi- cial rate; since November 1980, the U .A .E dirham has maintained an unchanged relationship with the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency, and the Central Bank publishes buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On Decem- ber 31, 1990, the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6690 and Dh 3.6730, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange trans- actions, including forward contracts related to com- mercial and financial transactions, at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. There is a swap facility at the Central Bank, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of US$20 million outstanding for one-month and three-month swaps and US$10 mil- lion outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of US$3 million in purchases a day for each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration require- ments for inward or outward transfers. There is no regime of export and import licensing. 1The seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fujairah. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa and Israel are pro- hibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. Virtually all other commodities may be freely imported with- out an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade, and an importer can import only the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of per- mitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs duty of 4 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports originating from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are not subject to any customs duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to South Africa and Israel are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported or re-exported freely and without an ex- port license to any destination other than South Africa and Israel. Each Emirate establishes its own export regula- tions. The proceeds from exports need not be re- patriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, with the exception of payments to South Africa and Israel, which are prohibited. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 518 Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from owning real estate except for the purpose of carrying on business and for accommodation. Under the United Arab Emirates Company Law (Law No. 8, 1984), at least 51 percent of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the member countries of the GCC are permitted to hold (1) up to 75 percent of equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and con- struction sectors, and in the consultancy areas (Law No. 2, 1984); and (2) up to 100 percent of equity of companies in the hotel industry. Furthermore, na- tionals of the member countries of the GCC are permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law of 1989. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Banks oper- ating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the Central Bank equal to 30 percent of their placements with or lend- ing to nonresident banks in dirhams with a remain- ing life of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20 percent. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but the importation of gold for trade purposes is undertaken only by licensed par- ties. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty, but jewelry is not. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The United Kingdom participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) of the Euro- pean Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, the United Kingdom undertakes to maintain the spot exchange rates between the pound sterling and the currencies of the other par- ticipants within margins of 6 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central exchange rate expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of England stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of other participating countries in unlimited amounts at the specified intervention rates. On December 31,1990, these rates were as follows: Pounds sterling Specified Intervention Rates per: Upper Limit Lower Limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Spanish pesetas 1.7451 9.4361 35.9970 10.7320 0.96424 0.48105 31.9450 0.55374 1.5479 8.3697 31.9280 9.5190 0.85520 0.42669 28.3340 0.491160 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure the proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1990, the closing buy- ing and selling rates for the pound sterling against the U.S. dollar in foreign exchange markets in London as observed by the Bank of England were US$1.9290 and US$1.9300, respectively, per £ 1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free mar- ket rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. 519 Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the De- partment of Trade and Industry, but other depart- ments also issue licenses in specialized fields. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, the United Kingdom notified the Fund, on August 13, 1990, that certain restrictions were im- posed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to the Govern- ment of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription requirements. of currency Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. For import-licensing purposes, countries outside the United Kingdom are divided into ten groups: the ACP Area;1 the CEFTA Area;2 the Community Area;3 the Dollar Area;4 the Far Eastern and West- ern Area;5 the Mediterranean Area;6 the OCT JThe ACP Area comprises Angola, An t igua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burund i, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central A f r ican Re- public, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Djibouti, Do- minica, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Jama ica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanua tu, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 2The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portu- gal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 3The Community Area comprises all EC member states. 4The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, N icaragua, Pan- ama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 5The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and United States. 6The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 UNITED KINGDOM Area;7 the State Trading Area;8 the Residual Textile Area;9 and all other countries. Most imports are admitted under an open general import license without restriction, with the excep- tion of certain textile goods,10 and the following exceptions at the end of 1990: (1) from all countries, two commodities or groups of commodities;11 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of com- modities; (3) from the U.S.S.R. one group of com- modities; (4) from the State Trading Area only, eight commodities or groups of commodities; and (5) from South Africa only, two commodities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported un- der the authority of the open general import license; some items are subject to surveillance licensing, under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain informa- tion. Most articles subject to specific import licens- ing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, that is, without limit as to quantity or value. Imports of automobiles from Japan are subject to voluntary export restraints of the respective supplying coun- tries. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to 7The OCX Area comprises British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Greenland, Mayotte, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curasao, St. Eustatius, St. Maarten (South), and Saba), New Caledonia and Dependencies, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and West Indies Associated States. 8The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Democratic Kam- puchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 9The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territo- ries other than Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalem, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mal- aysia, Maldives, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Para- guay, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Re- public, Taiwan Province of China, Thailand, Uruguay; and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Mediterranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading Area. 10The restrictions on textiles do not apply to countries in the Community Area, Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and United States. 11 The skins of certain rare animals, most primary whale prod- ucts, and a number of other wildlife products, including raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and plumage, cannot be imported without an import license issued by the appropriate department. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported according to the Interna- tional Cocoa Agreement of 1986. minimum import prices enforced through autono- mously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and live- stock products are subject to European Community (EC) regulations. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control, and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds.12 Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credits Guarantee Department, exporters bidding for major capital projects in Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, or U.S. dol- lars when the U .K. element of the contract is for the equivalent of at least £ 10 million may obtain cover against exchange rate fluctuations between the sub- mission of their bid and the award of the contract. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no restrictions or exchange control re- quirements on capital transfers by residents or non- residents. Residents and nonresidents may freely transfer assets to and from the United Kingdom. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made by nonresidents in the United King- dom or by residents abroad. However, investments involving the takeover of existing U .K. companies that are considered a vital part of U .K. industry may be subject to the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manufacturing undertakings. There are no restrictions or formalities on transac- tions in sterling or foreign currency securities. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling, subject to prudential guidelines issued by the Bank of England concern- ing the limitation of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources funding sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 12Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of national security, animal welfare, national heritage, and in accor- dance with international agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 521 0.45 percent non-interest-bearing deposit require- ment with the Bank of England (0.40 percent from January 16,1991) and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the Bank. There is currently no special deposit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to control in the United Kingdom, other than imports of gold coins minted in or after 1961 and originating in South Africa. Gold sovereigns and Britannias, a new gold coin introduced in October 1987, are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The exportation of gold in manufactured form over 50 years old and valued at £ 8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Industry. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement October 8. The United Kingdom joined the ex- change rate mechanism of the European Mone- tary System with a central exchange rate ex- pressed in terms of the deutsche mark (DM) of £1 = DM 2.95. In accordance with the transitional provisions of the EMS agreement, the spot ex- change rates between the pound sterling and the currencies of the other participants would be maintained within margins of 6 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central ex- change rate expressed in the ECU. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EEC-wide basis during 1990, page 569.) Capital February 21. The ban on foreign direct investment in South Africa was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter disorderly conditions in the exchange markets or when otherwise deemed appropriate. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 10, 1946. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers li- censing programs involving direct or indirect finan- cial or commercial transactions with Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam as well as the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Iraq, as specified under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, Libyan Sanctions Reg- ulations, and the Iraqi Sanctions Regulations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked ac- counts of the above countries, as well as accounts of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regula- tions. The Department of the Treasury regulates the importation into the United States of goods or ser- vices originating from the Islamic Republic of Iran under the Iranian Transactions Regulations and ad- ministers restrictions on certain trade, lending, and investment activities involving South Africa under the South African Transactions Regulations pur- suant to the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. During 1990, a program involving Iraqi- occupied Kuwait was also in place. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established or allocated by other agencies. The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements, chaired by the Department of Commerce, with representatives from other agen- cies, decides when to request consultation with ex- porting countries to limit imports on the basis of the guidelines of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and bilateral restraint agreements. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. Global quotas, which are allocated to individual countries, on sugar and products con- taining sugar are set on an annual basis by the Secretary of Agriculture. For items subject to export control—other than munitions items—the Depart- ment of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed under Treasury Department regulations transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Iraq, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Viet Nam; those on imports from and certain assets of the Islamic Republic of Iran; and those on imports, loans, and investments involving South Africa. During 1990, there were also restrictions on Iraqi-occupied Kuwait. How- ever, certain payments to Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Viet Nam, related to authorized travel are permitted, as are certain pay- ments in connection with travel to and in the United States by nationals of these countries. Limited re- mittances to the remitter's close relatives in Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, and Viet Nam are also permitted. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, the United States notified the Fund, on Au- gust 21,1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to the Government of Iraq and to persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Imports and Import Payments Importation of goods and services originating in or representing a property interest of Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Viet Nam is prohibited under treasury regulations, unless specifically au- thorized. In addition, the importation is prohibited from South Africa of gold coins, uranium in the form of ore or oxide, coal, textiles, iron and steel, military articles, agricultural products, food, sugar, and any products grown, produced, manufactured, 522 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 523 marketed, or otherwise exported by parastatal or- ganizations of South Africa, pursuant to the Com- prehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. The same Act prohibits the importation of gold coins from the U.S.S.R. During 1990, there were also restrictions on imports of goods and services, and payments involving Iraqi-occupied Kuwait. Import quotas are in effect for certain products, including cotton, certain cotton waste and prod- ucts, many dairy products, peanuts, sugar, and cer- tain products containing sugar. Quotas may be im- posed by the President under specified conditions on certain types of meat. All quantitative import quotas, except those for peanuts, certain cotton products, butter, butter oil, certain other dairy products, and certain products containing sugar, are on a country-of-production basis. Certain dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the MFA negoti- ated within the framework of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). It maintains 30 bilateral textile agreements negotiated in accor- dance with the MFA's provisions, and 12 agree- ments with nonsignatories of the MFA. These agreements control trading partners' exports of tex- tiles and apparel to the United States in specific product categories and provide for orderly expan- sion of trade while minimizing the disruption of the U.S. market for these products. Imports from both agreement and nonagreement countries are monitored along with domestic industry perfor- mance to determine whether market disruption ex- ists or is threatened. When necessary, consultations with exporting countries are requested to establish limitations. Imports of a limited number of manufactured products (i.e., steel, machine tools, and shakes and shingles) are also effectively restricted by bilateral agreements or by the multilateral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries. Free trade area agreements are in force with Israel and with Canada. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) for developing countries has been in operation in the United States since January 1976 and is scheduled to continue through July 4,1993. Under a procedure referred to as "product graduation/' eligibility for duty-free treatment can be withdrawn for a particu- lar product in which a beneficiary country has be- come competitive. Cumulative treatment under the GSP scheme is extended to beneficiary members of the Andean Group, the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and the Caribbean Com- mon Market (CARICOM); cumulation allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the direct cost of producing a given product should originate in the beneficiary country. Exempt from competitive needs limits is a category of countries designated as "least developed" benefi- ciaries; currently, 32 countries are thus designated.1 Under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act, 22 countries and entities2 have been designated to receive preferential tariff treatment on specified im- ports for the period through September 30, 1995. Exports and Export Proceeds Ammunition may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The Department of Com- merce administers control directly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as well as instruments and related technical data, to all coun- tries except other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce ad- ministers controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Depart- ment administers controls on exports to Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam of goods of foreign origin by U.S. nationals or by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. nationals.) All exports from the United States to Cuba, Iraq, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Viet Nam (with the exception of publications and other information materials, personal baggage, and simi- lar items) are prohibited unless individually li- censed by the Department of Commerce and/or the Department of the Treasury. Exports of crude oil and petroleum products and materials and technol- ogy connected with nuclear power to South Africa are also prohibited, as are exports of computer tech- nology and items on the U.S. munitions list to spec- ified South African agencies. During 1990, there Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Western Samoa, and Yemen Arab Republic. 2Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Brit- ish Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Monserrat, Netherlands Antilles, Panama, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 524 UNITED STATES were also restrictions on exports of goods and ser- vices to Iraqi-occupied Kuwait. Exports to all other countries, except Canada, of designated strategic materials and equipment require validated licenses from the Department of Commerce. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction require a Trea- sury Department license to participate in transac- tions in strategic goods involving certain socialist countries regardless of origin, unless the transac- tion is licensed by another member of the Coordi- nating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM). This program is administered pursuant to the Transaction Control Regulations. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than Afghanistan, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Re- public, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Viet Nam, dis- tribution licenses may be obtained to cover multiple shipments. The licensing requirements applicable to Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applica- ble to other Eastern European countries. Under the Export Administration Act of 1979, which was amended in 1985, the President can sus- pend the export of nonagricultural goods for rea- sons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although effor ts are made to minimize the use of such authority. Export suspension of agricultural commodities may not be imposed for reasons of short supply, foreign policy, or national security, unless a direct security threat exists. For agricultural commodities, such as wheat, flour, corn, sorghum, rice, soybeans and soybean products, cotton, exporting companies are required to participate in a reporting system that is designed to improve market information and allow for more orderly exporting. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Iraq, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Viet Nam, most payments to Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and certain payments relating to the Islamic Republic of Iran and South Africa.3 Dur- 3Certain payments and transfers to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled entities involving obligations contracted prior to January 19,1981 are subject to restrictions as are payments for goods or services imported from the Islamic Republic of Iran. ing 1990, payments and transfers to Iraqi-occupied Kuwait were also prohibited. Residents of the United States are allowed to remit up to $500 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba and $300 a quarter to close relatives in Democratic Kampuchea and Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to $500 to Cuba and $750 to Democratic Kampuchea and Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries. Receipts of funds from Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam are generally pro- hibited, as are certain types of payments from Iraq and Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio investment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Investments involv- ing ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain trans- actions with, or involving, Cuba, Iraq, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Viet Nam. Dur- ing 1990, there were also restrictions involving Iraqi- occupied Kuwait. New investments by U.S. na- tionals in South Africa are prohibited, subject to limited exceptions. The Johnson Act, 18 U.S.C. 955, prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the United States Government. The Act does not apply to those for- eign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. In addition, there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the United States when they are carrying more than $10,000 in cash or negotiable instruments (as well as corresponding reporting requirements for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U.S. agri- cultural land by foreign nationals or by U.S. corpor- ations in which foreign owners have a significant interest (at least 10 percent) or substantial control must be reported to the U.S. Department of Agri- culture. Certain states in the United States impose ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 525 varying restrictions on purchases of land within their borders by foreign nationals. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to limitations of a quantitative nature, but banks are expected to follow normal banking practices and maintain prudent positions. U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, as well as domestic banks, are subject to reserve requirements by the Federal Reserve system. Loans and extension of credit to or acceptance of deposits from the South African Government or its entities are prohibited; trade credits are exempt. Beginning December 3, 1981, U.S. chartered de- pository institutions, U.S. offices of Edge Act and Agreement Corporations,4 and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks have been allowed to es- tablish international banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including foreign offices of do- mestic banks), from other IBFs, or from the institu- tion establishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve requirements of Regulation D. For nonbank foreign residents, the minimum maturity or notice requirement is two business days, and the minimum transaction amount is $100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of do- mestic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity estab- lishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its establishing entity in the United States are sub- ject to Eurocurrency reserve requirements in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the entity's foreign offices. Effective Decem- ber 31, 1988, U.S. banks have been permitted to accept foreign currency deposits. A number of indi- vidual states (but not the Federal Government) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage and assessments. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or 4These are defined as domestically chartered corporations au- thorized to engage in international banking and financial operations. exports) involving Cuba, Iraq, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Viet Nam. Imports of South African Krugerrand and other South African gold coins, and gold coins minted in the U.S.S.R. are prohibited under the Comprehensive Anti- Apartheid Act of 1986, as are imports of gold bullion marketed by the Reserve Bank of South Africa. Dur- ing 1990, there were restrictions on transactions in- volving Iraqi-occupied Kuwait. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coins, with the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same country excep- tions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold, but not counterfeit gold coins, may be freely imported, except from the countries mentioned above. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry, except gold jewelry fashioned from U.S.S.R. or South African gold coins, are free of quantitative restriction but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coins. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes During 1990 Administration of Control During 1990 the United States concluded trade agreements with a number of countries. The impor- tant ones were the following. April 12. The United States and Czechoslovakia signed a trade agreement (the agreement came into force through the exchange of diplomatic notes on November 17, 1990). The two countries agreed to apply the rules of the GATT between themselves and, inter alia, to grant each other most-favored- nation (MFN) treatment, including tariffs. U.S. firms would be offered MFN treatment in currency convertibility and would have national treatment in local currency transactions; hard currency earnings from trade would be permitted to be immediately repatriated. The Government of Czechoslovakia un- dertook to strengthen its intellectual property legis- lation and to streamline its approval process for commercial representatives and for Czechoslovaks wishing to trade with foreigners. Both sides agreed not to mandate the use of barter or countertrade in commercial transactions. The accord also included a number of provisions to make it easier for U.S. com- panies to do business in Czechoslovakia and a side letter on tourism to facilitate the two-way provision ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 UNITED STATES of services between the two countries. (The legisla- tion (HJRes649) was passed by Congress in October and signed by the President on November 9, 1990.) May 8. The United States and Bolivia signed a framework agreement establishing a U.S.-Bolivia Council on Trade and Investment with the major objectives of monitoring trade and investment rela- tions, pursuing the goal of open markets between both countries, and, where appropriate, negotiat- ing agreements. June 1. The presidents of the United States and the U.S.S.R. signed a trade agreement providing for MFN status and nondiscriminatory treatment be- tween the two countries, covering obligations with respect to market access for products and services, the establishment of commercial offices and busi- ness facilities, the protection of intellectual prop- erty, and the convertibility of currency. In addition, nine protocols covering such topics as standardized commodity classification, the protection of trade se- crets, copyright protection for computer software, trade in textiles and textile products, and tourism were exchanged. The initial term of the agreement would be three years from December 29,1990 when the agreement became effective. June 22. The United States and Hungary renewed their bilateral trade agreement, under which the two countries grant each other MFN status. July 17. The United States and Colombia signed a framework agreement establishing a U.S.- Colombia Council on Trade and Investment, whose major objectives are monitoring trade and invest- ment relations, pursuing the goal of open markets between both countries, and, where appropriate, negotiating agreements. July 23. The United States and Ecuador signed a framework agreement establishing a U.S.-Ecuador Council on Trade and Investment, whose major objectives are monitoring trade and investment re- lations, pursuing the goal of open markets between both countries, and, where appropriate, negotiat- ing agreements. October 1. The United States and Chile signed a framework agreement establishing a U.S.-Chile Council on Trade and Investment, whose major objectives are monitoring trade and investment re- lations, pursuing the goal of open markets between both countries, and, where appropriate, negotiat- ing agreements. October 5. The United States and Bulgaria con- cluded negotiations on the text of a new bilateral trade agreement, including reciprocal MFN status. The ac- cord contains explicit provisions guaranteeing U.S. companies certain rights in Bulgaria, including estab- lishment of commercial representations. November 1. The United States and Honduras signed a framework agreement establishing a U.S.- Honduras Council on Trade and Investment, whose major objectives are monitoring trade and invest- ment relations, pursuing the goal of open markets between both countries, and, where appropriate, negotiating agreements. November 29. The United States and Costa Rica signed a framework agreement establishing a Council on Trade and Investment. The Council's main objectives are to monitor trade and investment relations, to pursue a goal of open markets between both countries, and to negotiate agreements. December 4. The United States and Argentina signed a mutual customs cooperation agreement aimed at facilitating the exchange of customs information. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The United States and the U.S.R.R. renewed a voluntary export restraint agreement on textiles limiting the volume of products the U.S.S.R. may export to the United States. The three-year agreement covers cotton textiles and textile prod- ucts falling under Category 313/315 of United States Harmonized Tariff Schedules. Under a two-year pact, the United States lifted import quotas on most Japanese textiles. The United States would no longer apply overall import quotas on yarns, fabrics, and made-up items. How- ever, the total volume of clothing Japan could export to the United States in 1990-91 was reduced by nearly one four th. January 5. Poland was added to the list of coun- tries benefiting under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP). January 11. The Commerce Department deter- mined that the Government of Thailand was sub- sidizing exports of carbon steel butt-weld pipe fit- tings at an estimated subsidy rate of 2.53 percent. January 17. An additional 325,000 metric tons of sugar were allocated to countries eligible for the U.S. sugar import quota program. January 18. The United States and the European Community (EC) concluded an agreement with re- gard to EC export restrictions on copper and copper alloy scrap. The EC agreed not to reimpose export restrictions in 1990, and agreed that the present market situation for the products does not necessi- tate or jus t ify a renewal of quotas. On the basis of this agreement, the United States withdrew its complaint under a GATT dispute settlement panel, and on February 26, 1990, withdrew the petition filed under Section 302 of the 1974 Trade Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 527 January 22. The United States International Trade Commission (USITC) determined that imports of residential door locks from Taiwan Province of China do not materially injure or threaten injury to the U.S. industry. The USITC determined that imports of telephone systems and subassemblies from the Republic of Korea were materially injuring, or threatening ma- terial injury, to the U.S. industry. February 1. The USITC determined that imports of mechanical transfer presses from Japan were injur- ing, or threatening material injury, to the U.S. industry. February 7. The United States decided to lift trade restrictions in force against Czechoslovakia, includ- ing the Jackson-Vanik Amendment to the 1974 trade act, paving the way for the granting of MFN status and eligibility for the U.S. government export credit program. February 12. The Commerce Department affirmed that Japanese manufacturers of forklift trucks were not circumventing a 1988 antidumping duty order by importing the trucks in parts for assembly by U.S. subsidiaries. February 28. The USITC determined that there was no reasonable indication that U.S. industry was materially injured, or threatened with material in- jury, by imports of pressure-sensitive polyvinyl bat- tery covers from Germany. The United States and Canada reached agree- ment on an interim settlement of the dispute re- garding Canadian restrictions on the export of salmon and herring. Under the agreement, U.S. buyers would be permitted to purchase a stipulated percentage of roe herring and salmon directly from Canadian fishing grounds. Roe herring shipped to the United States would have to be processed before being re-exported to third countries, to the same extent as required under Canadian domestic law. The agreement was the outcome of an October 1989 Free Trade Agreement (FTA) dispute panel ruling that Canada's landing regulations on these species of fish were incompatible with its obligations under Article 407 of the FTA. March 1. Panama's eligibility for duty-free benefits under the GSP and the Caribbean Basin Initiative, which had been suspended in 1988, was restored. March 29. The USITC terminated its antidumping investigation of limousines imported from Canada upon request from the petitioning U.S. industry; earlier, the Commerce Department determined that the limousines from Canada were being sold in the United States at less than fair value, with a dumping margin of 5.78 percent. March 30. Under the Multifiber Agreement, the United States and Thailand renewed for one year restraints on cotton sheeting and printcloth imports from Thailand. April 1. The Commerce Department reversed its preliminary decision and determined that imports of computer-aided software engineering products from Singapore were not subsidized. Japan's Ministry of International Trade and In- dustry announced that Japan would continue its current voluntary export restraint on automobile exports to the United States. Automobile exports would be limited to 2.3 million units a year for the fiscal year 1990, beginning on April 1. It was announced that tariffs on more than $6 billion in trade between Canada and the United States would be eliminated sooner than called for under the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement. Early removal of duties on more than four hundred tariff items would require the approval of both governments. April 16. The administration allowed shipments of iron and steel from South Africa to enter the United States. April 23. The USITC determined that the U.S. industry was not being injured materially, or threat- ened by material injury, by imports of certain steel pails from Mexico; in March, the Commerce Depart- ment had ruled that these steel pails from Mexico were being sold in the United States at less than fair value at a weighted-dumping margin of 75.57 per- cent. April 25. The USITC determined that there was no reasonable indication of material injury to the U.S. industry by imports of electromechanical digital counters from Brazil, which were alleged to have been sold at less than fair value. April 27. The overall U.S. sugar import quota level was raised by about 9.5 percent to 2,834,865 metric tons from 2,584,865 metric tons. Previous increases were introduced in September and November 1989 and in January 1990. The quota period, which ran from January 1, 1989 to September 30, 1990, re- mained unchanged. The United States restored Nicaragua's eligibility for the U.S. sugar import quota program, revising its 2.1 percent quota share (54,328 metric tons) as part of a new increase in the overall sugar import quota. May 1. Under the Andean initiative, U.S. imports from Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru worth $44.3 million in 1989 were given duty-free status on an accelerated schedule. String beans, frozen mango, flour, other cereal mix, yellow potatoes, and marigold powder were added to the product list. May 10. In a case involving the classification of goods imported from Brazil as footwear with plastic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 UNITED STATES shoe soles, the U.S. Court of International Trade determined that the Customs Service had properly classified imports as other footwear under item 700.60 TSUS, dutiable at a 20 percent ad valorem rate. May 25. The second round of accelerated tariff removal under the U.S.-Canada FTA took place. Under Presidential Proclamation 6142, a large num- ber of Canadian goods would be accorded duty-free or reduced-duty status earlier than originally scheduled. A binational panel under the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement found that U.S. federal rules on the minimum size of Canadian and U.S. lobsters marketed in the United States (imposed under 1989 amendments to the Magnuson Fishery Conserva- tion and Management Act) did not constitute re- strictions on trade. June 19. The USITC determined that imports of industrial nitrocellulose from Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Germany, Japan, the Republic of Korea, and the United Kingdom were causing mate- rial injury to the U.S. industry. As a result, the Commerce Department would impose duties. In May, the Commerce Department had determined that imports from these countries were being sold at less than fair value. The estimated weighted- average dumping margins were: Brazil, 61.25 per- cent; the People's Republic of China, 78.4 percent; Germany, 3.84 percent; Japan, 66.0 percent; the Re- public of Korea, 66.3 percent; and the United King- dom, 11.13 percent. June 20. The USITC determined that there was no reasonable indication of material injury to the U.S. industry by imports of polyethylene terephthalate from Taiwan Province of China, which were alleged to have been sold at less than fair value. June 29. The Commerce Department pre- liminarily determined that imports of Norwegian Atlantic salmon were being subsidized and ordered estimated countervailing duties of 2.45 percent. July 1. The annual review of the GSP program by the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR), announced in April 1990, became effective. On the basis of the review, the following actions were taken: (1) The USTR GSP benefits would ex- pand to nearly $2.4 billion in 1989 imports. Thirty- three products accounting for $33.4 million in 1989 imports were added to the program, while $1.24 bil- lion in imports were removed from it. Of the total removed, $1.22 billion of the products were from countries that exceeded their competitive needs limits in 1989, and the remainder represented prod- ucts that were removed from GSP eligibility in re- sponse to petitions filed by U.S. industry and trade associations, or because of statutory program re- quirements. Waivers from competitive needs limits were granted for imports totaling $998 million; $353 million were under the de minimis provisions of the program. (2) GSP benefits were established for products worth $1.37 billion that were pre- viously ineligible. Bahrain was reinstated as a GSP beneficiary for all eligible products (Bahrain had been removed from eligibility in 1988, when its per capita GNP exceeded the GSP limits). In addition, GSP benefits were reinstated for several products from Brazil, bringing the total value of products reinstated to $1.7 billion. (3) The expansion and distribution of GSP benefits in the 1990 annual re- view reflected a change in the administration of the program made possible by the graduation of the four Asian newly industrializing economies (NIEs) from the program on January 1,1989 (noted above). The previous policy of routinely denying redesigna- tion to all products from the seven principal GSP beneficiaries (including the four Asian NIEs) was changed to allow the three remaining in the pro- gram (Brazil, Israel, and Mexico) to be treated on the same basis as all other beneficiaries in redesignation decisions. (4) As part of the annual review, it was announced that of the eight countries whose labor practices have been challenged by U.S. labor and human rights groups as not meeting GSP require- ments, one country—Liberia—will have its benefits indefinitely suspended. Two countries—Indonesia and Thailand —were found to meet the program's eligibility standards. Reviews of the remaining five countries—Benin, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Ne- pal, and Syrian Arab Republic—would be extended for one year. The Commerce Department determined that sweaters made from man-made fibers in Hong Kong were being sold at less than fair value in the United States. The company-specific weighted average dumping margins were calculated to be 5.86 per- cent for most companies. July 2. The 100 percent retaliatory duties on im- ports of paper products, consumer electronics, and Pharmaceuticals from Brazil were lifted in response to Brazil's announcement that it would introduce legislation to protect pharmaceutical patents by March 1991. July 3. The United States and the EC agreed that their reciprocal rights and obligations under the GATT would be maintained and that safeguard measures pertaining to dried grapes, covered by Article XIX:3(a), should be considered to expire on July 3, 1990. July 23. As part of a package of measures aimed at expanding economic opportunities for Andean coun- tries, the U.S. administration granted preferential ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 529 trade treatment under the GSP to 67 products from the Andean countries. August 6. Pursuant to a court order, the USITC determined that the welded stainless steel pipe and tube industry was being injured by Swedish im- ports that were being sold at less than fair value. August 13. A binational panel set up under the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement upheld a 94 percent countervailing duty imposed on Cana- dian steel rails. The USITC determined that imports from Mexico of gray portland cement and cement clinker were being sold at less than fair value, thus causing mate- rial injury to the U.S. industry. August 21. The Commerce Department deter- mined that imports of multi-angle laser light- scattering instruments from Japan were being sold at less than fair value. A company-specific, weighted-average dumping margin of 129.71 per- cent was estimated. On October 23, the USITC de- termined that dumping was causing injury to the U.S. industry and that antidumping duties would be assessed. September 4. The USITC determined that sweaters made from man-made fibers in the Republic of Korea and Taiwan Province of China that were being sold at less than fair value were causing material injury to the U.S. industry. For the Republic of Korea, company-specific, weighted-average dump- ing margins would range from 0.73 percent to 3.17 percent; and for Taiwan Province of China, company-specific, weighted-average dumping margins would range from 4.74 percent to 24.02 percent. September 6. The USITC held that the U.S. Customs Service incorrectly classified ceramic steins imported from Brazil as "mugs and other steins" (with duty assessed at the rate of 13.5 per- cent ad valorem), and determined that the correct classification is "art and ornamental articles" (duty free under the GSP). September 14. The United States signed a proc- lamation authorizing conversion of the U.S. sugar import quota program covering Australia and the EC into a tariff rate quota system, which will assign a 16 cent tariff for every pound of sugar entering the United States over traditional quota levels, thereby bringing the program into compliance with the GATT. October 1. The United States restored the "injury test" to New Zealand subsequent to the latter's elimination of its last remaining export subsidy pro- gram on September 30, 1990. The injury test had been denied to New Zealand in 1985, because of its failure to comply with U.S. obligations, under the Subsidies Code and a bilateral agreement to elimi- nate export subsidies. The United States announced that the U.S. Customs and Trade Act of 1990, signed into law on August 20, 1990, contained a provision that had brought the U.S. customs users fee affecting Can- ada and the EC into conformity with the GATT. October 22. The USITC ruled that industrial nitro- cellulose imports from Yugoslavia were causing in- jury to the U.S. industry. On August 22, the Com- merce Department had estimated a company- specific, weighted-average dumping margin of 10.81 percent, and antidumping duties would be assessed. October 23. In its first proceedings under Arti- cle 1905 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement, the USITC determined that the U.S. fresh, chilled, and frozen pork industry was threatened by sub- sidized imports from Canada. November 5. The U.S. Customs Service ruled that imports of footwear made in the Dominican Re- public from U.S. materials were entitled to duty- free treatment, as interpreted by Caribbean Basin Initiative, which grants duty-free status for certain products assembled in beneficiary countries. November 13. The import quota on cotton comber waste was suspended indefinitely by Proclamation 6228. December 17. The USITC determined that imports of steel and wire rope from Israel were not causing material injury to the U.S. industry. The USITC determined that imports of personal word processors from Singapore were not causing material injury to the U.S. industry. Exports and Export Proceeds January 22. The United States agreed to lift gov- ernment restrictions on exports of wire bonders to the U.S.S.R. and other Eastern European countries. A proposal to remove these machines from the list of controlled products was submitted to Coordinat- ing Committe for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM). January 31. The USTR office terminated unfair trade practice investigation of the EC's subsidy pay- ments to oilseed producers following agreement by the EC to accept a GATT panel finding issued on January 25, 1990 that the policies violated GATT rules and to implement the panel's recommenda- tion by the 1991 marketing year. February 5. The Commerce Department abolished controls on exports of U.S. equipment and technol- ogy to two truck manufacturing plants in the U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 530 UNITED STATES February 27. The United States reached agree- ment with Austria, Finland, and Yugoslavia, under which the three countries agreed to end practices that distort trade in steel and to cooperate in the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations. March 21. The United States and the Republic of Korea settled a dispute regarding the latter's restric- tions on imports of beef. The Republic of Korea gave its commitment to bring its beef import restrictions in line with the GATT or fully liberalize its beef market by 1997. In addition, the Republic of Korea established minimum import quota levels, which would provide growth over the 1989 quota and trade volumes. The agreement also required a system to provide direct access between buyers and sellers in the Korean market. The accord implemented a GATT dispute panel ruling issued in May 1989, and adopted in November 1989, that Korea's import re- strictions on beef were contrary to the GATT and were not justified for balance of payments reasons. The signing of the agreement terminated a Sec- tion 302 investigation, which had been initiated in March 1988. April 2. The Commerce Department announced it would no longer require export licenses for certain low-capacity hard disk drives shipped to most allied countries. Validated export licenses would continue to be required for shipments of hard disk drives to Eastern European countries. April 9. The Commerce Department announced that export controls would be imposed on solid pro- pellant batch mixers. April 16. The Commerce Department announced that polycrystalline silicon would no longer be cov- ered by export controls (except shipments to Afghanistan and the People's Republic of China). April 25. The United States and Japan reached an agreement, in principle, on removing Japanese im- port restrictions on processed forest products. Un- der the agreement, Japan would reform its system of tariffs and product certification and procedures on product standards and would modify building codes. Laminated wood products would be shifted to a lower tariff classification, effective June 1,1990, cutting duties to 3.9 percent from 20 percent. (This resolved the last dispute under the Super 301 provision.) April 26. The United States and Norway reached an agreement involving the procurement of elec- tronic toll collection equipment by the Government of Norway. The Norwegian Government undertook to offset the effect of its procurement practices on U.S. suppliers and agreed to take steps to ensure that fu ture procurements would be carried out in accordance with the GATT Procurement Code. In response, the United States terminated the GATT dispute settlement and Section 301a procedures. April 27. The USTR identified two priority prac- tices in India under the Super 301 provision of the 1988 Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act. The practices identified were barriers to trade in ser- vices, specifically the insurance market and trade- related investment measures concerning foreign in- vestment in India. April 30. The Buy American Act of 1988 went into effect. It required the United States to identify coun- tries that discriminate against U.S. suppliers. Countries that do not eliminate identified restric- tions would be subject to sanctions on procurement by the U.S. Government, beginning June 30, 1990. May 21. The USTR terminated investigation of Brazil's import restrictions as a result of Brazil's deci- sion on May 7 to eliminate quantitative import re- strictions and to abolish import prohibitions on items that were designated under the provisions of Super 301 in 1989. June 1. The United States and the U.S.S.R. signed a five-year agreement (ending December 31, 1995) to increase U.S. grain exports to the U.S.S.R. The U.S.S.R. would be required to purchase at least 10 million metric tons of grain a year, instead of 9 million tons under the current pact, which had been in effect since 1983. The agreement specified quan- tities of wheat and feedgrain that Soviet foreign economic organizations would purchase from pri- vate commercial enterprises in each 12-month period beginning January 1,1991, with provision for mutual notification should these limits be exceeded. June 15. The United States and Japan imple- mented an agreement to open Japan's satellite, su- percomputer, and processed forest product mar- kets. The arrangement terminated the USTR's review of Japan's alleged trade barriers in these sectors. For supercomputers, Japan agreed to seek adequate funding for purchases, use practical benchmarks to select among machines, and provide an effective procedure for handling complaints. For satellites, Japan agreed to a policy that would open government procurement of all satellites, except satellites used for genuine research and develop- ment purposes. On processed forest products, Japan agreed to streamline the system for recogniz- ing imported wood quality marks, to accept foreign grading organizations' testing methodologies that are equivalent to Japanese tests, and to resolve cer- tain product-specific standards problems. Japan also agreed to revise its building codes and to re- classify certain structural laminated wood products for tariff purposes. July 2. U.S. companies were no longer required to obtain individual export licenses for sales of high- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 531 technology equipment to 16 major U.S. trading partners, which include Canada, France, Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom. As a result, licens- ing requirements on exports of about $30 billion exports a year were eliminated. August 1. The United States relaxed controls on exports of high-technology equipment to Austria, allowing U.S. exporters to ship these products to Austria without a license. Exporters would also be allowed to sell a large number of advanced compu- ters under single distribution licenses. August 20. The Bureau of Export Administration announced that Namibia would be exempted from U.S. export controls and classified in Country Group V (controls had been imposed in accordance with the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986 because Namibia was part of South Africa). A law banning exports of timber from federal lands on the West Coast and allowing the state of Washington to reduce annual log exports by 75 per- cent came into effect. August 31. Export controls on a wide range of goods and technology, including semiconductors, semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and laser technology, were relaxed. These measures were in addition to the relaxation of export-licensing requirements agreed at a COCOM meeting in June 1990. September 21. The United States and Japan reached an agreement, under which Japan would purchase a limited amount of U.S. technology in amorphous metals. September 30. An executive order was issued, ex- tending the system of export controls contained in the Export Administration Act (due to expire on September 30, 1990). November 27. The Department of Commerce an- nounced a relaxation of regulations on exports and re-exports for purposes of exhibitions and demon- strations. Goods must be returned to the country of export no later than one year from export date, but may be shipped without prior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. The exchange rate system is operated as a managed float. The Central Bank buys and sells only at the higher and lower limits of a 2 percent band, and allows the rate to float freely within these limits. Buying and selling interbank rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on Decem- ber 31, 1990 were NUr$l,593.0 and NUr$l,594.0, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. A tax of 2.0 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange in both the spot and forward exchange markets if a transaction is settled in Uruguayan new pesos; the tax rate is 0.05 percent for sales of foreign exchange through interbank operations. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Export proceeds are required to be negotiated in the banking system. (The term "negotiate" means that export proceeds may be converted into other currencies or used to pay off obligations or generate other assets.) There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the Bank of the Republic, the Mortgage Bank, commercial banks, and financial and ex- change houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 2, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, financial houses, exchange houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market, provided this does not become a customary business. Exchange houses must also be authorized by the Central Bank. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Uruguay notified the Fund, on December 6, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and to persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agreements may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ec- uador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in spec- ified goods with Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other countries. There is a similar arrange- ment with Cuba, but settlements are effected in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration before the goods are shipped. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are within a range of 15-40 per- cent and are payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for imports from member countries of the LAIA, imports of agri- cultural inputs, imports by the public sector, im- ports of machinery, equipment, tools, and spare parts for certain priority industries, and imports under the temporary admission scheme. The Bank of the Republic also collects a consular charge of 4 percent on the f .o .b. value of imports, with certain exemptions. Most imports are also subject to a customs tariff (impuesto aduanero unico, IMADUNI) and a service charge (tasa de movilizacion de bultos, TMB), collected by the Customs Office. Tariff rates vary between zero and 15 percent. The service charge is 1 percent of the c . i .f. import price for most imports. There are exemptions to IMADUNI and TMB. The combined tariff rate (tasa global arancelaria, TGA), which in- cludes surcharges, customs tariffs, consular fees, and service charges, is limited to a maximum of 40 percent, and there are four rate categories: 10,20, 30, and 40 percent. With effect from April 18, 1990, each of the three lower rate categories was raised, as 532 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 533 a temporary revenue-raising measure, by 5 per- centage points until September 1, 1991. Some items have officially assessed prices, which may be either reference prices (precios de referenda) or minimum export prices (precios minimos de expor- tation). In both cases, the TGA is calculated on the assessed price or on the actual c . i .f. price, which- ever is higher. In the latter case, there is an addi- tional surcharge (recargo movil) equal to the dif- ference between the minimum export price and the c . i .f. price. In all other cases, the TCA is calculated on the c .i .f. price. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for invis- ibles or the exportation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be negotiated in the banking system not later than 36 months after the date on which shipment is re- quested. From time to time, and for special reasons (e.g., stock position, protection, or sanitary consid- erations), certain exports are prohibited or are sub- ject to special conditions. Some traditional exports, such as meat (mutton, beef, and horse), greasy wool (scoured and semi- scoured), dry, salted, and pickled hides, and live- stock on the hoof (except pedigree or pure crossbred), are subject to an export tax at the rate of 5 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the pro- ceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the importation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relating to investments regis- tered under the Foreign Investment Law. The amor- tization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be trans- ferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not below 0.9 in Uruguay or abroad. Gold for industrial purposes is subject to the general policy governing the exportation, importation, and trading of goods. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments January 12. The period of exemption established by Decree 254/89 for the tariff rate on imports of bovine cattle fats was extended until May 31, 1990. January 29. Decree 13/90, stipulating that refunds of taxes paid on merchandise imports under the drawback regulations be made in domestic cur- rency, came into effect. February 2. Decree 127/90 and its amendments (488/90 of 10/26/90 and 512/90 of 11/8/90), exempting from the overall tariff rate imports of irrigation equipment intended exclusively for agricultural production, came into effect. February 2. Decree 81/90, amending the regula- tions on the annual accredited compensatory export programs of enterprises importing vehicle kits or vehicles assembled in the country of origin, came into effect. March 30. Decree 160/90, extending until Decem- ber 31, 1990 the exemption of tar iffs on imports of industrial machinery and equipment for quarrying and processing marble and granite, came into effect. April 18. Decree 179/90, amending combined tar- iff rates (TGA) on goods with a maximum rate of 10 percent, 20 percent, 30 percent, and 40 percent came into effect. At the same time, the rates on three lower rate categories were increased by 5 per- centage points until September 1, 1991. Rails or netting for protection against various cli- matic effects, birds, and so on were added to the exemptions established under Decree 194/79. October 29. Decree 494/90, banning for 180 days imports of chassis and automobile bodies under certain conditions, came into effect. Exports and Export Proceeds March 30. Decree 159/90 reducing incentive pay- ments on processed wool exports by 2 percentage points as of June 1, 1990 and by an additional 2 per- centage points as of January 1, 1991, came into effect. April 4. The exemptions and other incentives es- tablished under Decree 381/86 were extended until December 31, 1990. Decree 180/90, repealing all regulations concern- ing refunding indirect taxes on exports, came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 URUGUAY June 7. Decree 320/90, excluding metal from the export ban under Decrees 312/72 and 544/80, came into effect. June 27. The ban on exports of salted, pickled, and wet-blue bovine cattle hides was revoked. September 19. Decree 430/90, reducing the incen- tive payments on processed wool by 2 percentage points by July 1, 1991, and by an additional 2 per- centage points by July 1, 1992, came into effec t. October 29. The regulations on exports of salted, pickled, and wet-blue bovine cattle hides were announced. November 14. The regulations for fixing benchmark and minimum export prices were amended, establishing specific time limits for the measures to be taken by businessmen and manufac- turers who consider themselves affected by unfair foreign trade practices. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanuatu is the Vatu. Since Feb- ruary 5,1988, the external value of the vatu has been determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions-weighted basket of currencies. The Re- serve Bank of Vanuatu buys and sells foreign ex- change daily, and buying and selling rates of the vatu against major currencies (Australian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and New Zealand dollars) are quoted within margins of 0.25 percent around the middle rate. The Reserve Bank deals with the commercial banks only in U.S. dollars on a spot basis, and buys and sells foreign exchange only in transactions with the com- mercial banks for account of the Government or for commercial banks' operations. On December 31, 1990, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 109.02 and VT 109.53 per US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange rate cover facilities operating in the official sector. As a rule, the commercial banks also do not provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Vanuatu formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 1, 1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments All items may be freely imported with the excep- tion of the following: any goods that are controlled under internal legislation in the interest of national health and well-being, such as arms and ammuni- tions, explosives, and dangerous drugs; and certain plants, foodstuffs, and animals, which are also re- stricted and subject to authorization. The importa- tion of chicken pieces, canned soft drinks, and T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif are restricted through import licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of five basic products—rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and to- bacco products —under a scheme designed to provide funds for the National Cooperative Federa- tion. Three importers pay a commission fee to the Cooperative for the right to import these five products. Customs duties are levied mainly on an ad val- orem basis on the c . i . f. value of imports. Certain goods, including spirits, wine, beer, tobacco prod- ucts, and petroleum products, are subject to specific rates of import duty. Imported goods that compete with locally produced equivalents are generally lia- ble to high duty rates. A customs service tax of 5 percent is applied to most imports based on the duty-inclusive import value. Goods imported for a specified end-use may be exempt from import duties. These include goods imported by or on behalf of the Government that are funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships' stores (including fuels), goods imported for processing and re- exportation, and goods imported for investment projects. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, no restrictions are applied on exports. Exports of trochus, green snails, beches- de-mer, and crustaceans1 are subject to authoriza- tion by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. Copra and cocoa exports are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB), and exports of coffee are subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts that are five years old or more are subject to authorization from the Cultural Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis (f.o.b.); specific duties are levied on some minor exports, including scrap metal and timber. There are no surrender require- ments for export proceeds. 1 Including coconut crabs for conservation purposes. 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 536 VANUATU Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions, Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. Changes During 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar. Venezuela maintains a unified, interbank exchange system under which the currency is al- lowed to float in response to market forces. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The Central Bank participates in the interbank market at the prevailing market-determined exchange rate; its foreign exchange sales are conducted so as to main- tain both an orderly development in the interbank market and its net international reserve targets. The Central Bank quotes daily reference exchange rates for the bolivar in terms of the U.S. dollar, which are the modes of the buying and selling rates at the closing of the interbank market. The country's largest exporter, the state-owned Petroleum Corpor- ation (PDVSA) and its affiliates, is obliged to sell to the Central Bank its foreign exchange earnings, ex- cept for those needed to maintain working balances at a level pre-approved by the Central Bank Direc- torate. The Central Bank enters into agreement with PDVSA on the amount to be bought at the average interbank selling rate minus 10 centavos. The Central Bank's reference exchange rate applies to official foreign exchange transactions, other than with PDVSA, that must be effected through the Central Bank, which mainly include disbursements and debt-service payments associated with public and publicly guaranteed external debt and imports of goods and services by the Central Government. The reference rate of the Central Bank on Decem- ber 31,1990 was Bs 50.54 per US$1. All other current and capital transactions are effected through the interbank foreign exchange market at the unified, market-determined rate. Resident commercial banks and exchange houses are designated as authorized foreign exchange dealers. Exchange houses are allowed to deal only in narrowly defined cash (currency notes, coins, and traveler's checks) and are not authorized to hold or trade in foreign currency deposits. Resident com- mercial banks are allowed to hold foreign exchange deposits, sell such deposits to, and buy them from, other commercial banks, and purchase foreign cur- rency personal checks. Sales of foreign exchange by authorized dealers to nonresident corporations, ex- cept to correspondent banks, are prohibited. Tour- ism establishments are allowed to offer their clients foreign exchange services in the form of purchases and sales of foreign currency notes, coins, and trav- eler's checks. Cover against exchange risk is provided through forward foreign exchange contracts negotiated freely between participants in the interbank market without the intervention of the Central Bank. How- ever, as of the end of 1990, the forward foreign exchange market remained underdeveloped mainly as a result of limitations affecting the domestic fi- nancial markets. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on July 1, 1976. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Within the guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Fi- nance, the Central Bank Directory regulates and supervises the foreign exchange activities of autho- rized dealers. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Defense, or the Ministry of Foreign Rela- tions, depending on the product. The Superintendancy of Foreign Investment (SIEX), attached to the Ministry of Finance, over- sees the registration of foreign direct investments, contracts involving technology transfers, and the use of foreign patents and trademarks. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Vene- zuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Arms and ammunition may be imported only by the Gov- ernment. Some imports, irrespective of country of origin, are subject to licensing control for environ- mental, health, or security reasons. At the end of 1990, import licenses aimed at protecting domestic industries covered 320 manufactured import items 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 VENEZUELA (or 5 percent of all manufactured import items in the Tariff Code), including 120 luxury goods and 200 agro-industrial products; however, it was estimated that less than 5 percent of manufacturing produc- tion was protected. Quantitative restrictions also apply to a number of agricultural imports. Pay- ments for imports can be effected freely through the interbank market. Imports are normally financed with 90-day letters of credit opened at a domestic commercial bank or with suppliers7 credits. Customs tariffs on manufactured goods are mostly on an ad valorem basis; there are five rates, with a maximum rate of 50 percent.1 Some specific tariffs apply to agricultural products and to certain products included in Chapter 27 of the Tariff Code (corresponding to mineral fuels, oil, mineral wax, distilled products, and bituminous substances). Ex- emptions from customs tariffs apply only to the products in the "basic basket," consisting of 16 es- sential consumer goods2 and to articles imported entirely for assembly in Venezuela (C.K.D. regime).3 In addition to customs tariffs, all imports are sub- ject to customs service charges assessed on an ad valorem basis. These charges are 5 percent for arti- cles imported by air, land, and sea, and 2 percent for articles imported in postal packages. Storage charges apply to imports that remain in customs warehouses for more than 12 days. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the Free Port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that includes exemptions from customs tar iffs. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the interbank market without limit, except that an annual ceiling applies to dividend remit- tances on direct foreign investment in nonpriority areas associated with debt-to-equity conversion schemes (see section on Capital, below). A fee of Bs 900 is charged to travelers leaving Venezuela for business purposes; the fee for tourists and children under the age of 12 is Bs 505. aThe timetable of the Trade Reform calls for a reduction by March 1991 of the maximum tariff on manufacturing sector im- ports to 40 percent and of the number of rates to four. 2Wheat flour, edible food products made from wheat, table rice, precooked maize flour, canned sardines, powdered milk, refined or brown sugar, mixed vegetable oil, pasteurized semi- fa t ty white cheese, pulses, infant formulas, dehydrated soups, essential medicines, type C toilet paper, fertilizers, and urban and intercity passenger transportation vehicles. 3The timetable of the Trade Reform calls for the elimination of customs tariff exemptions for articles under the C.K.D. regime by early 1991. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. There are no other controls or restrictions on exports, except for products included in the "basic basket" and certain goods specified by the Government for rea- sons of public interest.4 With the exception of the export earnings of PDVSA and its affiliates, export proceeds are not subject to surrender requirements and may be sold freely in the interbank market. Exports containing domestic value added of 30 percent or more are entitled to a fiscal credit in the form of a negotiable bond issued by the Ministry of Finance. These bonds may be used for the pay- ment of taxes. The tax credit is equal to 5 percent of the f .o.b. value for manufactured exports and 6 per- cent for agricultural exports. PDVSA and Ferrominera Orinoco have the mo- nopoly on the exportation of hydrocarbons and iron ore, respectively. The National Funds for Coffee and Cocoa, which are autonomous institutions attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, have the monopoly on the exportation of coffee and co- coa, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to sur- render requirements. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coins other than gold coins is prohibited. Capital Direct foreign investments in the petroleum and iron ore sectors are prohibited. Mass media, com- munications, Spanish printing presses, and se- curity services are reserved for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX; ex post registration with the SIEX is required, and approval is automatically granted if the new investment is consistent with national leg- islation. Foreign enterprises may establish subsid- iaries in Venezuela without prior authorization as long as they are consistent with the Commerce Code; the SIEX must, however, be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsidiaries. The reinvestment of profits does not require prior authorization and is not restricted. There are no restrictions on dividend remittances or on the re- patriation of capital, provided that all domestic 4The list of articles subject to export licenses includes certain agricultural products (milk, green peas, lentils, dry beans, rice, and maize), prepared and canned sardines, saccharose, sugar, uranium and thorium minerals, metallic minerals, and fertilizers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 539 taxes have been paid, except that capital repatriation in respect of investments associated with debt-to- equity conversions is not allowed for the first five years following registration and is subject to an an- nual maximum of 12.5 percent of the registered investment during the next eight years. Foreign in- vestors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange but must inform the SIEX of such purchases within 60 working days. The operation of an auction-based system for the conversion of public external debt into equity was suspended in late 1990, when a special debt-equity conversion regime for large investment projects ("mega projects") was formally introduced. A pro- ject may qualify for this regime if it involves a total investment of at least US$150 million and is in one of the following five areas: petrochemical, aluminum, pulp and paper, tourism, and infrastructure. Indi- vidual investments in tourism could be less than US$150 million (but not less than US$50 million) and must involve the construction of "five-star" hotels. The minimum investment in infrastructure is deter- mined by the President of the Republic. External public debt may be converted into equity to finance at least 30 percent of the total investment under a given project. In the tourism sector, this proportion could be as high as 50 percent; in in- frastructure, no requirement is imposed on this pro- portion, and the proportion is left to the discretion of the President. The discount to be applied by the Central Bank of Venezuela to retire eligible external debt instru- ments (i.e., New Money, Par, Discount, and Front- Loaded Interest Reduction Bonds) is equivalent to at least 15 percent of the face value of New Money Bonds—except those New Money Bonds eligible for debt-equity conversion at par.5 The Central Bank is instructed to determine the equivalencies between the various eligible debt instruments, because they trade at different discounts with respect to face value in the secondary market. The minimum dis- count of 15 percent is not binding for large projects in infrastructure, where it could be less and is left to the discretion of the President. To effect a debt conversion, the Central Bank pur- chases the external debt with domestic currency (or domestic currency-denominated public debt se- curities), which is then deposited into a trust ac- count opened by the investor with a fiduciary agent (normally a commercial bank) in Venezuela. The agent is responsible for ensuring the proper use of 5Under the 1990 agreement with commercial bank creditors, 50 percent of Series B and Series A-2 New Money Bonds may be converted into equity at par. the trust account and releases the funds in step with the implementation of the investment project. (As part of the required documentation, investors must submit in advance a timetable for the investment and its "domestic component" to be financed through debt conversion). To further ensure the proper use of the conversion proceeds, investors must deposit with a fiduciary agent a guarantee (equivalent to 5 percent of the total investment), which can be reduced in line with the implementa- tion of the investment. There are no restrictions on conversions of private external debt into private domestic debt or equity; these conversions may be effected freely through the interbank market. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment purposes. Gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized travelers, ex- change houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold and imports of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela are reserved for the Central Bank. Imports and exports of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and of gold coins eligible as legal tender in Venezuela or abroad are subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. In addition, imports may require licenses from the Central Bank and, in some cases, from the Ministry of Development. The Central Bank may authorize private exporters to export gold bars, provided that such exports are re-imported following transforma- tion processes not available in the country and that the re-imported gold is used as an input in domestic production. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payment May 15. The maximum tariff rate on manufac- tured goods was reduced to 50 percent from 80 per- cent, and the range of tariff rates was reduced to five from ten. Quantitative restrictions on nearly three hundred manufactured import items were elimi- nated; quantitative restrictions were also removed on a number of agricultural products. The import tariff rates on major agricultural product groups (accounting for about 45 percent of agricultural out- put) were reduced to 30 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 VENEZUELA Exports and Export Proceeds August 4. The tax incentive for exports, consisting of a negotiable bond that may be used for payment of taxes, was reduced to 5 percent of the f .o.b. value for manufactured products and to 6 percent for agricultural products. Capital January 5. The foreign direct investment regime was substantially liberalized by Decree No. 727. The main features of Decree No. 727 are the elimination of the need for prior authorizations for investment and the lifting of restrictions on foreign investment in certain sectors. (The only sectors that remain reserved for domestic investors are petroleum and iron ore exploration, finance security services, and news media.) The decree also allows foreign firms to open subsidiaries in Venezuela to contract tech- nology without restriction, to invest in the Venezu- elan security and stock exchanges, and to obtain financing through shares or debt notes in the Vene- zuelan capital markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on January 1, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Viet Nam is the Dong. The ex- change rate of the Dong is quoted in terms of the U.S. dollar by the State Bank of Viet Nam. Adjust- ments to the exchange rate, aimed at maintaining the spread with the parallel market exchange rate within a range of 10-20 percent, are made at irregu- lar intervals in light of developments in the parallel foreign exchange market, the domestic price of gold, internal commodity prices, and international prices. The Bank for Foreign Trade (BFT) deter- mines exchange rates for other convertible curren- cies on the basis of prevailing cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned. Banks are authorized to set exchange rates up to a max- imum of 5 percent above the official exchange rate, and may set a spread of 2 percent between the buying and selling rates. During 1990, the official exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was ad- justed five times, and on January 1,1991, the official exchange rate was D 7,000 = US$1.1 There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the State Bank of Viet Nam. Foreign trade is administered by the Ministry of Trade, which supervises the opera- tions carried out by the Foreign Trade Organizations (FTOs) and firms with direct foreign trading rights. Import and export licenses, which are required for all trade transactions, are issued by the Ministry of Trade. FTOs and firms engaged in international trade must submit annual plans for their imports and exports, which must be approved by the State Planning Committee; however, revisions of the plans may be requested every three months. Settle- ments of international trade transactions, borrow- ing, and management of foreign assets are carried 1 Until December 31,1990, most of Viet Nam's trade and finan- cial settlements with the other members of the Council for Mu- tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) (Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and, formerly, the German Democratic Republic) were effected in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Since January 1,1991, these settlements have been effected freely in convertible currencies. out mainly by the BFT.2 Most grants in convertible currencies from bilateral official donors and interna- tional organizations are under the supervision of the Committee for Reception and Management of Aid, an agency attached to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign investment is monitored and coordinated by the State Committee for Cooperation and Investment. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Most transactions with the U.S.S.R. are chan- neled through the state budget. The Ministry of Finance carries out most payments with the U.S.S.R. and is responsible for managing the com- modity and project assistance received from it. Trade transactions with Albania, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are settled through individual clearing accounts using clearing (or bilateral) rubles. Transactions with the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic are settled under a bilateral pay- ments arrangement; the balance of transactions be- tween the two countries is determined every quarter and settled in U.S. dollars at the end of each year. Transactions with Democratic Kampuchea are settled under a clearing arrangement in domestic currencies at a bilaterally agreed exchange rate of D 12 per KR1. Although bilateral payments agree- ments also exist with Mali and the Syrian Arab Republic, they have been inoperative for some years. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain Nonresi- dent Accounts either in foreign currencies or in convertible dong; however, they may not open interest-yielding bank accounts in dong. Nonresi- dents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese cur- rency that have been acquired against foreign cur- rency. Vietnamese citizens are allowed to sell for- eign exchange in their possession to banks, or to 2In 1990, the following three small banks were also authorized to carry out international transactions: Saigon Bank for Industry and Trade, EXIM Bank, and Bank for Industry and Commerce of Ho Chi Minh City. 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 542 VIET NAM deposit it into interest-bearing foreign currency bank accounts. Foreign currency deposited in a bank may be withdrawn for payments or trans- ferred to other units or individuals. Imports and Exports Import and export activities are regulated by De- cision No. 64, of the Council of Ministers of June 10, 1989. Import and export plans are drawn up an- nually on the basis of the overall annual economic plan and of bilateral trade agreements with CMEA countries. In 1990, the role of these plans was sharply reduced, and frequent revisions in the an- nual targets were authorized. Since 1989, the pre- vious state monopoly over trade transactions has been substantially reduced by allowing producing firms and local authorities to make trade decisions and with the abolition of most export and import quotas. Trade transactions are carried out by about 600 firms, including 140 FTOs, which produce ex- portable goods or purchase them from producers. About three hundred producers have temporary or permanent trading rights, which allow them to ex- port and import directly; about one hundred and sixty foreign-owned or joint-venture firms trade di- rectly with foreign partners. State-owned firms with an annual export turnover of more than US$5 million may obtain permanent foreign direct trading rights, while those with an export turnover in the range of US$2-5 million may obtain temporary (an- nual) foreign direct trading rights. Other firms may obtain direct export permits on the basis of ship- ments or trade with an FTO. On May 3, 1990, the Council of Ministers issued Decree No. 131, which stipulates that, with effect from January 1, 1991, all firms will be permitted to engage in international trade, irrespective of forms of ownership and sub- ject only to registration with the Ministry of Trade and payment of a fee. Local FTOs are permitted to export all com- modities, and local firms may import the com- modities that they need for production. The pro- curement of exportable goods is normally unrestricted, except for some sensitive goods (such as rice), for which a minimum export price prevails. Import prices are freely determined on the basis of world market prices. Under Decision No. 188 of the Council of Minis- ters, export earnings are subject to various sur- render requirements, ranging up to 30 percent; however, this regulation is not strictly enforced. In practice, full retention of foreign exchange receipts has been tolerated by the authorities. All receipts must be repatriated within 30 days, except for spe- cial cases authorized by the Governor of the State Bank, such as for firms with marketing or represen- tative activities abroad. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. The foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad is limited to US$20, but travelers may use their own foreign ex- change. Holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy foreign and local consumer goods in special government shops. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the State Bank. Capital Foreign direct investment is regulated by an In- vestment Code approved by the National Assembly in 1987. The code provides for three forms of foreign investment (1) contracted business cooperation, such as product-sharing arrangements; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Viet- namese state economic organization; and (3) firms wholly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is no less than 30 percent, and there is no maximum limit. Other provisions in the code include (1) a 20-year limit on the duration of the enterprise with foreign capital, which, how- ever, can be extended for a longer period; (2) a tax of 5-10 percent (not yet in effect), to be levied on remittance of profits abroad; and (3) income taxes, to be paid at the reduced rates of 15-25 percent, starting two years after the first profit-making year. In 1990, the code was amended to allow domestic private firms to participate with foreign firms in investment projects. Provisions for repatriation of profits were also amended, including a scheme to use domestic currency to purchase exportable goods, the proceeds from which could be retained abroad. The authority to grant foreign investment li- censes is entrusted to provincial authorities. Since the end of 1987, about 160 projects have been ap- proved, with a total committed capital of about US$1.1 billion. In principle, 100 percent of profits may be repatriated. However, in practice, the con- version of profits in domestic currency into foreign currency for repatriation is subject to prevailing for- eign exchange regulations. Land cannot be owned by foreign investors and must be leased from the state. Beginning October 1988, Vietnamese organiza- tions and citizens who need foreign currency for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM 543 production and business purposes have been per- mitted, upon verification by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or obtain a bank guarantee for loans in foreign currency. If allowed to borrow directly from foreign countries under commercial credit, the borrower must report periodically to the State Bank the expenditures in foreign currency from funds deposited abroad, including loan repayments. machinery and equipment and from D 1,500 to D 3,430 per TR 1 for most other trade transactions; the latter rate was an average of D 1,923 per TR 1 for exports and D 2,370 per TR 1 for imports. December 31. The system of settlements in trans- ferable rubles with the members of the CMEA through the International Bank for Economic Coop- eration was abolished and was replaced by a system of settlements in convertible currencies. Gold Gold may be brought into the country, provided that required customs declarations are made and a customs tariff is paid; nonresidents are entitled to export gold up to the amount they brought in. The price of gold for domestic transactions is set at auc- tions organized by the Viet Nam Gold and Silver Trading Company. The importation of gold by resi- dents requires a license extended by the State Bank. The authority of the provincial council to extend gold import licenses was withdrawn in 1989. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement During 1990, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was adjusted on several occasions, from D 4,300 = US$1 on January 1, 1990 to D 6,500 = US$1 on De- cember 31, 1990. January 1. The exchange rate for transferable rubles (TR) for transactions with CMEA countries was adjusted from D 1,190 to D 1,400 per TR 1 for Imports and Exports July 7. The Council of Ministers promulgated Di- rective 245, under which all export receipts were required to be repatriated to bank accounts in do- mestic banks and to be fully surrendered at the prevailing exchange rate. Foreign exchange earners were given the right to buy back the receipts they had previously surrendered, at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of effecting payment. In addi- tion, the directive confirmed that residents would not be allowed to open bank accounts abroad with- out special permission. It was also confirmed that foreign currency and gold transactions between res- idents would not be permitted, and that the settle- ment of transactions with nonresidents could not be effected in foreign bank notes or in gold. Implemen- tation of this directive, however, was postponed, and it did not come into effect until the end of the year. July 1. A number of consumer goods, including cigarettes, china dishes, plastic items, processed food, and batteries, were prohibited from being imported until the end of the year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. The exchange rate of the tala is deter- mined on the basis of a fixed relationship between the tala and a weighted basket of currencies of West- ern Samoa's main trading partners. The Central Bank has the authority to make discretionary ex- change rate adjustments against the currency bas- ket within a margin of up to 2 percent. On Decem- ber 31,1990, the buying and selling rates of the tala in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, were WS$1 - US$0.4331 and WS$1 - US$0.4241, respectively. Exchange rates for the tala against other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the U.S. dollar. An ex- change levy of 1 percent is charged on gross sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the offi- cial or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Central Bank of Samoa, which delegates part of its powers to autho- rized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresi- dents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Central Bank of Samoa. However, the Bank of West- ern Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —are empowered to approve certain payments up to any amount, and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Nonresidents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, open external or foreign currency accounts with one of the two commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements. The importation of a few products is prohibited for rea- sons of security or health. Other products may be imported from any source without restriction, with the exception of used cars, buses and bus chassis, and dump trucks, the importation of which requires prior approval from the Central Bank. Approvals for these items are, however, granted liberally. Imports with a c . i . f. value of more than WS$15,000 must be financed by a letter of credit. Imports with a c . i . f. value of between WS$5,000 and WS$15,000 must be settled with a sight draf t. And imports with a c . i . f. value of less than WS$5,000 may be imported under open account, provided that payments for such im- ports are effected within 30 days of their arrival in Western Samoa. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Pay- ments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The central bank approval pro- cess that governs the remittance of invisible pay- ments is concerned only with the bona fide nature of the transaction. Residents and expatriates trav- eling overseas for private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to WS$200 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$3,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50 percent of the adult allowances. In the case of travel for business purposes, the daily allowance is WS$300 a person, with a limit of WS$4,500 a trip. The Central Bank of Samoa grants supplementary allocations against evidence that foreign exchange is being used for approved purposes. As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign bank notes equivalent to WS$1,000 a person a trip. All requests from residents of Western Samoa to remit funds to residents studying abroad to cover their education expenses must be supported by doc- umentary evidence confirming that the beneficiary is enrolled at an educational institution abroad. There is no specific limit for such remittances, but the amount requested must be supported by docu- mentary evidence for costs (fees, accommodation, meals, etc.) and must be in line with costs prevailing in the countries of study. Each resident of Western Samoa who has dependents living abroad may re- mit, from his own resources, an amount not exceed- ing WS$2,000 a donor a year for purposes of sup- porting such dependents. The Central Bank 544 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA 545 considers requests in excess of this amount on merit. Although no limit is set on remittances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, docu- mentary evidence must be provided to support re- quests for such remittances. Expatriate workers are allowed to repatriate up to 80 percent of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis; their surplus earnings may be re- patriated at the end of their contract. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remit- tances of dividends at the source and on interest payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export proceeds from goods shipped to countries other than American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment; export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess of WS$250. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents in per- forming services for nonresidents must be surren- dered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on their return, sell to the banks all unused foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but may not bring in any domestic bank notes. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by all residents (in- cluding banks) requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized banks may approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or for maintenance, up to WS$250 a person a year. Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. Under the Enterprises Incentive Act, persons engaged in approved enterprises are granted certain relief from income tax and business license fees. Both the re- patriation of capital and profit remittances on for- eign capital must be approved by the Central Bank of Samoa; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on im- ports or exports of gold. Changes During 1990 Administration of Control October 1. The Produce Marketing Division, the Cocoa Board, and the Copra Board were abolished. Imports and Import Payments July 1. The import duties on chemicals used in agriculture, animals for breeding purposes, and ag- ricultural machinery were eliminated, and those on raw materials for the manufacturing sector were reduced to 35 percent from 42 percent (of the c . i . f. value). Import tar iffs on selected food items were reduced. Capital Exports and Export Proceeds All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank of Samoa. February 1. The export levies on all agricultural commodities were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN1 (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 12.01 = US$1. On December 31, 1990, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YRls 12.00 and YRls 12.02, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for 12 other currencies2 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen, on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank of Yemen is the main buyer and seller of foreign exchange in the domestic banking system. It purchases foreign exchange primarily from money changers (mainly in Jeddah) who ac- quire foreign exchange from Yemeni workers in Saudi Arabia, and credits the accounts of the money changers with commercial banks in the Republic of Yemen. Commercial banks are allowed to purchase foreign exchange domestically (from customers and tourists) and to hold up to 50 percent of foreign exchange purchased to effect import payments on behalf of the Central Bank; the remainder must be sold to the Central Bank. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange for imports of wheat, flour, rice, and petroleum products (LPG). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign ex- change. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There is an informal market for foreign exchange involving money changers who, although legally not permitted to operate in foreign exchange trans- actions, transact in small amounts and within rea- sonable spreads from the official rate. Administration of Control The Central Bank establishes a foreign exchange budget in parallel with a commodity budget pre- pared by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry in consultation with the Cen- tral Bank. All imports require a license issued by both the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry, and licenses are sent directly !Qn May 22, 1990, the Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen merged into a single state, the Republic of Yemen. 2Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. to banks opening letters of credit. All enterprises are permitted to import spare parts up to a max- imum value of US$5,000 for each unlicensed ship- ment to meet emergency requirements. The value of imports under this facility is not allowed to exceed US$50,000 a year for each enterprise. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank. All commercial banks operate in the foreign exchange market only as agents of the Central Bank. They are not allowed to buy or sell foreign exchange for their own account, but are allowed to do so for the ac- counts of their customers. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments An annual foreign exchange budget is prepared by the Central Bank and is approved by the Su- preme Council for Economic, Oil, and Investment Affairs. In conjunction with the foreign exchange budget, an import program is prepared annually by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry. The priority categories are foodstuffs, petroleum products, medicines, and inputs for production. Imports from Israel and imports of certain types of used machinery for resale are prohibited. All other imports require licenses and must be pro- cessed through local commercial banks. In addition, the importation of certain products requires the per- mission of certain government agencies, and im- ports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company, a public corporation. With the exception of medical imports, insurance for all imports must be purchased locally. All importers holding an import license for wheat, flour, rice, and LPG can obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the informal market. Foreign exchange for these four products is provided by the Central Bank. Yemeni nationals returning from abroad who use their savings in foreign exchange to establish small enterprises or craft shops are al- lowed to import machinery and spare parts needed for their business activities up to a limit of US$40,000 with the authorization of the Ministry of Supply and Trade. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a tax of 1 per- cent for reconstruction related to earthquake 546 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 547 damage. Imports transported over land routes without a license are subject to a 100 percent sur- charge and an advance payment of profits tax equal to 3 percent of their value. Payments for Invisibles There is no restriction on invisible payments al- though amounts sold at the official exchange rate are limited. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange to those seeking medical treatment abroad, with the amount depending on their destination and up to a maximum of US$3,000. Larger amounts are granted only by special permission from the Central Bank. There are no restrictions on outward remittances in foreign exchange by expatriate employees. The exportation of Yemen rial bank notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical purposes only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by banks. Non- petroleum exporters may use 100 percent of their foreign exchange receipts to finance imports either of their own inputs, or of any other permitted goods, as long as they have an import license. Ex- porters do not have to surrender their foreign ex- change proceeds, which they may retain in free foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Exporters of qat are subject to an export duty of 12 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign bank notes. The importation of Yemen rial bank notes is prohibited. Capital Although inward and outward capital transfers are not restricted, they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Ministry of Industry. For approved and registered projects, this law guarantees freedom of investment, equal treatment of foreigners and nationals, the transfer abroad of net profits after taxes attributable to foreign capital, and the repatriation of registered capital on liquida- tion in the currency of investment. In practice, in- vestors are free to transfer abroad any portion of their share of net profits after taxes and other provi- sions and to repatriate their capital. Nationalization and confiscation are prohibited, except in cases of urgent public necessity, and then only with com- pensation and permission to transfer foreign capital abroad. Direct investments are authorized by the Minister of Industry upon determination that the project is economically viable and socially accept- able; a reasonable timetable for completion and other conditions must be specified. Certain tax and import duty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved pro- jects that meet specific economic criteria. Private capital transactions unrelated to direct investments may also be made without restriction. The registra- tion of direct foreign investments and the authen- tication of intended profit and capital repatriation are undertaken by the Ministry of Industry in coop- eration with the Central Bank. External public debt transactions are conducted through the Central Bank, which also maintains accounts of outstand- ing amounts and service payments due. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Republic of Yemen. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement February 19. The external value of the Yemen rial was adjusted to YRls 12.01 per US$1 from YRls 9.76. May 4. In anticipation of the merger of the Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Re- public of Yemen, a fixed exchange rate relationship was established between the Yemen rial (YRls), the currency of the Yemen Arab Republic, and the Yemeni dinar (YD), the currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, at YRls 26 = YD 1. Both currencies became legal tender in the newly formed Republic of Yemen. May 22. The Yemen Arab Republic and the Peo- ple's Democratic Republic of Yemen merged into a single state, the Republic of Yemen. Imports and Import Payments April 14. The commercial banks were authorized to buy foreign exchange both domestically and abroad, and to hold up to 15 percent of foreign exchange purchased to effect import payments on behalf of the Central Bank. August 1. The commercial banks were authorized to open letters of credit for the importation of most goods, provided that such imports are self- financing. The commercial banks were thus in- structed to accept import licenses in respect of these ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 548 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN imports (which have been issued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade) without approval from the Cen- tral Bank. (Previously, the Central Bank had to ap- prove the availability of foreign exchange for all import licenses.) The Central Bank remained re- sponsible for providing foreign exchange in respect of imports of wheat, flour, rice, and petroleum products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on January I, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Yugoslavia is the New Yugoslav Dinar. The exchange rate of the dinar is fixed at Din 9 dinars per deutsche mark (DM), and quoted ex- change rates for all other convertible currencies1 are determined daily on the basis of the exchange rates of the currencies concerned against the deutsche mark on the international market. All transactions, other than those effected under the procedures set forth for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements (see section on Prescription of Currency, below), take place in an interbank foreign exchange market conducted daily with the participa- tion of the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY). Trans- actions are settled at the official exchange rate, which is also the rate at which banks deal with customers. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1990 was Din 10.6574 per US$1; on the same date, the exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar for transac- tions under bilateral accounts was Din 10.6574 per US$1. There are no taxes or other subsidies on the pur- chase or sale of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Federal Assembly formulates Yugoslavia's foreign exchange policy each year; the projections of its balance of payments and foreign exchange bal- ance are component parts of this decision. The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Eco- nomic Relations implements government decisions pertaining to certain foreign trade transactions and issues import and export licenses and instructions when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade with payments agreement coun- tries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the Na- tional Bank of Yugoslavia, and the national banks of 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). the republics and autonomous provinces adminis- ter the exchange controls. The National Bank of Yugoslavia prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank, of which there are two types: (1) fully authorized banks, which are permit- ted to engage in transactions with foreign countries and may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (including the granting of guarantees); and (2) banks that are authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions abroad. Authorized exchange offices may only purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; this status is open to all commercial and sav- ings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks. All enterprises, irrespective of their ownership structure, may be registered with the commercial courts for purposes of engaging in foreign trade. At the end of 1990 there were some 36,500 such enter- prises, compared with about 1,300 a year ago. The majority of these enterprises are privately owned, in many instances by foreigners. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Yugoslavia notified the Fund on August 31, 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq and persons within the territories of Iraq and Kuwait. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies, and according to the pro- cedures, set forth in these agreements. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring denomination of transactions in clearing U.S. dollars with Albania, Czechoslovakia, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R.2 2With effect from January 1, 1991, all transactions have been made in convertible currencies; agreements to that effect have been finalized with all of these countries except with Czechoslovakia. 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 YUGOSLAVIA Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign natural and juridical persons may main- tain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: foreigners residing outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies with fully authorized banks in Yugoslavia; and foreign missions and foreigners residing in Yugoslavia may freely open accounts expressed in foreign curren- cies with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible curren- cies of nonresident natural and juridical persons are kept in the currency deposited.3 Balances held in these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any convertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers may be made in other convertible currencies provided that the bank holding the account is prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilat- eral currencies may be opened only for certain for- eign natural and juridical persons residing in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for retransfer to the country to which the bilateral account is related. Foreign natural and juridical persons may in cer- tain cases and under specified conditions open non- resident accounts in dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized. The possibility of using dinars from such accounts in Yugoslavia and the degree of transferability of the funds depend on the origin of the dinar deposits. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, freely transferable abroad. Transfers may be effected on the basis of reciprocity. Apart from this, foreign natural persons may keep convertible currencies on their foreign ex- change accounts or foreign exchange savings de- posits with authorized banks. These balances may be kept as sight or time deposits. Authorized banks pay interest on the balances on foreign exchange 3 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following curren- cies: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. accounts and foreign exchange deposits of foreign physical persons either in foreign currencies or, at their request, in foreign currencies and dinars, or in dinars. From January 1, through December 20,1990, resi- dent nationals could purchase from the official banking system unlimited amounts of foreign ex- change without restriction. Since December 21, 1990, they have been able to purchase only limited amounts of foreign exchange for specific purposes. They may also maintain foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in convertible currencies with any authorized bank. These ac- counts may be credited with foreign currencies transferred from abroad, with interest paid in dinars, or kept in dinars or in foreign exchange. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained indefi- nitely, with a limit on withdrawals in cash of the equivalent of DM 1,000. Balances are not transfer- able to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav na- tionals residing abroad, former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia, and nonresidents may also open for- eign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments Products are classified into three categories: free (LB); subject to quotas (K); and subject to ad hoc licensing (D). The LB category consists of about 88 percent of items under the customs tariffs; they are free of quota restrictions and payments for these imports are permitted freely. Products subject to import quotas (K list — representing about 12 percent of total imports) con- sist primarily of some essential agricultural prod- ucts and food products, some ferrous and nonfer- rous metals, and equipment. The quotas are set annually by the Federal Executive Council (in vol- ume or in value terms) and are allocated to individ- ual enterprises by the Yugoslav Chamber of Econ- omy. If the quotas are not allocated among the enterprises within the Yugoslav Chamber of Econ- omy or if allocations do not correspond to estab- lished criteria, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations is authorized to distribute im- ports among individual enterprises. Imports subject to licensing by the Federal Secre- tariat for Foreign Economic Relations (D list) include products whose importation is controlled by inter- national agreement for noneconomic reasons (e.g., arms, illegal drugs and narcotics, and historical and artistic work). The importation of these products is allowed on an individual basis and for specific pur- poses. The importation of certain goods originating ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 551 from some countries, particularly from developing countries, is subject to an additional requirement of regional accordance issued by the Federal Secre- tariat for Foreign Economic Relations. Imports from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the rele- vant agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them in accordance with rules govern- ing citizens' right to import. A 1 percent tax for customs evidence, a 7.5 per- cent tax equalization charge, and a 7.5 percent im- port surcharge are levied on all products not exempt from customs duty. Some agricultural products are subject to import levies. Returning resident trav- elers may bring in duty-free imports up to Din 200 a person. There are special facilities for full or partial exemption for payment of customs duties on certain imports by Yugoslav workers returning from abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles related to imports are free of restrictions. All payments for other current account operations were free until December 21, 1990. There is no special exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. Yugoslav citizens are allowed to use freely balances from their foreign exchange ac- counts and foreign exchange savings deposits for tourist travel abroad. However, the equivalent of no more than DM 1,000 a person can be taken abroad in the form of bank notes. Nonresident persons providing services in Yugoslavia receive payment in dinars, which they may convert freely into foreign exchange and trans- fer abroad without restriction. Payments may also be received in foreign exchange and transferred abroad without restriction, provided that they are effected through the banking system. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency to residents for payment of specified medical treat- ment abroad, for remittances for court and other fees abroad, and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval from the appropriate au- thorities in the republics and autonomous provinces. The exportation of domestic bank notes is restricted to Din 1,200 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and from other forms of eco- nomic cooperation with foreign countries is sold to commercial banks immediately upon repatriation at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of sale. In principle, exports are free of control. Certain raw materials that are in short supply in the domes- tic market and certain other materials, such as gun- powder, weapons, and narcotic drugs, require ex- port licenses. Unless specifically exempted, proceeds from ex- ports must be repatriated. The normal period of repatriation is 90 days from the date of exportation. All foreign exchange earnings must be sold to fully authorized banks immediately upon repatriation. Proceeds from exports on credit must be repatriated within the period of time stipulated under the credit agreement. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days of the date on which the claim is payable. Exchange proceeds may be used for pay- ments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, including pay- ments for purchases of equipment and other mate- rial for capital construction work abroad. The ex- change proceeds are transferable to Yugoslavia within 90 days of work completion and must be sold to authorized banks. With specified exceptions, proceeds from services are subject to the same sur- render requirements and procedures as are pro- ceeds from exports of goods. Residents who, while employed abroad, depos- ited their savings in foreign savings banks and ob- tained a "bilingual savings book/' issued under specific arrangements between Yugoslavia and for- eign banks, may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Resi- dents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia, which may be credited with the full amount of their savings in foreign exchange. They may use these accounts for their personal needs and for those of their immediate families. The importation of domestic bank notes is re- stricted to Din 1,200 a person a trip. Capital Enterprises and other social legal persons may borrow abroad according to criteria established by the Law on Foreign Credit Relations of 1985 and the regulations issued under this law. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic or- ganizations in the form of joint ventures and may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 YUGOSLAVIA also establish their own enterprises with ownership of up to 100 percent. There is no limit on the share of foreign investment in the organization's capital. Profit transfers are permitted in proportion to the share of the foreign partner's contributions to the income. If the law governing joint ventures were amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a joint venture would continue to be applied during the entire life of the investment con- tract if the foreign investor so desires, or, at the latter's option, more favorable provisions of the amended legislation could be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. Economic organizations wishing to participate in foreign enterprises or to establish their own enter- prise abroad may be allowed to export the necessary capital under special conditions set by federal law; approval for such capital should be obtained from the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Rela- tions, under the procedure specified by existing legislation. Gold In 1968 the National Bank issued certain com- memorative gold coins, which are legal tender. For- eign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia but can- not export them except with the approval of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Such gold coins may be sold to any authorized bank, and residents may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold according to the existing reg- ulations on trade in goods and on control of articles made from precious metals. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the K import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Au- thorized banks may freely export gold coins. Pro- ducers may export newly mined gold or sell it to specified users at home at the average price on the international gold market. Domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price that equals the average quotation in free gold mar- kets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Residents were allowed to purchase foreign currency in unlimited amounts through the banking system without restriction. These amounts could be purchased with dinar bank notes or from dinar accounts in domestic banks. Foreign currency could be acquired in the form of bank notes, trav- eler's checks, or foreign currency accounts held in domestic banks. August 1. Limitations in the form of a highly un- favorable accounting rate through the clearing ac- count with the U.S.S.R. were introduced on the use of traveler's checks and bank drafts by Soviet cit- izens traveling in Yugoslavia. The net effect of the measures was to switch such transactions to a con- vertible currency basis. December 17. The National Bank of Yugoslavia limited its daily intervention in the interbank for- eign exchange market and tightened requirements for authorized dealers to certify in all cases the na- ture of the foreign exchange applications, which it would verify ex post. December 28. It was announced that a 22 percent devaluation of the dinar in foreign currency terms to a new fixed peg of Din 9 = DM 1 would take effect on January 1, 1991. Resident and Nonresident Accounts December 21. Transfers abroad from foreign cur- rency accounts held by resident nationals were not allowed, in accordance with a decision of the Federal Executive Council. The decision would be in effect through December 31,1990. Withdrawals from for- eign currency accounts were limited to the equiv- alent of DM 1,000 in any form. Payments for Invisibles October 11. The purchase of foreign bank notes was limited to the equivalent of DM 1,000 a person for each purchase. The exportation of foreign bank notes was limited to the equivalent of DM 1,000 a person a trip. November 21. The purchase of foreign bank notes was limited to the equivalent of DM 1,000 a person a month; the limit on purchases of traveler's checks and bank drafts in foreign currencies remained unrestricted. December 21. A decision was temporarily intro- duced, limiting the scope for the purchase of for- eign exchange with dinars by resident nationals to make the following payments: costs incurred in hos- pital treatment abroad; court and other administra- tive fees; costs of legal assistance abroad, and traffic and other fines related to offenses committed abroad; travel and moving expenses related to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 553 relocation; membership fees in international asso- ciations; costs to protect patents abroad; and costs related to the transfer from abroad of the remains of deceased persons, and burial services and mainte- nance of burial sites abroad. This decision was in effect until January 22, 1991. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The liquidation of export proceeds from the sale of goods and services with respect to clear- ing account operations was limited to the actual payments for imports of goods and services. April 1. A subsidy payment of 7 percent on net exports of goods and 3 percent on net exports of services was introduced. The subsidies would be paid on the net monthly foreign exchange flow through enterprises' accounts in their domestic banks and would be financed from the federal budget. September 1. The subsidy payment on net exports of goods was raised to 10 percent, and it would apply uniformly to monthly net exports of goods and services. December 31. The 10 percent subsidy payment on net exports of goods was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the Zaire. The official exchange rate of the zaire is determined in a weekly interbank fixing session in which the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) is usually the only seller of foreign exchange. At the weekly meeting of the authorized banks, under the chairmanship of the Bank of Zaire, the official fixing rate is determined by the Bank of Zaire on the basis of foreign exchange demand and information on parallel market exchange rate de- velopments. The SDR equivalent of the fixing rate is then maintained during the following week. Al- though not legally bound, commercial banks main- tain a close relationship between the official fixing rate and the rates in their daily transactions among themselves and with their clients. On December 31, 1990, the fixing rate of the zaire was Z 2,000 = US$1. The official exchange rates for the zaire against 22 currencies1 in which authorized banks (and other intermediaries) are permitted to deal are published daily by the Bank of Zaire. The official rates for the zaire against these currencies are fixed daily by the Bank of Zaire, on the basis of the SDR rates for these currencies, applying the SDR rate for the zaire that prevailed at the last weekly fixing. In addition to a commission charge of not more than 1 percent, for- eign exchange transactions between the authorized commercial banks and nonbank customers are sub- ject to an exchange control fee of 3 per mill, payable to the Bank of Zaire. There are no commission charges or exchange fees on foreign exchange trans- actions in the interbank market. A parallel market with a substantial spread from the official exchange rate exists. Transactions at the official rate cover only a small part of foreign exchange transactions in Zaire. Forward exchange transactions are permitted for a maximum period of 60 days with respect to trade, invisibles, and capital transactions under cer- tain conditions. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has full regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including dis- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Rwanda francs, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and the European Currency Unit. cretionary power to authorize residents to hold and use foreign exchange abroad and within Zaire. The Bank of Zaire may delegate this authority to certain bank or nonbank intermediaries. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance and Budget, manages the medium- and long-term external and domestic public and pub- licly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servic- ing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, including terms and guarantees ex- tended by the Government on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In prin- ciple, no new external borrowing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zaire. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the acceptance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Except for working balances, all currencies received must be converted into a convertible currency. Pay- ments to nonresidents from residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies or by crediting their nonresident convertible accounts. Settlements with the member countries of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) (Burundi and Rwanda) and the member countries of the Communaute economique des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (CEEAC)2 are made through convertible accounts established under ar- rangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Bal- ances on these convertible accounts at the end of settlement periods, which is a quarter for CEPGL countries and a month for the CEEAC countries, are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. Virtually all settlements (other than for re- exports) with member countries of the CEEAC are 2Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome and Principe. 554 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 555 effected through the Central African Clearing House (Chambre de compensation de 1'Afrique cen- trale) through its account with the Bank of Zaire. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident ac- counts: Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts (comptes de non-residents en devises), Nonresident Convertible Accounts (comptes etrangers convert- ibles), Nonresident Ordinary Accounts (comptes etrangers ordinaires), and Nonresident Special Accounts (comptes etrangers indisponibles). All non- resident accounts are maintained as non-interest- bearing sight deposits, and no overdraft is permitted. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, as well as nonresident convertible and special accounts, can be opened without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire at any authorized commercial bank. With a few exceptions, the opening of nonresident ordinary accounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. Such authorization is not re- quired when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplomatic missions (including those re- presenting international and official multilateral or- ganizations), and official civil and military coopera- tion programs. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited with foreign currency payments by resi- dents or nonresidents in the following cases: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) transfers of foreign currencies from Nonresi- dent Convertible Accounts; (3) foreign exchange proceeds resulting directly from arbitrage transac- tions; (4) inward transfers in foreign currencies from nonresidents and from foreign exchange ac- counts held abroad; (5) payments in foreign curren- cies made by nonresidents; and (6) transfers in for- eign currencies from other Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be debited freely for the following purposes: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) sales of foreign currency to any autho- rized bank against zaires; (3) foreign exchange charges arising from arbitrage transactions of for- eign currencies authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (4) outward transfers in foreign currencies; (5) transfers to other Nonresident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts; (6) withdrawals of bank notes or traveler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (7) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident Convertible Accounts may be credited with (1) spot purchases of domestic currency against foreign currencies on the interbank market; (2) transfers from other Nonresident Convertible Accounts as well as from Resident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts; and (3) payments by authorized commercial banks in connection with operations for which the Bank of Zaire authorizes those banks either to credit Nonresident Convertible Accounts or to deliver foreign currency as stipulated by the exchange regulation. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) payments to residents for operations other than exports of goods and services; (2) pur- chases at an authorized bank of foreign currencies or any other means of payment for travel expenses abroad; (3) transfers to other Nonresident Convert- ible Accounts and purchases of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires at any authorized commercial bank; and (4) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident Ordinary Accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign exchange against zaires, received as down payments or transferred from abroad; (2) transfers in zaires from Nonresident Convertible Accounts; and (3) receipts in zaires from residents on account of services rendered in Zaire, property rentals, transportation fares, consu- lar and chancery fees, and other services as spec- ified by the Bank of Zaire at the time such accounts are opened. Nonresident Ordinary Accounts may be debited for (1) payments in zaires to residents on account of local purchases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and banking commissions and fees; (2) transfers to other Nonresident Ordinary Accounts of the same holder; and (3) withdrawals of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires. In addition, assets held in Nonresident Ordi- nary Accounts are not transferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to Nonresident Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Special Accounts can be opened for nonresidents entitled to receive specified payments on account of (1) sale or rent from real estate prop- erties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents; and (2) sale of businesses and goodwill, as well as shares in agricultural, com- mercial, industrial, and service companies located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents. In addition, all assets denominated in zaires and owned by non- Zairian residents permanently leaving Zaire must be deposited in or transferred to a Nonresident Spe- cial Account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons. The same requirements apply to proceeds from the sale of real estate or the rental of fixed capital owned by non-Zairian resi- dents who subsequently become nonresidents. Ac- counts under this category can be debited only for (1) travel expenses incurred by the holders of such accounts; (2) transfers to religious organizations or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 556 ZAIRE any nonprofit cultural, philanthropic, or social or- ganizations; (3) banking commissions and fees; (4) local taxes payable to the Central Government of Zaire; (5) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (6) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Resident Foreign Exchange Accounts Residents are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts at local commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with funds arising from capital transactions but not with receipts from exports of goods, services, or the prefinancing of such ex- ports.3 These accounts may be sight or term ac- counts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for which the Bank of Zaire pub- lishes exchange rates. Overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. Deposits in these accounts may be used to meet virtually any foreign exchange obli- gation, including import payments, and funds may be transferred from one foreign exchange account to another. Existing regulatory and administrative provisions relating to imports apply to imports fi- nanced from these accounts. Any import payments permitting this method of payment (using Form I) may be made by debiting these accounts. Autho- rized banks may pay royalties, merchandise trans- port costs, services, and capital retransfer to non- residents out of these accounts on the instruction of the account holders, who provide the supporting documents required under the exchange regula- tions. For account holders with the requisite sup- porting documentation, Form V is not required for withdrawals to cover travel or living expenses abroad, medical expenses incurred or to be incurred abroad, educational or training expenses incurred or to be incurred abroad, and tickets for interna- tional travel. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, certain alcoholic beverages, and equipment for aerial and maritime navigation, are prohibited (or require special authorization from the Executive Council). Most other imports are subject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. In gen- eral, import declarations remain valid for 12 months; if an importer wishes to extend the validity 3There are, however, several exceptions. Companies in certain sectors are allowed to retain a portion of their foreign exchange earnings in such accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds). period, he must so indicate in the import docu- ments accompanying the import declaration. The validity may be extended by the authorized banks if shipment has begun; if shipment has not begun, extension of the validity period requires authoriza- tion from the Bank of Zaire. Imports of goods in- tended for expansion of capital base or for the im- porter's own use may be effected without a declaration to an authorized bank, provided that the value does not exceed SDR 5,000 and that the ship- ments are financed by the importer's own resources. All goods shipped by sea to Zaire must be trans- ported on vessels belonging to shipowners that are bonded with the Office zairois de gestion des frets maritimes (OGEFREM) and whose freight charges have been negotiated with that office. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including payments up to 30 days from date of shipment). The mode of pay- ment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Interest payments on foreign financing for imports are authorized only if the importer has ob- tained suppliers' credits or another form of foreign financing with a maturity of at least 90 days, and provided that no advance deposit in a foreign cur- rency has been made with the foreign correspon- dent of the authorized bank involved. A detailed record of all financing charges must be submitted by the foreign correspondent to the domestic autho- rized bank; it is used as a basic document to justify all payments of import-financing charges. Financ- ing charges are treated as invisible payments associ- ated with the import transaction involved. Autho- rized banks are allowed to pay transportation and insurance costs in foreign currency only on imports for which they pay on an f .o .b. basis. With a few exceptions, imports are subject to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and found ac- ceptable by the foreign agents of the Office zairois de controle (OZAC); however, verification may be effected upon arrival by establishing a guarantee. Verification certificates are not required for import values (f .o .b .) of SDR 1,000 or less per tariff item, or of SDR 5,000 or less per shipment. Prior approval from the Bank of Zaire is required for (1) imports transported by foreign air carriers with charges payable in foreign currency, if such costs exceed the f .o .b. value by 20 percent; (2) im- ports in the form of foreign contributions to capital intended for resale; (3) imports financed by sup- pliers' credits or other interest-bearing foreign fi- nancing with a maturity of more than one year, except imports contracted or guaranteed by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 557 Government; and (4) imports requiring a down payment in foreign currency before shipment. The customs tariff rates range from 15 percent to 50 percent, with a special rate of 5 percent for certain equipment. The rate of the turnover tax ranges from zero to 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles must be made through an authorized bank. When the approval of the Bank of Zaire is required, it must be requested by the authorized banks concerned. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign ex- change of commissions in favor of shippers or pur- chasing agents. Zairian freight must be handled exclusively by bonded shipowners whose freight charges have been authorized in advance by the Office zairois de gestion des frets maritimes. Banks may effect freight payments only on submission of invoices by the shippers or their agents. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. How- ever, outward remittances of salaries of expatriate employees are limited to the levels authorized dur- ing the preceding year. The transfer abroad of sal- aries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 per- cent of net salary, provided that the nontransferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation are authorized. Transfers of nonresidents' rental income are sus- pended. Payments for commissions, brokerage charges and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in zaires for trips starting in Zaire. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts that depend on the duration of the journey and the status of the traveler. Residents entitled to transfer part of their income abroad are not allowed to obtain foreign currency from authorized banks to pay for their tickets for international travel and their living expenses abroad involving private travel. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and house- holds residing in the border area are entitled to purchase once a month the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs. The importation of Zairian bank notes and coins by residents and nonresidents is prohibited. How- ever, the importation of such means of payment by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda is authorized within the limits of the agreements between the members of the CEPGL. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations require individual declarations, which banks are normally authorized to validate. Declarations must specify the type of merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Declarations of foreign exchange commit- ment are normally valid for 90 days. The export proceeds must be received and surrendered within this period; otherwise, export proceeds must be received within 45 days. Special provisions apply to mineral production of the Generate des carrieres et des mines (GECAMINES), which is authorized to re- tain 45 percent of its net export proceeds with banks abroad or in Zaire (in Resident Foreign Exchange Accounts) for meeting its own payments abroad, and must surrender the remainder to the Bank of Zaire. Lumber companies are also allowed to retain 20 percent of their export proceeds from treated wood and 15 percent of export proceeds from logs, and they may use the retained earnings to pay for imports of inputs and spare parts directly related to production. The exportation, turnover, and statistical taxes on coffee exports have been suspended. Coffee is ex- ported through the Zairian Office for Coffee (OZACAF), and is subject to an export tax at the rate of 2 percent and to a turnover tax of 3 percent. Coffee is subject to quality control. It may be ex- ported under prefinancing contracts. The partial retention of export proceeds abroad is also permitted for a limited number of other enter- prises, including the Societe de developpement in- dustriel et minier du Zaire (SODIMIZA—50 percent) and the Societe miniere de Bakwanga (MIBA— 20 percent). The full retention of export receipts in accounts abroad is permitted for a number of other enterprises, including the oil corporations. The trade of artisanal gold and diamonds is, in principle, free, with exports being channeled through autho- rized marketing agencies (comptoirs agrees). Autho- rized exporters of gold are allowed to retain 30 per- cent of their export receipts in Resident Foreign Exchange Accounts. Since April 1990, the Bank of Zaire has been purchasing and exporting gold on its own account, along with the authorized marketing agencies in the market. Industrial diamonds are sold through the De Beers Group, which guaran- tees a minimum export price. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, cocoa, tea, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 ZAIRE Proceeds from Invisibles Authorized banks may retain all their foreign ex- change receipts from invisibles on the same basis as their export receipts. Travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes or other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, provided that they are declared to immigration upon entering Zaire. Declaration of means of payment denominated in foreign currency is not required upon departure. The exportation of Zairian bank notes and coins is prohibited. Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in un- der the provisions of the Investment Code is permit- ted only at the time of liquidation; the transfer of profits and dividends from such capital is guaran- teed. Daily ceilings are set on the net foreign cur- rency position of each authorized bank. Gold Only Zairian nationals are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold within Zaire, outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive mining concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate per- sons and corporate persons under Zairian law may do so only on behalf of and for account of authorized marketing agencies. With the exception of jewelry, imports and exports of gold require prior authoriza- tion from the Bank of Zaire. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments March 31. The exemption of import duty on cer- tain equipment was abolished, and the import du- ties paid on imports of equipment were permitted to be deducted from the income tax liability. Exports and Export Proceeds August 24. Approval of the Department of Agri- culture was no longer required for exports of coffee, and coffee was allowed to be exported under prefi- nancing contracts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. On February 19, 1990, a dual exchange system, comprising the official exchange rate (OER) and the market exchange rate (MER), was introduced. The OER is fixed in terms of the SDR, and during 1990, its rate against the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, was adjusted on several occasions, from K 24.4 per US$1 on February 19 to K 42.5 per US$1 on December 31. The Bank of Zambia purchases foreign exchange at the OER for all remittances of the copper company, Zambian Consolidated Min- ing Company (ZCCM), and at the MER for all other transactions, including transactions of any individ- uals wishing to sell foreign exchange on a "no- questions-asked" basis. The Bank of Zambia sells foreign exchange at the OER for official imports of oil and fertilizer, for payments to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), and for the for- eign exchange requirements of the copper com- pany. It sells foreign exchange at the MER for spec- ified imports and certain service payments. The MER is adjusted to reflect demand and supply con- ditions and, during 1990, it was changed on several occasions, from K 40.0 per US$1 on February 19 to K 47.4 per US$1 on December 31. Exporters are also informally authorized to sell foreign exchange re- tained under the export retention scheme to im- porters. On December 31, 1990, the rate at which these transactions took place was around K 80 per US$1. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and other convertible currencies. Autho- rized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia, or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign ex- change markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks, the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.5 percent for purchases and 1.5 percent for sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are permitted to charge an additional 1 percent on either side for transactions by telegraphic transfers, and 1.25 per- cent for sales and purchases of foreign currency notes, when quoting their rates to customers. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minis- ter of Finance. The control of trade is the responsi- bility of the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in pounds sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any for- eign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. External Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with autho- rized banks by foreign embassies/missions, diplo- mats, and expatriate staff of the United Nations and similar international organizations are designated External Accounts. Authorized banks are required to obtain prior permission from the exchange con- trol authorities before opening a new External Ac- count. Only funds originating from abroad can be credited to those accounts. Balances in External Accounts may be transferred abroad or withdrawn for use in Zambia without exchange control permission. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized dealers in foreign exchange by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emigrants may be deb- ited each year for the permitted anniversary al- lowance for remittance to the country of residence of the account holder. The interest on Blocked Ac- count balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Nonresident Zambians and resident Zambians who work for international organizations and earn foreign currencies may open foreign currency ac- counts with commercial banks, subject to prior ap- proval from the Bank of Zambia. 559 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 ZAMBIA Imports and Import Payments Imports may be effected under the open general license (OGL) system at MER on the basis of a positive list. Goods can also be imported under the export retention or "no-funds-involved" import schemes on the basis of a negative list. Imports of certain specified products are prohibited for rea- sons of health, safety, or public policy. Imports of personal and household effects, samples, diplo- matic shipments, and means of transportation en- tering Zambia temporarily do not require individ- ual import licenses. Imports that do not involve foreign exchange allocation from official sources (i.e., "no-funds-involved" imports) also do not re- quire an import license. Payments for imports for which foreign exchange is requested at the MER must be made by documen- tary irrevocable letters of credit. For imports of goods valued up to US$50,000, the importer must submit one invoice price quotation; for imports val- ued between US$50,000 and US$500,000, the im- porter is required to provide three separate invoice quotations, and for those exceeding US$500,000 in value, the importer must provide evidence that he has attempted to obtain the most competitive price through International Competitive Bidding. The Bank of Zambia does not approve payments for imports unless a satisfactory report regarding pre- shipment inspection is issued by international agen- cies. All imports that are settled with official foreign exchange are subject to preshipment inspection by international agencies, except where the f .o .b. value of each import consignment is less than US$15,000. The commercial banks are required to submit to the Bank of Zambia a weekly return on letters of credit opened, with specific information. Payments for Invisibles Payments in foreign exchange for invisibles, in- cluding freight and other related charges on im- ports, require the approval of the Bank of Zambia. The basic allowance for business travel is US$225 a person a day for up to 14 days a calendar year; foreign exchange for this purpose must have the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange allowances for tourist travel are not granted. Travel allowances of US$50 a trip are granted to children returning to schools overseas. Allowances for education and medical treatment abroad may be granted by the Bank of Zambia. Remittances abroad for advertising, manage- ment, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents must be made by using foreign ex- change at the MER rate after prior approval has been granted by the Bank of Zambia. Dividends earned on the nonresidents' share in paid-up equity capi- tal, that has been invested since 1989 may be trans- ferred, up to 20 percent of capital or 50 percent of net profits, whichever is smaller, attributable to such capital. Foreign exchange for such remittances is provided at the MER rate. Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 percent of their after-tax profits. A further 10 percent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Airlines that do not land in Zambia are not allowed to remit funds abroad. Foreign nationals working on contract in Zambia may generally remit up to the equivalent of US$4,260 a year in monthly installments as an "in- ducement allowance." The Bank of Zambia permits higher inducement allowances in individual cases depending upon the position held by the expatriate and his/her professional experience and expertise. In addition, expatriates may remit gratuity of up to 25 percent of the inducement allowance. Payments to expatriates employed by the ZCCM are made from its own allocations of foreign exchange and are not subject to the above limitation, whereas all other inducement payments must be made from the working balances of commercial banks. Foreign na- tionals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, and maintenance; their salary on ac- cumulated leave, gratuity, and other terminal bene- fits are transferable only on completion of the con- tract period as part of their emigration allowance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a maximum of K 100 in Zambian currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, except where the goods represent a genuine personal gift and their value does not ex- ceed K 100, are required to be declared on the pre- scribed Export Declaration Form and require a li- cense. For most goods, export licenses are issued by the exporter's bank or the Bank of Zambia, under the authority of the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry. However, exports of 48 products are pro- hibited or restricted and require prior approval from the Ministry of Commerce.1 Export proceeds in for- eign currency appropriate to the country of destina- tion must be surrendered to the Bank of Zambia; the ZCCM credits its export proceeds to a Bank of Zambia lOn March 16,1991, the list of restricted exports was reduced to the following four products: white maize, fertilizers, petroleum products, and ivory. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 561 account abroad upon receipt, and foreign exchange that is judged necessary to meet its own foreign ex- change needs is allocated from that account. Generally, exports are required to be financed through irrevocable letters of credit or advanced payments. Prior approval from the Bank of Zambia is necessary for all exports whose methods of pay- ment are different from those mentioned above. As an export incentive, up to 50 percent of nontfadi- tional export proceeds may be used by the exporter for the purchase of imports and to make certain service and debt payments. However, all such ex- port receipts must be surrendered in full to the Bank of Zambia by commercial banks in one of the follow- ing five currencies: U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, deutsche mark, French francs, and South African rand. The Bank of Zambia keeps these receipts for up to six months in an account abroad, and export- ers are required to apply to the Bank of Zambia for reallocation of these receipts for their import- financing requirements within the same period. If these balances have not been used at the end of the six-month period, they are automatically converted into kwacha at the original exchange rate. Nonnational agricultural producers are eligible for certain incentives in the form of foreign ex- change, on the basis of every standard bag of maize, wheat, rice, barley, soybean, or tobacco sold by them in excess of the prescribed number of bags. Corresponding foreign exchange incentives for na- tional agricultural producers are made available on application to the exchange control authorities where the incentive is intended for the importation of agricultural inputs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 100 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. However, all borrowings outside Zambia require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Out- ward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresi- dents are normally permitted to repatriate their in- vestments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zam- bia. The repatriation is generally spread over more than three years. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt/equity ratio of 1 to 1 in the case of manufacturing companies and 1 to 3 in the case of others. However, there is no such limit where borrowings are intended for agricultural op- erations. Prior approval from the Bank of Zambia is required for borrowings in excess of the above limits. Emigrants are granted foreign exchange as fol- lows: (1) settling-in allowance equivalent to K 25,000 for a single person, K 35,000 for a married couple, K 50,000 for persons aged 50 years and over, and K 2,000 for a child up to a maximum of four children; and (2) anniversary allowance equivalent to K 15,000 for a single person, K 25,000 for a mar- ried couple, and K 35,500 for persons aged 50 years and over. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invis- ibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange con- trol approval. Changes During 1990 Exchange Arrangement February 19. A dual exchange system, consisting of the official exchange rate (OER) and the market exchange rate (MER), was introduced. The OER is pegged to the SDR, with the U.S. dollar being the intervention currency. The Bank of Zambia would apply the OER to purchases of foreign exchange from metal export earnings and to sales of foreign exchange previously allocated by the Foreign Ex- change Management Committee, and for all other purposes, except those for which foreign exchange is sold at the MER. The Bank of Zambia would purchase all other foreign exchange receipts at the MER. Sales of foreign exchange at the MER would be permitted under a system of open general license against a list of imports considered essential for the production process and for transportation services. April 6. The list of imports to which the MER is applied was expanded to include certain chemicals and spare parts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 562 ZAMBIA June 1. The list of imports to which the MER is applied was expanded to include additional raw materials and spare parts. July 9. The list of imports to which the MER is applied was expanded to include additional raw materials and certain machinery. September 14. The list of imports to which the MER is applied was expanded to include certain metals, specialized machinery, and office and automatic data processing equipment. Administration of Control November 16. The Foreign Exchange Management Committee was abolished. Nonresident Accounts October 20. The Bank of Zambia permitted non- resident Zambians and resident Zambians working for international organizations to open nonresident accounts in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling with commercial banks. The opening of such accounts would require prior approval from the Bank of Zambia. Imports and Import Payments November 7. The Bank of Zambia issued a circular clarifying the procedures for imports of goods at the MER. It specified, inter alia, that all payments must be made by documentary irrevocable letters of credit. For import values up to US$50,000, only one invoice price quotation was required; for import values between US$50,000 and US$500,000, three separate invoice price quotations were required to be submitted; for import values over US$500,000, the importer was required to provide evidence that he had attempted to obtain the most competitive price through International Competitive Bidding. November 12. The list of imports to which the MER is applied was extended to include textile products, refrigeration equipment, tractors, large trucks, and other equipment. Decembers. The list of imports to which the MER is applied was extended to include wheat, rice, bar- ley, other cereals and cereal preparation, and textile products. December 21. The list of imports to which the MER is applied was extended to include grease, parts for buses and trucks, and other equipment. Payments for Invisibles September 14. Foreign exchange to pay for the fol- lowing services would be sold at the MER: (1) travel abroad other than for medical or educational pur- poses; (2) inducement allowances and gratuity for expatriate workers; and (3) subscription payments. Foreign exchange for education and medical treat- ment abroad would continue to be sold at the OER. December 3. Foreign exchange for education and medical treatment abroad would be sold at the MER. Exports and Export Proceeds April 6. Procedures for the export retention scheme were simplified, whereby exporters could retain entitlements in foreign currency instead of converting them into kwacha. Foreign exchange in- centives for nontraditional agricultural products were expanded to include wheat seeds, soybean seeds, and barley. September 4. Export procedures were simplified by replacing Exchange Control Forms and Customs Exports Bills of Entry with a single Export Declara- tion Form. At the same time, the export-licensing system was liberalized, and export permits from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry would no longer be required; instead, licenses would be is- sued by the exporter's commercial bank, except for goods on a negative list for which authorization by the Ministry of Commerce would continue to be required. September 20. The period during which exporters were required to utilize the retained foreign ex- change earnings was extended to six months from three months. November 16. The retention rate for exporters of gemstones was raised to 50 percent from 20 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position on December 31, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dol- lar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for major currencies and 1.0 percent for other currencies. An additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies may be charged by authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks). The authorized dealers base their rates for other currencies on current international market rates. On December 31,1990, the buying and selling rates were US$0.3808 and US$0.3778, respectively, per Z$l. A tax of 20 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for purposes of holiday travel. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the amount of such contracts, but they must be limited to periods of three to five years, with a loading of 5 percent a year up to 25 percent. The Reserve Bank is prepared to cover forward transactions and, at present, quotes fixed discount and/or premium rates for major currencies. The Reserve Bank pur- chases foreign exchange at the spot preferential telex transfer rate quoted to authorized dealers, less 0.35 percent for three-month contracts and an addi- tional 0.10 percent for each month beyond three months up to 0.65 percent for a six-month contract. Sales of foreign exchange take place at the spot preferential telex transfer rate plus 0.65 percent for three-month contracts and an additional 0.30 per- cent for each month up to 1.55 percent for a six- month contract. Authorized dealers are expected to quote to their customers their own telex transfer (sight rates plus or minus the margins applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank, under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, Economic Planning, and Development under the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Autho- rized dealers have been empowered to approve cer- tain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Au- thorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars, issued periodically. Import and export controls are administered in ac- cordance with the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Agriculture) Regulations of 1965, as amended; the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) Regulations of 1974, as amended; the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979; the Control of Goods (Open General Import License) Notice of 1979; and the Control of Goods (Open General Export License) Notice, 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,1 with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Under the Clearing House Agreement, which went into effect on February 1, 1984, within the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), residents of member countries can use na- tional currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by per- sons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emi- grants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are strictly subject to various exchange restrictions. 1 There are 17 denominated currencies that are freely convert- ible through authorized dealers: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 563 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 564 ZIMBABWE Imports and Import Payments With the exception of products covered by the Open General Import License (OGIL), all imports are subject to licensing requirements. Import li- censes are issued only against a certificate of foreign exchange allocation. Global foreign exchange alloca- tions are decided by an Interministerial Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Finance, Economic Plan- ning, and Development, and are made available through the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, which also handles allocations for goods in the com- mercial and industrial categories. Imports in the commercial category include im- ports by merchants of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts for resale to manufacturers and the public sector, as well as consumer goods; those in the industrial category consist of direct importation by industrialists of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, individual products are classified into five categories according to the degree of essentiality. (In the manufacturing sector, because of employ- ment considerations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allocated to individual commercial importers for single tariff items (with facilities for a limited degree of trans- ferability between items), whereas foreign ex- change allocated to manufacturers is for a group of tariff items appropriate to the industrial division concerned. Manufacturers receive separate allocations for raw materials required for production for the local and export markets; the former is assessed on the basis of priority and foreign exchange availability, and the latter is in the form of initial allocations based on past performance, with possible addi- tional allocation from an export-revolving fund against proof of exports. Industrial exporters may also receive a supplementary allocation, deter- mined on the basis of their incremental export per- formance, to import raw materials to be used in production for the domestic market. Export- oriented mining and agricultural firms may obtain supplemental allocations under the export promo- tion programs. In addition, under the export reten- tion scheme, firms in the manufacturing, agricul- ture, tourism, construction, and transportation sectors are entitled to receive additional foreign ex- change allocations. Import licenses have to be drawn against foreign exchange allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. The normal validity of import licenses is 12 months from the end of the month of issue, but this period can be extended in certain circum- stances. Import licenses are normally issued with- out geographical restriction, and importers are free to choose the country of supply. Licenses are issued on an f .o .b. basis and do not, therefore, cover the invisibles element of the transactions. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agri- cultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soy- beans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided the necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is sub- mitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 35 percent of the c . i .f. value, and specific duties on a number of prod- ucts. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax of between 12 Vz percent and 20 percent, equiv- alent to the sales taxes imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestically. Most imports are subject to a surtax of 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits for other pur- poses, is provided by commercial banks under dele- gated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. On October 1, 1990, new regulations governing foreign direct investments and remittances of profits and dividends were introduced. In princi- ple, foreign investors are allowed to remit between 50 percent and 100 percent of after-tax profits on investments subject to certain conditions. The fol- lowing regulations apply to the export sector: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that meets the cri- teria to qualify as an export firm and funds its pro- jects through a combination of foreign exchange, switched blocked funds, or surplus funds is permit- ted to remit the declared dividends from net after- tax profits on a basis proportionate to the level of foreign exchange invested, limited to a minimum of 50 percent for a period of five years from the begin- ning of operations, after which the company will qualify for 100 percent remittance of dividends ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 565 (blocked and surplus funds are assets held by for- eigners as a result of the limited remittance of divi- dends; "switched blocked funds" refers to blocked funds that have been purchased by a foreigner from the original owner); and (2) a wholly foreign- owned company with its own blocked funds is per- mitted to repatriate 100 percent of its declared divi- dends, provided that all of its foreign exchange requirements are met from external sources. The following regulations apply to investments in the mining sector: (1) a wholly foreign-owned com- pany that funds its projects through foreign funds is allowed to repatriate 100 percent of its net after- tax profits, provided that it qualifies as an export- oriented project; (2) a wholly foreign-owned com- pany that funds its projects through a combination of foreign funds and either its own blocked funds, switched blocked funds, or surplus funds, subject to a minimum matching formula of 50/50, is allowed to remit dividends up to 50 percent in proportion to the matching ratio; and (3) the level of dividend remittance for joint ventures subject to the mini- mum 30 percent local participation criterion is also determined by the matching formula used by the foreign shareholder. After five years, the company can remit the full 100 percent dividends to the for- eign shareholder. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$60 a day, up to a maximum of Z$450 for a 12-month period. (Children under 10 years are en- titled to one half of these amounts.) The allowance may be accumulated up to three years, but it is not granted in advance. The basic foreign exchange al- lowance for import-related business travel is Z$300 a day, up to a maximum of Z$3,000 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$6,000; for export- related business travel, the exchange allowance is Z$350 a day, up to a maximum of Z$4,000 a trip and Z$8,000 a year. Applications for business travel al- lowance exceeding the specified limits are subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank and are treated favorably, especially those for export-related trips. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level within the following limits: Z$4,000 a year for education at universities other than those in the United States and the United Kingdom, and Z$10,000 a year for education at specified universities in the United States and the United Kingdom. For medical treat- ment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$100 a day for a maximum of 30 days for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Remit- tances of up to Z$100 for subscriptions to religious and educational societies, and Z$20 for other so- cieties are allowed; the limit for an initial member- ship fee is Z$100. Remittances to close relatives per- manently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceed- ing Z$30 a month for each individual beneficiary and Z$60 a month for each family unit, are permit- ted with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Outward remittances in respect of fees for technical, admin- istrative, management, and consultancy services, or to defray external expenses of local branches are subject to a tax of 20 percent. Applications for emigrant status must be submit- ted to the Reserve Bank. Beginning March 27,1984, the settling-in allowance that can be remitted abroad by emigrants is limited to Z$l,000 a family unit. In exceptional and deserving cases, the ex- change control authorities will consider applications exceeding this maximum. Beginning April 1, 1984, all those applying for emigrant status have been required to take steps to liquidate their assets within six months and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4 percent, 12-year Government of Zimbabwe external bonds. In excep- tional cases of emigrants unable to comply with the six-month limit, the matter may be referred to the Reserve Bank. Transferable allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$l,000; (3) family units and single persons with dependents (under 60 years of age), Z$l,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) per- sons over 80 years of age, Z$10,000; and (6) hand- icapped or disabled persons, Z$10,000. A further release of capital was authorized as an annual al- lowance on each anniversary date of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out, as part of the travel allowance, not more than Z$100 in Zimbabwean currency together with a maximum of the equivalent of Z$20 in foreign bank notes. Non- resident travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in, less the amount sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zimbabwe, nonresi- dent travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies on presentation of exchange certificates. All nonresident travelers are required to pay an airport tax of US$10 on departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required to export certain products that are not covered by the Open General License System; these include (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufactured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 ZIMBABWE products; (3) jute and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitu- men, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. In addition to security and social reasons, export- licensing requirements are intended to ensure ade- quate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission, unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or will be made within three months of the date of shipment or such longer period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank. Payments for exports must be received in one of the following ways: (1) in a de- nominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respectively. Under the PTA arrangement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), member countries can use na- tional currencies in the settlement of payments dur- ing a transaction period of two months, with net balances at the end of this period to be settled in convertible currencies. Exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed before exporta- tion by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to authorized dealers. Since August 1, 1984, an export subsidy at the rate of 9 percent of the f .o.b. value has been granted on specified exports of nontraditional products with a minimum domestic value added of 25 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must to be sold to autho- rized banks within a reasonable time. Residents performing professional services abroad are not permitted to retain any part of their foreign ex- change earnings, and such earnings are required to be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without restric- tion but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean currency up to a maximum of Z$40. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal bank- ing channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled. On the other hand, all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation after two years, subject to the requirement that the amount to be repatriated will be reduced by any profits remitted in the interim. Where such authority is granted, the balance may be transferred only through the estab- lished medium of six-year external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. The repatriation of capital invested before Sep- tember 1,1979 is prohibited; however, shareholders are allowed within limits to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such application is approved, the capital is invested in external govern- ment bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year and carrying a maturity of 12 years in the case of individuals, or 20 years in the case of firms.2 From March 27, 1984, former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in Government of Zimbabwe ex- ternal bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4 percent. Remittance of the Zimbabwean pension of a former resident is guar- anteed under the constitution. All other outward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. Previously blocked funds, whether already con- verted into government bonds or not, can qualify as new venture capital if they are reinvested in Zim- babwe in an approved project and matched by an inflow of investment funds of between zero and 50 percent of the reinvested blocked funds, as deter- mined by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. From April 1989, blocked funds are allowed to be utilized for investment by third parties, foreign as well as domestic investors, at freely negotiated terms. As new venture capital, the total investment will be eligible to be remitted as dividends for up to 50 per- cent of after-tax profits. However, the "blocked" portion of the new investment, unlike new venture capital, must remain reinvested in Zimbabwe for a minimum of five years depending on individual cases. Gold The exportation of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed under the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979, which is administered by the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal and certain other specified metals and minerals unless he holds 2Effective January 20, 1989, repatriation at accelerated rates, depending on discounted sales prices of net equity, is allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 567 an export license; no such licenses for gold are is- sued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which provides for certain requirements to be met when a person intends to import gold into Zimbabwe. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless (1) he is the holder of a license or permit; (2) he is the holder or dis- tributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) he is the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above, and is authorized by his employer or principal to deal in or possess gold in the lawful possession of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing him to acquire, to be in possession of, or to dispose of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed 1 troy ounce. In all other cases, permis- sion can be issued only by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe, Ltd., is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the act. Each holder or distributor of a registered mining location is required to lodge with this bank all gold acquired by him during his operations by the tenth day of the month following that in which the gold was produced. When a person intends to smelt any gold or any article containing gold, he must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Second Hand Goods Act authorizing him to be in possession of smelting equipment. Changes During 1990 Imports and Import Payments October 1. Eight items deemed to be of particular importance to the export industry (plastic granules, tin plate, dyes, dyeing chemicals, binders, color- ants, pigments, and klinker) were placed on the Open General Import License (OGIL) list, and some adjustments were made to the existing OGIL list. Payments for Invisibles October 1. The following regulations governing foreign direct investments and remittances of profits and dividends were introduced: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that meets certain export criteria with respect to new projects would be guar- anteed the right to repatriate fully all declared divi- dends; (2) a joint venture export company would also be guaranteed the right to repatriate fully all declared dividends in respect of the foreign share- holder; and (3) all other companies not qualifying as exporters would be allowed to remit dividends in terms of the exchange control policy. In addition, the following regulations governing foreign direct investments in existing export pro- jects other than mining projects were introduced: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that meets the criteria to qualify as an export firm and funds its projects through a combination of foreign ex- change, switched blocked funds, or surplus funds would be permitted to remit the declared dividends from net after-tax profits on a basis that is propor- tional to the level of foreign exchange invested and limited to a minimum of 50 percent for five years from the beginning of operations. After that time, the company will qualify for remittance of 100 per- cent of dividends (blocked and surplus funds are assets held by foreigners as a result of limited divi- dend remittance; "switched blocked funds" refers to blocked funds that have been purchased by a foreigner from the original owner); and (2) a wholly foreign-owned company with its own blocked funds would be permitted to repatriate 100 percent of its declared dividends, provided that all of its foreign exchange requirements are met from exter- nal sources. With regard to existing mining opera- tions, the following regulations came into effect: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that funds its projects with foreign funds would be permitted to repatriate 100 percent of its net after-tax profits, provided that the criteria of an export-oriented pro- ject are met; (2) a wholly foreign-owned company that funds its projects through a combination of foreign funds, and either its own blocked funds, switched blocked funds, or surplus funds, subject to a minimum matching formula of 50/50, would be allowed to remit dividends up to 50 percent in pro- portion to the matching ratio; and (3) the level of dividend remittance of a joint venture, subject to a minimum of 30 percent participation, would be de- termined in the same way, that is, by the foreign shareholder's utilization of the matching formula. Af ter five years, the company would qualify to remit 100 percent of its dividends to the foreign shareholder. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX European Economic Community: Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated on an EEC-Wide Basis During 19901 Antidumping Duties 1. Introduction January 16. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of certain compact disc players originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea (Council Regulation No. 112/90). January 23. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of electronic microcircuits known as DRAMs (dynamic random access memories) originating in Japan (Commission Regulation No. 165/95). February 5. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of ferrosilicon originating in Ice- land, Norway, Sweden, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia (Council Regulation No. 341/90). February 12. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of potassium permanganate orig- inating in Czechoslovakia (Council Regulation No. 385/90). March 2. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of glutamic acid and its salts orig- inating in Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan Province of China, and Thailand (Commission Reg- ulation No. 547/90). March 16. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of ferroboron alloy originating in Japan (Commission Regulation No. 665/90). March 22. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of silicon metal originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 720/90). March 26. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of tungsten carbide and fused tungsten carbide originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 736/90). March 26. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of tungstic oxide and tungstic acid originating in the People's Republic of China (Com- mission Regulation No. 762/90). March 26. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of tungsten ores and concentrates originating in the People's Republic of China (Com- mission Regulation No. 761/90). April 2. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of certain welded tubes of iron or 1 Source: Official Journal of the European Communities nonalloy steel originating in Romania and Yugoslavia (Council Regulation No. 868/90). April 25. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of small-screen color television receivers originating in the Republic of Korea (Council Regulation No. 1048/90). May 21. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of certain types of DRAMs orig- inating in Japan (Council Regulation No. 1361/90). May 28. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of potassium permanganate orig- inating in the U.S.S.R. (Commission Regulation No. 1537/90). June 13. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of ball bearings with a greatest external diameter not exceeding 30 mm originating in Thailand (Commission Regulation No. 1613/90). June 27. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of monosodium glutamate orig- inating in Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan Province of China, and Thailand (Council Regula- tion No. 1798/90). July 4. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of pure silk typewriter ribbon fabrics originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 1937/90). July 16. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of ferroboron originating in Japan (Council Regulation No. 2036/90). July 17. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of woven polyolefin sacks orig- inating in the People's Republic of China (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2051/90). July 17. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of linear tungsten halogen lamps originating in Japan (Commission Regulation No. 2064/90). July 23. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of certain types of DRAMs orig- inating in Japan (Council Regulation No. 2112/90). July 27. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of silicon metal originating in the People's Republic of China (Council Regulation No. 2200/90). September 24. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of tungsten carbide and fused tungsten carbide originating in the People's Re- public of China (Council Regulation No. 2737/90). September 24. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of tungstic oxide and tungstic 569 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 570 APPENDIX acid originating in the People's Republic of China (Council Regulation No. 2736/90). September 24. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of tungsten ores and concen- trates originating in the People's Republic of China (Council Regulation No. 2735/90). October 9. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of ball bearings with a greatest external diameter not exceeding 30 mm originating in Thailand (Council Regulation No. 2934/90). November 5. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of pure silk typewriter ribbon fabrics originating in the People's Republic of China (Council Regulation No. 3200/90). November 5. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of audio tapes in cassettes orig- inating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, and Hong Kong (Commission Regulation No. 3262/90). November 15. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of woven polyolefin sacks orig- inating in the People's Republic of China (Council Regulation No. 3308/90). November 26. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of aspartame originating in Japan (Commission Regulation No. 3421/90). December 11. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain welded tubes of iron or nonalloy steel originating in Turkey and Venezu- ela (Commission Regulation No. 3617/90). December 21. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of espadrilles originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 3798/90). 2. Extension February 5. Provisional antidumping duty on im- ports of welded tubes and iron or nonalloy steel, originating in Romania and Yugoslavia was ex- tended (Council Regulation No. 342/90). February 12. Provisional antidumping duty on im- ports of small-screen color television receivers orig- inating in the Republic of Korea was extended (Council Regulation No. 374/90). July 23. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of tungsten ores and concentrates originating in the People's Republic of China was extended (Council Regulation No. 2128/90). July 23. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of tungsten carbide and fused tungsten carbide originating in the People's Republic of China was extended (Council Regulation No. 2127/90). July 23. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of tungstic oxide and tungstic acid originating in the People's Republic of China was extended (Council Regulation No. 2126/90). October 5. Provisional antidumping duty on im- ports of potassium permanganate originating in the U.S.S.R. was extended (Council Regulation No. 2896/90). November 15. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of linear tungsten halogen lamps originat- ing in Japan was extended (Council Regulation No. 3307/90). 3. Elimination February 26. Definitive antidumping duty on im- ports of vinyl acetate monomer originating in Can- ada and the United States was eliminated (Council Regulations No. 1826/90 and No. 1282/81). July 26. Antidumping duty on imports of certain single-phase, two-speed electric motors originating in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and Romania was eliminated (Council Regulation No. 90/399/EEC). September 17. Definitive antidumping duty on im- ports of mechanical wristwatches originating in the U.S.S.R. was eliminated (Council Regulation No. 2686/90). Countervailing Charges 1. Introduction January 3. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh Clementines originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 6/90). January 22. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of artichokes originating in Egypt (Com- mission Regulation No. 156/90). January 25. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cabbage lettuces originating in the United States (Commission Regulation No. 193/90). January 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 228/90). February 1. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cabbage lettuces originating in the United States (Commission Regulation No. 293/90). February 2. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 303/90). February 13. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of artichokes originating in Egypt (Com- mission Regulation No. 372/90). February 13. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 373/90). February 21. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 440/90). March 16. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cabbage lettuces originating in the United States (Commission Regulation No. 655/90). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 571 March 19. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Com- mission Regulation No. 671/90). March 29. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cucumbers originating in Bulgaria (Com- mission Regulation No. 785/90). April 9. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in the Canary Is- lands (Commission Regulation No. 912/90). April 11. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Israel (Com- mission Regulation No. 954790). April 11. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Morocco (Com- mission Regulation No. 953/90). April 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Israel (Commis- sion Regulation No. 966/90). April 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Israel (Com- mission Regulation No. 1002/90). April 25. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Turkey (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1026/90). April 27. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of eggplants originating in the Canary Is- lands. (Commission Regulation No. 1081/90). April 27. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Albania (Com- mission Regulation No. 1083/90). May 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in the Canary Is- lands (Commission Regulation No. 1227/90). May 23. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Albania. (Com- mission Regulation No. 1398/90). May 29. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Portugal (Com- mission Regulation No. 1433/90). June 21. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1687/90). June 21. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cucumbers originating in Poland (Com- mission Regulation No. 1686/90). June 22. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Albania (Com- mission Regulation No. 1711/90). June 22. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cherries originating in Bulgaria (Com- mission Regulation No. 1712/90). June 25. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Portugal (Com- mission Regulation No. 1727/90). June 28. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 1788/90). July 3. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commission Regulation No. 1883/90). July 11. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cherries originating in the Islamic Re- public of Iran (Commission Regulation No. 1993/90). August 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of table grapes originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 2386/90). August 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Bulgaria. (Commission Regulation No. 2410/90). August 30. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Bulgaria (Commission Regulation No. 2503/90). September 4. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2559/90). September 21. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2714/90). September 27. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 2792/90). October 8. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in South Africa (Com- mission Regulation No. 2904/90). October 8. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2905/90). October 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in South Africa (Commission Regulation No. 2999/90). November 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 3397/90). December 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh Clementines originating in Mo- rocco (Commission Regulation No. 3519/90). 2. Amendment February 6. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was amended (Commission Regulation No. 316/90). February 12. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was amended (Commission Regulation No. 366/90). February 19. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was amended (Commission Regulation No. 228/90). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 APPENDIX February 20. Countervailing charge on imports of artichokes originating in Egypt was amended (Commission Regulation No. 432/90). February 23. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was amended (Commission Regulation No. 473/90). February 28. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was amended (Commission Regulation No. 530/90). March 1. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was amended (Commission Regulation No. 535/90). March 7. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was amended (Commission Regulation No. 584/90). March 13. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was amended (Commission Regulation No. 609/90). March 19. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was amended (Commission Regulation No. 672/90). March 26. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was amended (Commission Regulation No. 725/90). March 29. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was amended (Commission Regulation No. 782/90). April 5. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was amended (Com- mission Regulation No. 873/90). April 9. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was amended (Com- mission Regulation No. 907/90). April 19. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was amended (Commission Regulation No. 989/90). June 7. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Portugal was amended (Commission Regulation No. 1543/90). July 5. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 1920/90). July 10. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was amended (Com- mission Regulation No. 1970/90). July 11. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 1992/90). July 18. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2054/90). August 20. Countervailing charge on imports of table grapes originating in Cyprus was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2419/90). August 24. Countervailing charge on imports of table grapes originating in Cyprus was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2462/90). September 13. Countervailing charge on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2638/90). October 16. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland was amended (Com- mission Regulation No. 2990/90). December 27. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh Clementines originating in Morocco was amended (Commission Regulation No. 3519/90). 3. Elimination January 4. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh Clementines originating in Tunisia was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 17/90). January 29. Countervailing charge on imports of artichokes originating in Egypt was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 237/90). February 1. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh Clementines originating in Turkey was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 292/90). February 7. Countervailing charge on imports of cabbage lettuces originating in the United States was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 328/90). March 22. Countervailing charge on imports of cab- bage lettuces originating in the United States was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 699/90). March 23. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh sweet oranges originating in Egypt was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 711/90). April 17. Countervailing charge on imports of cucumbers originating in Bulgaria was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 965/90). April 17. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 963/90). April 18. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in the Canary Islands was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 976/90). April 19. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 988/90). April 24. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Israel was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 1015/90). April 27. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1082/90). May 7. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1160/90). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 573 May 8. Countervailing charge on imports of egg- plants originating in the Canary Islands was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 1173/90). May 10. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Albania was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1226/90). May 18. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1311/90). May 29. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1432/90). June 11. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Albania was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1566/90). June 14. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Portugal was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1601/90). July 2. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1871/90). July 2. Countervailing charge on imports of cucumbers originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1872/90). July 4. Countervailing charge on imports of cher- ries originating in Poland was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1900/90). July 5. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Portugal was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1919/90). July 17. Countervailing charge on imports of cher- ries originating in Iran was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2035/90). July 20. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2088/90). July 24. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2119/90). July 31. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2255/90). August 3. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 2310/90). August 16. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 2401/90). August 20. Countervailing charge on imports of table grapes originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2418/90). August 28. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 2479/90). August 30. Countervailing charge on imports of table grapes originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2502/90). August 31. Countervailing charge on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Romania was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2546/90). September 7. Countervailing charge on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Romania was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2605/90). October 5. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2893/90). October 26. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3111/90). Community Tariff Quotas Establishment March 5. Community tariff quota was established on imports of Chinese cabbages originating in the Canary Islands (Council Regulation No. 565/90). March 12. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of quality wines originating in the specified regions of Jerez, Malaga, Jumilla, Priorato, Rioja, and Valdepenas (Council Regulation No. 626/90). March 2. Community tariff quota was established on imports of cut flowers and flower buds, fresh, originating in Cyprus, Israel, Jordan, and Morocco (Council Regulation No. 728/90). March 22. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of certain wines originating in Morocco (Council Regulation No. 727/90). March 22. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of apricot pulp originating in Tur- key (Council Regulation No. 726/90). April 2. Community tariff quota was established on imports of hexachlorocyclohexane falling under CN Code 2903-51-00 originating in China (Com- mission Regulation No. 847/90). May 7. Community tariff quota was established on imports of certain quality wines and sparkling wines originating in Austria (Council Regulation No. 1255/90). May 7. Community tariff quota was established on imports of certain agricultural and chemical products falling under CN Code 09-2701 (Council Regulation No. 1256/90). May 7. Community tariff quota was established on imports of certain agricultural products originat- ing in Cyprus, Morocco, and Israel (Council Regula- tion No. 1275/90). June 18. Community tariff quota was established on imports of herrings, fresh or chilled, originating in Sweden (Council Regulation No. 1654/90). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 574 APPENDIX June 18. Community tariff quota was established on imports of certain textile products originating in Yugoslavia (Commission Regulation No. 1645/90). June 20. Community tariff quota was established on imports of certain agricultural products originat- ing in the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) States (Commission Regulation No. 1664/90). June 27. Community tariff quota was established on imports of rum, tafia, and arrack originating in the overseas countries (Council Regulation No. 1800/90). June 27. Community tariff quota was established on imports of rum, tafia, and arrack originating in the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) States (Council Regulation No. 1799/90). November 5. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of dried figs originating in Spain (Council Regulation No. 3229/90). November 5. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of certain kinds of prepared or preserved tuna originating in Portugal (Council Regulation No. 3228/90). November 8. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of ferrochromium containing more than 6 percent by weight of carbon (Council Regulation No. 3273/90). November 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of beer made from malt originat- ing in Malta (Council Regulation No. 3346/90). November 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of frozen peas originating in Swe- den (Council Regulation No. 3403/90). November 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of certain products originating in Yugoslavia (Council Regulation No. 3413/90). November 19. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of fresh or dried hazelnuts, shelled and unshelled, originating in Turkey (Coun- cil Regulation No. 3348/90). November 19. Community tar iff quota was estab- lished on imports of certain agricultural products originating in Cyprus (Council Regulation No. 3347/90). December 4. Community tariff quota was estab- lished on imports of certain agricultural and fishery products originating in certain EFTA countries (Council Regulation No. 3523/90). Preferential Customs Duties 1. Suspension (and reintroduction of Common Customs Tariff duty) January 9. Preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 42/90). January 22. Preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of large roses originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 152/90). February 12. Preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of large roses originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 363/90). March 2. Preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 543/90). March 2. Preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 544/90). May 8. Preferential customs duty was suspended, and Common Customs Tariff duty was re- introduced on imports of uniflorous (standard) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 1178/90). November 19. Preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of multiflorous (spray) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 3329/90). November 19. Preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3330/90). December 7. Preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3548/90). 2. Re-establishment January 22. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 153/90). January 31. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 277/90). February 19. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 422/90). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 575 April 27. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 1078/90). May 3. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of uniflorous (bloom) carna- tions originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1138/90). June 13. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of uniflorous (bloom) carna- tions originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1583/90). June 15. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of unrecorded media falling under CN Codes 8523 and 8524 originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 1631/90). June 15. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of dresses, blouses, and shirt-blouses of silk or of noil, or on other waste silk, of textile fabrics, and of certain products (listed in Category 159, Order No. 42.1590) originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 1639/90). June 27. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of certain products originat- ing in Yugoslavia (Commission Regulation No. 1753/90). July 11. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of multiflorous (spray) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 1985/90). July 11. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1986/90). July 11. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1987/90). December 13. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of uniflorous (standard) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 3606/90). December 21. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3769/90). Generalized Tariff Preferences Withdrawal March 30. Customs duty was re-established on imports of women's or girls' suits and ensembles (listed in Category 74, Order No. 40.0740) and gar- ments (listed in Category 74, Order No. 40.0740) originating in India (Commission Regulation No. 844/90). March 30. Customs duty was re-established on imports of men's or boys' suits and ensembles (listed in Category 16, Order No. 40.0160) and wo- men's or girls' suits and ensembles (listed in Cate- gory 24, Order No. 40.0740) originating in Thailand (Commission Regulation No. 842/90). March 30. Customs duty was re-established on imports of women's or girls' dresses and ensembles (listed in Category 16, Order No. 40.0260) and wo- men's or girls' suits and ensembles (listed in Cate- gory 29, Order No. 40.0290) originating in Pakistan (Commission Regulation No. 843/90). April 2. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of footwear falling under CN Codes 6401 and 6402 originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 845/90). April 11. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of footwear falling under CN Codes 6401 and 6402 originating in Indonesia (Commission Regula- tion No. 938/90). April 11. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of copper bars, rods, profiles, tubes, and pipes falling under CN Codes 7407 and 7411 orig- inating in Mexico (Commission Regulation No. 939/90). April 11. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of reception apparatus falling under CN Codes 8527, 8528, and 8529 originating in the Peo- ple's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 940/90). April 11. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of reception apparatus falling under CN Codes 8527, 8528, and 8529 originating in Malaysia (Commission Regulation No. 941/90). May 8. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of footwear falling under CN Codes 6404 and 6405-90-10 originating in Thailand (Commission Regulation No. 1245/90). May 8. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of products falling under CN Code 2930-90- 10 (Order No. 10.0290) originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 1244/90). July 11. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of footwear falling under CN Codes 6401 and 6402 originating in Malaysia (Commission Regula- tion No. 1980/90). July 11. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of footwear falling under CN Codes 6401 and 6402 originating in the Philippines (Commission Regulation No. 1981/90). July 11. Customs duty was re-established on im- ports of tableware falling under CN Code 6912-00- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 576 APPENDIX 50 originating in Brazil (Commission Regulation No. 1982/90). August 1. Customs duty was re-established on imports of footwear falling under CN Codes 6404 and 6405-90-10 originating in the Philippines (Commission Regulation No. 2264/90). August 2. Customs duty was re-established on imports of synthetic camphor falling under CN Code 2914r-21-00 originating in the People's Re- public of China (Commission Regulation No. 2284/90). September 7. Customs duty was re-established on imports of products falling under CN Code 3503- 00-10 originating in Brazil (Commission Regulation No. 2600/90). September 17. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain track suits (listed in Category 73, Order No. 40.0730) originating in Indonesia, the Philippines, and Pakistan (Commission Regulation No. 2664/90). September 17. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain twine, cordage, ropes, and ca- bles, of synthetic fiber (listed in Category 90, Order No. 40.0900) originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2665/90). September 17. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain twine, cordage, ropes and cables, of synthetic fibers (listed in Category 90, Order No. 40.0900) and certain articles (listed in Category 98, Order No. 40.0980) originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 2666/90). September 17. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain pullovers and similar knitted or crocheted pullovers (listed in Category 5, Order No. 40.0050) and certain articles (listed in Category 98, Order No. 40.0980) originating in India (Com- mission Regulation No. 2667/90). September 17. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 7, Order No. 40.0070) originating in Malaysia (Com- mission Regulation No. 2668/90). September 17. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain underpants and briefs (listed in Category 13, Order No. 40.0130) originating in Thai- land (Commission Regulation No. 2669/90). September 17. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain suits and ensembles (listed in Category 74, Order No. 40.0740) originating in Bra- zil (Commission Regulation No. 2670/90). September 17. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain knitted and crocheted products (listed in Category 4, Order No. 40.0040 and Cate- gory 74, Order No. 40.0740) originating in Indo- nesia (Commission Regulation No. 2671/90). September 28. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 20, Order No. 40.0200) originating in Thailand (Com- mission Regulation No. 2845/90). October 11. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Categories 16, 17, and 21, Order Nos. 40.0160, 40.0170, and 40.0210) originating in Indonesia (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2970/90). October 11. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 21, Order No. 40.0210) originating in India (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2971/90). October 11. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 29, Order No. 40.0290) originating in Thailand (Com- mission Regulation No. 2972/90). October 11. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 39, Order No. 40.0390) originating in Pakistan (Com- mission Regulation No. 2973/90). October 15. Customs duty was re-established on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 2976/90). October 15. Customs duty was re-established on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 2977/90). October 24. Customs duty was re-established on imports of uniflorous (standard) carnations orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3054/90). October 24. Customs duty was re-established on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originat- ing in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3055/90). November 9. Customs duty was re-established on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originat- ing in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3243/90). November 9. Customs duty was re-established on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3244/90). November 9. Customs duty was re-established on imports of products falling under CN Code 2915- 70-10 originating in Malaysia (Commission Regula- tion No. 3248/90). November 13. Customs duty was re-established on imports of products falling under CN Code 2922- 41-00 originating in Mexico (Commission Regula- tion No. 3279/90). November 13. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products falling under Code 3503-00-10 originating in Pakistan (Commission Regulation No. 3280/90). November 26. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 18, Order No. 40.0180) originating in Pakistan (Com- mission Regulation No. 3385/90). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 577 November 26. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 23, Order No. 40.0230; and Category 37, Order No. 40.0370) originating in Indonesia (Commission Regulation No. 3386/90). November 26. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 65, Order No. 40.0650) originating in Argentina (Com- mission Regulation No. 3387/90). November 26. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 65, Order No. 40.0650; Category 74, Order No. 40.0740; and Category 75, Order No. 40.0750) originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3388/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of products falling under CN Code 3105 originating in Poland (Commission Regulation No. 3407/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of products falling under CN Codes 3903, 3915-20-00, 3920-30-00, and 3920-99-50 originat- ing in Mexico (Commission Regulation No. 3408/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products falling under CN Code 4104 originating in Argentina (Commission Regula- tion No. 3409/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products falling under CN Code 8541-60-00 originating in Malaysia (Commission Regulation No. 3410/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 15, Order No. 40.01250) originating in Pakistan, Thai- land, and Indonesia (Commission Regulation No. 3425/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 16, Order No. 40.0160) originating in India (Commis- sion Regulation No. 4326/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 23, Order No. 40.0230) originating in Hungary (Com- mission Regulation No. 3427/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 37, Order No. 40.0370) originating in Pakistan (Com- mission Regulation No. 3428/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 37, Order No. 40.0370; and Category 75, Order No. 40.0750) originating in Thailand (Commission Regulation No. 3429/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 22, Order No. 40.0220; and Category 127, Order No. 42.127) originating in India (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3897/90). November 27. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 146A, Order No. 42.1461) originating in Mexico (Commission Regulation No. 3431/90). November 30. Customs duty was re-established on imports of products falling under CN Code 2817- 00-00 originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 3478/90). November 30. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products falling under CN Code 4203 originating in India (Commission Regulation No. 3479/90). December 3. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products falling under CN Code 4203 originating in Pakistan (Commission Regula- tion No. 3506/90). December 11. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products falling under CN Code 2940-00-90 originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 3581/90). December 13. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products falling under CN Code 3901-20-00 originating in Mexico (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3618/90). December 21. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 28, Order No. 40.0280) originating in Thailand and Pakistan (Commission Regulation No. 3891/90). December 21. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 97, Order No. 40.0970) originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 3892/90). December 21. Customs duty was re-established on imports of certain products (listed in Category 27, Order No. 40.0270) originating in India (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3799/90). Import Surveillance/Supervision January 31. Imports of footwear originating in all non-EEC member countries were subject to Community surveillance (Commission Regulation No. 274/90). June 18. Imports of sour cherries, fresh, originat- ing in Yugoslavia were subject to Community sur- veillance (Council Regulation No. 1656/90). June 21. Imports of certain types of footwear orig- inating in the Republic of Korea and Taiwan Province of China were subject to Community sur- veillance (Commission Regulation No. 1656/90). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 578 APPENDIX October 4. Imports of certain textiles products orig- inating in Tunisia and Morocco were subject to Com- munity surveillance (Commission Regulation No. 2876/90). October 22. Imports of .certain types of footwear originating in the Republic of Korea and Taiwan Province of China were subject to Community sur- veillance (Council Regulation No. 3050/90). November 5. Imports of certain agricultural prod- ucts originating in Canary Islands were subject to Community supervision (Council Regulation No. 3231/90). November 19. Imports of certain products originat- ing in Yugoslavia were subject to Community sur- veillance (Council Regulation No. 3412/90). December 27. Imports of certain textiles originating in Malta, Egypt, and Turkey were subject to Com- munity surveillance (Commission Regulation No. 3889/90). Transitional Tariff Measures December 4. Import duties under the meaning of Article I of Council Regulation No. 2144(87), as amended by Council Regulation No. 4108/88, in- cluding existing antidumping duties, were sus- pended for products originating in Bulgaria, Czech- oslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia until December 31, 1992, in light of the unification of Germany (Council Reg- ulation No. 3568/90). December 19. Customs duties applied to prod- ucts covered by the ECSC Treaty, including anti- dumping duties, were suspended for products originating in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Yugoslavia until December 31,1992, in light of the unification of Germany (Commission Decision No. 3788/90/ESCS). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first G. Surrender or Repatriation Requirement for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 585. 580 A f n a h g i t s n a A l a r e g i A a o g n l A n i t a u g d n a B r a a d u b A e g r n i t a n A r a b u A u t s a r i l a A u t s a r i T h e B a h a m a s B h a n a r i B d a g n a l s e h B r a o d a b s B u g e l i m d n a L e x u m u o b g r B e i l e z B e n n i B n a u h t B o i l a v i B o s t w a n a B z a r l i B a r a g u l i B u r a n k i F a s o B u r d n u i C a m n o o r e C a d a n a C p a e V r e d e - - - • • - - • • • • - - - - - - - • • - - • - - - - - - • • - - • * - • • -• - • - • • - • - - • - - • - • - - - - - - - - - -- A W A W D - • - - - - - • - - • - - - - - - • - - - • - -• 0 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - • - • - - - - - - - - - • - • • - - - •- • - - - - - - - • - • - - - - - • - • - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- • - - - • - - - - - • - - - - - • - • - - - - -- • - - - • - - - - - • - - - - - • - • - - - - -- - - • • - - - - - - - - - • - • - - • • - • -- • • - - • - - - - - • - - - • - - - • • - -• • - • - - - - - - - • - - - - - - - • • - - - -• • • • - • - - - - - • • - - - • - • • - • • -• - - - - • • - - - - - - - • - - - - - • • - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (Hi) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (Hi) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 country page)2 - - • - - - - • - • - • • - • - - • • - - • - - - • - - • • • - • • - • - « - - - - - • - • • - - - • • - * • * - • • - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - • • - - - - • - - - - - - - - • - - - • •- • • - - - • • - • - - - - - - - - - • - - - - • - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 581 C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R p e . C d a h C h l i e C n h i a , P e p o l e ' s R p e . o f C o o l m a b i C o m o r o s C o g n o C o s t a R i a c C e o t d l ' o v r i e C p y r u s C o h c e z s l a k a v o i D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i a c n i D o m i n a c n i R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S o d a v a l r E o a u q t i r a l G a e n u i E t a p o h i i F i j i d n a n F i l F r e c n a G n o b a T e h G a m b i a G e r m y n a G a n a h G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G a e n u i G a e n u i - B i u a s s G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o r s a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first G. Surrender or Repatriation Requirement for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 585. 582 H g n o K g n o H a g n u r y I d n a e c l I d n i a I s e n o d n i a r I - n a , s I l a m i c R p e . o f r I q a r I e l d n a r s I e a l I t I a l y a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K a y n e K i r i a b i t K o r a e K u w a t i L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . L n o n a b e L s e o h o t L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i I M a l y a s i a • - • - • - - • - • • - - • • - - - - - - -• - • - • - • • - • - - - • • - - - • •- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- D • - - • - - • - - - • D - • • - - • - - - - • - • - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- • - - • • - - - - - - - - - - • . - • - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- _ 0 _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ a _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ __ A ™ " ' "™ V , -- - • - • - • - - - - - - - - - - - • • , - - - • -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - • • - • • - • - • - • • - - - • - - - • •- - - - • • - • - • - • • - - - - • - • • -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (in) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (in) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 - - - - - • - - - - - • • • • - • • - - - - • • - - • • - • • - • - - • • - - • • - - • - - • - • • - - • • - - - •- • -• _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ a _ _ _ _ _0_ * _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ *0 0__ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- n - - • - • - • - • - • - - - - - - • - - - • - - - • - - • n • - - - •- _ A A ~" ' ' " '• ' "" "" •"• • ' • " 1 ~ "" """ ' '™ * " t A V A V A 9 A " W ' '" "" ' ' ~" """ '"" "" ~~ " """" """ """ — • - - - - - - - - • - - - • - - • - - - - - • • - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - • - • - • - - - - - - • - - - - - - • - • - - • - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - • - - - - - • - • - - - • - • • - • - - - - - - • - •- - • • - • - • • - • - - - - - - - - • - - - - - • - - • • - - - •- A W - i . A W A W A W A ~~ W A "' W ' ' "" " " '" '" " ' ~" ~ ' ' "™" - - • • - • • - - - • - • - - • - - • • - - • • - - - •- - - - - • - - - - • • - • - • - - - - • • - • • - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 583 M s e v d a l i M a i l M a t l a M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s - M o c x e i M o c c o o r " M a z o m e u q b i M n a y m a r - N a m i b i a N a p e l - N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a N o r w y a . m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a , P a u p a N e w G a e n u i P a r y a u g a P e r u P h i l i n p p i s e d n a o P l o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a w R a d n a S . t K t t i s d n a N v e i s S . t L c u i a S . t V i n e c n t d n a G r s e n d a n e i S o a T o m e d n a P i r e p c n i S d u a i A r b a i a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • ™ • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first For key and footnotes, see page 585. 584 S a g e n e l S e h c y e l l s e - S i e r r a L e n o e ^ o p a g n S i r e ^ o o S l m n o s I l d n a s " * o S m a i l a * h u o S t A i r f a c n a p S i S i r L a k n a n a d u S - u S i r a n m e - S w z a l i d n a - S w n e d e y S i r n a A r b a R p e . . T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a - T o g o - T a g n o T i r d a d n i d n a T o g a b o - T n u i s i a - T u r y e k - U a d n a g - U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e ' U n t i d e K i o d g n m - U n t i d e S t a t s e A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status - • - • • - • • - - • • - - • - • - - • - • 2. Article X IV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: ( i) t he U.S. dollar • - • - - • - - • • - - - • • - • - • • - • - -- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 0 _ _ ^ _ _ _ _ ^ _ _ _ _ __ (ii) t he pound sterling _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ (Hi) t he French franc (iv) other currencies4 0 __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 0 _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ __ D (v) a composite of currencies — • — — • — — — — — — — ^ — • • — — — — — • — — — (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: ( i) single currency _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 __ (ii) cooperative arrangement — — — — — — — 0 — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — 0 (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a s et of indicators _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ (ii) other managed floating — — — • — • — — 0 — — — — — — — — — — 00 (Hi) independently f l o a t i ng _ _ ^ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ __ — — — — — _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 9 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or a ll invisibles _ _ _ _ _ 0 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than o ne rate f or exports — — — — — • — — — % _ __ _ _ 0 — — — ^ — — — — — — — — _ _ _ — — — 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) _ _ _ _ _ ^ _ _ _ ^ _ _ _ 0 __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ C. Payments Arrears _ _ 0 _ _ 0 0 _ _ $ 0 _ _ 0 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ __ D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ ^ _ _ _ _ _ _ ^ 0 _ __ 2. With nonmembers _ _ _ _ _ ^ _ _ _ __ _ _ ^ _ _ _ _ _ _ ^ 0 _ __ E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for — — — — — • • — • • — — • •. — • .— • • - • • - ' —- F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits — — • — — • — — — ~ • — • • — — • • — 0^ — — • — • — — 0 — — • — • — — — — — _ _ _ _ $_ __ _ — G. Surrender or Repatriation capital transactions 5,6 Requirement for Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • — • — Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded) country page)2 8 S 1 # •8 g ^ "2 1 1 I 3 1 z £ 1 ! g | ii l l l l l c S l l ll • • • - - - - - -- Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 1991 Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange and trade system. — indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. n indicates that the composite is the SDR. aThe listing includes a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong) for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Ex- change practices indicated in individual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. 2Usually December 31, 1990. 3It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not neces- sarily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. Ex- change arrangements involving transactions at a unitary rate with one group of countries and at another unitary rate with a second group of countries are considered, from the viewpoint of the overall economy, to involve two separate rates for similar transactions. 4Australian dollar, deutsche mark, Indian rupee, or South African rand. 5Restrictions (i.e., official actions directly affecting the availability or cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on payments to member countries, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted August 14, 1952. 6Resident-owned funds. - - - - - - - - -- __ Aw - • - - • - - - - • _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _< 0_ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ __ • - • - - - - • -- - - - • • - - - -• - - - • • - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - • • - - - -- • * J L~ - - - • - - - • -- - - - • - - • - -- • • - - - • __ • - • A _ 585 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• ACP-EC ACU AMU ANZCERTA ASEAN BCEAO BEAC BTN CACM CAP CARICOM CCCN CEEAC CEPGL CET CMA CMEA COCOM EC ECCB ECCM ECLAC ECO ECOWAS ECSC ECU EEC EFTA EMCF EMS ERM EURATOM GATT GCC GSP IBEC IBRD ICO IDA IMF LAIA LIBOR MFA MFN MTN OECD OECS OGL PTA SACU SPARTECA LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention Asian Clearing Union Asian Monetary Unit Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement Association of South East Asian Nations Central Bank of West African States (Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest) Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) Brussels Tariff Nomenclature Central American Common Market Common Agricultural Policy (of the EC) Caribbean Common Market Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature Communaute economique des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Common External Tariff (of CARICOM) Common Monetary Area Council for Mutual Economic Assistance Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls European Community Eastern Caribbean Central Bank East Caribbean Common Market Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Economic Cooperation Organization Economic Community of West African States (CEDEAO) European Coal and Steel Community European Currency Unit European Economic Community European Free Trade Association European Monetary Cooperation Fund European Monetary System Exchange rate mechanism (of the EMS) European Atomic Energy Community General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf) Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Economic Cooperation International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) International Coffee Organization 5- International Development Association International Monetary Fund Latin American Integration Association (ALADI) London interbank offered rate Multifiber Arrangement Most favored nation Multilateral Trade Negotiations (the Uruguay Round) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Organization of Eastern Caribbean States Open general license Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States Southern African Customs Union South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement 586 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* TMA UAPTA UDEAC UN WAEC WAMU WAUA Trilateral Monetary Agreement Unit of account of the PTA Central African Customs and Economic Union United Nations West African Economic Community (CEAO) West African Monetary Union West African Unit of Account *This list does not include abbreviations of purely national institutions mentioned in the country pages. 587 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 