 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS AND ANNUAL REPORT 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1996 International Monetary Fund Editors: Gail Berre Martha Bonilla Design and composition: IMF Graphics Section Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13157 [date] 341.751 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-588-4 Price: US$76.00 (US$38.00 to full-time university facu l ty members and students) Please send orders to: International Monetary Fund, Publication Services 700 19th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20431, U.S.A. Tel.: (202) 623-7430 Telefax: (202) 623-7201 Internet: publications@imf.org recycled paper ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 9,1996 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1996, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director ill ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Preface Introduction Afghanistan, Islamic State of* Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo, Republic of Costa Rica CONTENTS Page ix 1 Page 3 5 9 12 14 17 20 22 26 28 31 35 37 43 47 52 54 56 60 61 63 66 69 76 78 81 85 88 90 94 97 99 103 107 112 117 122 124 128 Cote d'lvoire Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq* Ireland Israel Page 130 134 137 142 144 146 147 149 151 154 157 159 162 165 167 171 174 176 181 185 187 189 192 196 199 201 203 206 208 211 213 215 217 221 224 234 238 241 243 *The IMF has not received from the authorities of Afghanistan, Iraq, and Somalia the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31,1995. V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 171 CONTENTS Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Kuwait Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Lithuania Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Page 247 249 251 255 258 261 264 265 270 272 274 276 278 280 282 284 287 290 292 296 299 303 305 308 312 313 316 318 321 323 325 327 333 335 339 342 345 348 350 353 355 358 362 364 366 372 374 Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia* South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Page 377 380 382 388 393 395 397 400 404 406 408 410 412 414 416 418 422 424 427 429 432 434 436 440 443 448 452 456 458 460 462 467 470 473 476 480 482 484 490 495 497 499 502 504 506 511 *The IMF has not received from the authorities of Afghanistan, Iraq, and Somalia the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31,1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Western Samoa Yemen, Republic of Zaire Zambia CONTENTS 513 516 518 522 525 527 530 535 Zimbabwe Appendix. EU: Selected Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated on an EU-Wide Basis During 1995 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries Definition of Acronyms vii 537 542 546 553 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial enrities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis.- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published annually by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of offi- cial visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The project is coordinated in the Exchange Regime and Market Operations Division of the Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department. It draws on the spe- cialized contributions of staff of that Department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's seven Area Departments, together with staff of other Departments. tx ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The Report provides a detailed description of the exchange and trade systems of individual member countries, including the nonmetropolitan territory of Hong Kong, for which the United Kingdom has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 1995, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place in early 1996. A standardized approach has been followed, under which the description of each system is bro- ken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes dur- ing 1995 and in early 1996. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involv- ing exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade sys- tems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on imports and exports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as import licensing, advance import deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section Changes During 1995 (and 1996) includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on international transactions, such as major revisions of import tar- iffs or developments in regional cooperation, but are not necessarily reflected in the body of the coun- try descriptions. The description given in the section Exchange Arrangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have furnished to the IMF under Article IV, Section 2(a). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1995, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the cur- rency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries. When a country has concluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Resident /Nonresident Accounts, and, in some instances, External Accounts or Foreign Cur- rency Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, main- tained in its currency by account holders who are residents or not regarded as residents of that coun- try, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of resident/nonresident account, the nature and oper- ation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import-licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individ- ual license," which may be given either freely or restrictively according to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transac- tions in invisibles are described briefly, together with any limitations on the exportation of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisi- bles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export-licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surren- dered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, to the central bank, commercial banks, or exchange dealers authorized for this purpose. In some countries, there is a requirement 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 INTRODUCTION that such exchange or part thereof be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any regulations governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the importation of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. In the section on Capital the special arrange- ments or limitations attached to international capi- tal movements are described. When regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usually dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the prin- cipal regulations that govern the holding, negotia- tion, importation, and exportation of gold coins and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Albania is the Lek. The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the domestic market. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rate relationship between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The Bank of Albania calculates and announces the daily average exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other major currencies. No mar- gins are set between buying and selling rates for the official exchange rate. Government transactions are conducted at market rates. However, the commercial banks charge commissions ranging from 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent, depending on the amount, for cashing traveler's checks. The commercial banks are free to determine the margins on purchases and sales of for- eign banknotes, but they do not charge commis- sions. On December 31, 1995, the official (middle) rate for the U.S. dollar was lek 94.24 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The foreign exchange market is governed by regu- lations issued on May 1, 1994 by the Bank of Albania, under the authority of Decree No. 127 of March 25,1994 of the Council of Ministers. The Bank of Albania is vested with the powers to administer exchange controls. All commercial banks are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions and hold accounts abroad. The Bank of Albania may (1) authorize banks and other dealers to conduct foreign exchange operations; (2) define the limits of their activities; and (3) supervise foreign exchange operations to prevent any participant from dominating the mar- ket. It charges licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus and dealers with ensuring that their opera- tions comply with foreign exchange regulations. There is a reporting requirement by banks and exchange bureaus for transactions above $15,000, or its equivalent. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. All merchandise trade is conducted in convertible currencies. All transactions under bilateral pay- ments agreements were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of clearing accounts is pending the out- come of negotiations.1 Resident individuals are not permitted to open accounts with banks and financial institutions abroad without the prior written approval of the Bank of Albania. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident and nonresident natural and juridical persons are permitted to hold accounts in domestic and foreign currencies with commercial banks. Resi- dents and nonresidents may freely receive payments and make payments abroad for current transactions. Authorized banks must maintain 90 percent cover on the foreign deposits placed with them, of which 10 percent represents the reserve requirement. Com- mercial banks may conduct foreign exchange trans- actions and hold accounts abroad. There are no restrictions on withdrawals of foreign exchange from foreign exchange accounts by residents or non- residents. Interest rates paid on foreign currency accounts are determined by banks. Imports and Exports All state and private enterprises, individuals, and juridical persons are free to engage in foreign trade activities. The lists of products subject to import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Licenses are required to import hazardous materials and arms. Exports of unprocessed wood, metal scrap, and copper are prohibited. There are no export licensing requirements. There are no surrender requirements, but all private and public companies or individuals operating in the export sector are required to repatri- ate their foreign exchange receipts to Albania. They ]At the end of 1995, Albania maintained bilateral payments agreements in nonconvertible currencies with Bulgaria, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, and Vietnam. Albania also maintained bilateral payments agreements in con- vertible currencies with Algeria, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, the Slovak Republic, Turkey, Vietnam, and Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 ALBANIA are free to retain these proceeds in or outside the banking system or to convert them into leks. There are three customs duty rates ranging from 7 percent to 40 percent that are applied to both pri- vate and public sector imports. In addition, a sur- charge of 5 percent, based on the c.i.f. value, is levied on all imports except wheat, flour, and investment goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for current invisible transactions are free of restrictions. There is no restriction on transfers of dividends and profits. Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same repatriation requirements as those from merchandise exports. Capital With certain exceptions, capital transfers are sub- ject to the prior written approval of the Bank of Albania. The following capital transfers may be made freely: (1) inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents; (2) outward transfers representing recorded capital inflows; (3) transfers of proceeds or withdrawal of nonresident deposits; (4) transfers undertaken in accordance with the Law No. 7764 on foreign investment of November 1993, providing for the free repatriation of capital liquidation proceeds; and (5) transfers of the proceeds of the liquidation of Albanian assets by emigrants on departure from Albania. Foreign direct investment into Albania is free of registration or preapproval requirements for most sectors. All requests for establishing joint ven- tures with government entities involving over $50,000 in foreign capital must be approved by the Council of Ministers. Similar requests from financial institutions are approved by the Bank of Albania. Profits of joint ventures may be subject to tax rates of up to 50 percent, depending on the activity of the enterprise; profits are not subject to any tax during the first two years of operation for long-term (at least ten-year) investment projects. Enterprises are eligi- ble for reduced tax rates when they reinvest profits in Albania. Gold There are no restrictions on gold holdings. Pre- cious metal exports are prohibited by the Council of Ministers Decree No. 135 of March 29,1994. Changes During 1995 Imports and Exports January 9. The remaining four export licensing requirements were abolished and export bans were introduced on unprocessed wood, metal scrap, and copper. May 18. Parliament adopted a new customs tariff law, which came into effect on July 1. The law included a simplification of import tariffs from four to three rate categories, 7 percent, 25 percent, and 40 percent, in conjunction with the elimination of major import tariff exemptions (for investment machinery and equipment, medical equipment, and agricultural machinery). A surcharge of 5 percent, based on the c.i.f. value on all imports, except wheat, flour, and investment goods, was abolished. October 19. Customs tariffs for wheat, maize, and flour were temporarily suspended (until June 16, 1996); the tariff rate for these items was 7 percent. October 31. The customs tariff rate for electric heat- ers was raised to 100 percent from 25 percent, and kerosene heaters were zero rated. November 30. The tariff rate on meat was reduced to 25 percent from 40 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of January 32,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Dur- ing 1995, daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and other specified currencies1 were established by the Bank of Algeria in fixing sessions with the participation of commer- cial banks. Effective January 2, 1996, the Bank of Algeria (the central bank) established an interbank foreign exchange market. No margin limits are imposed on buying and selling exchange rates in the interbank foreign exchange market. However, a mar- gin of DA 0.017 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Algeria for the dinar against the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar by the Bank of Algeria were DA 32.1655 and DA 32.1825, respectively, per $1. Official exchange reserves are centralized in the Bank of Algeria. With the establishment of an inter- bank foreign exchange market, the authorized banks were allowed to keep open foreign currency positions. Residents may obtain from the commercial banks forward cover against exchange rate risk in the form of forward contracts to buy or sell foreign exchange. No forward cover is provided by the Bank of Algeria. Administration of Control The Bank of Algeria has general jurisdiction over exchange control. It formulates exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their applica- tion by the authorized banks. Authority for a num- ber of exchange control procedures has been delegated to five commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no pay- ment agreements are in force are made in convert- ible currencies.2 Payments under foreign supply Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tuni- sia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Mo- rocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Bank of Tunisia. contracts (contrats de fourniture) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the mer- chandise, except that transactions with Morocco can be effected in U.S. dollars through special clearing accounts maintained at the central banks of the respective countries. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which payments are made by the Alge- rian contracting party; such accounts must be closed within six months of the end of the contract; beyond this date, these accounts may not be used for pur- poses unrelated to the contracts. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in convertible dinars or internal nonresident accounts. There are four types of accounts, as follows: Individual suspense accounts may be opened with- out authorization and may be credited with pay- ments from any country. Balances in such accounts opened before January 1,1975, by nonresident natu- ral persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. Foreign accounts in foreign currency may be opened, under Regulation No. 91/02, by juridical and natu- ral persons of foreign nationality. These accounts may be denominated in the convertible currency of the holder's choice. Such accounts may be credited with (1) banknotes and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, and (2) other dinar-denominated funds that meet all the require- ments for transfer abroad. They may be debited without restriction to make transfers abroad, to export foreign banknotes, and to make dinar pay- ments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. Final departure accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any natural per- son residing in Algeria, not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to his or her country of origin. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) an amount equivalent to the holdings on October 20,1963, of the person concerned; (2) the proceeds from sales of real estate by the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; (3) the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and (4) any other pay- ments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be deb- 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 ALGERIA ited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individual approval. Foreign currency accounts may be opened by natu- ral and juridical Algerian nationals residing in Alge- ria or by nonresident Algerian nationals who have resided for more than six months in a foreign coun- try. Such accounts may be freely credited with ( l)book transfers of convertible currencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, (2) imported convertible foreign currencies that were declared at the time of the account holder's entry into the country, and (3) domestic bank-to- bank book transfers between accounts held by indi- viduals. The accounts may be freely debited for book transfers abroad but only through the banking sys- tem; they may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for pur- chases of convertible foreign currencies to be physi- cally exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the Bank of Algeria. Since 1990, eco- nomic entities have also been able to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, including the retained propor- tion of their export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these accounts to other foreign currency accounts or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make foreign payments for goods and services pertaining to their businesses. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. A small num- ber of imports are prohibited, regardless of origin, for religious, cultural, or safety reasons. All import licenses have been abolished. Any juridical or natural person licensed under the Com- mercial Register (including concessionaires and wholesalers) may import goods without prior authorization. All these imports are subject to oblig- atory domiciliation at an authorized intermediary bank, which an importer must establish by submit- ting a commercial contract or pro forma invoice. Import payments may be made freely but only through the domiciled bank, which effects payments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account with corresponding amounts in dinars val- ued at the official exchange rate. Before import pay- ments are effected, domiciled banks may require from the importer a deposit in dinars up to the full value of the imports. Importers maintaining foreign currency accounts at authorized intermediary banks may use them to pay for imports. Payments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and precious foreign currency stones must be made from accounts. External borrowing by importers for import financing purposes must be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. External borrowing may not exceed the import value. In April 1995, the requirement that commercial credits to finance imports of capital goods valued at more than $500,000 have at least a three-year maturity was eliminated. Except as otherwise indicated by the Bank of Algeria, down payments for import payments may not exceed 15 percent of the total value of imports. Imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. When a public agency, public enterprise, or ministry is effecting expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payments before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Payments for Invisibles The Bank of Algeria must approve all payments for invisibles to all countries. When supporting doc- uments are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments, such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime con- tracts, (2) business or official travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For pay- ments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the central bank or the Ministry of Econ- omy must authorize the granting of exchange. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under technical cooperation programs for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed com- panies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism abroad by Algerian residents were suspended in October 1986. Residents requiring medical treatment abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance of up to DA 100,000 a year upon presentation to the Bank of Algeria of documentation verifying the bona fide nature of the transaction. Emigrant Algerian work- ers who take their vacations in Algeria may, when returning abroad, re-export foreign exchange that was freely imported and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. In June 1995, the Bank of Algeria delegated to the Postal Administration authority to provide foreign exchange for educational expenses abroad by residents, up to DA 5,000 a month in each school year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 7 Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an allowance in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Travel tickets that are bought by nonres- idents for travel abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited. Certain exports are prohibited for social or cultural reasons regardless of destination. All proceeds from exports of crude and refined hydrocarbons, by-products from gas, and mineral products must be surren- dered. Exporters of other products may retain 50 percent of their export earnings in a foreign currency account. Since December 1995, proceeds from exports of nonhydrocarbons, and nonminerals may be surrendered to commercial banks and other authorized participants in the interbank foreign exchange market. Entities may use these funds for imports or other payments pertaining to their busi- ness or they may transfer the funds to another for- eign currency account. Exports other than hydrocarbons benefit from certain incentive mea- sures granted by the Government, including exemp- tion from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and the flat rate levy on the wage bill. Sales on consignment must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and must always be registered before customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 120 days of collection. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the basis of a contrac- tual price for each barrel, which is fixed by agree- ment with the companies concerned. The petroleum company that holds mineral rights, however, has different repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, and 50 percent of the proceeds must be surrendered. There are no restrictions on the importation of for- eign banknotes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such hold- ings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 200 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual license. Foreign direct investment is freely permitted, except in certain specified sectors, provided that it conforms to the laws and regulations governing reg- ulated activities and that prior declaration is made to the authorities. The Law of Money and Credit of April 14, 1990, and Legislative Decree No. 93-12 on Investment Promotion provide guarantees on for- eign direct investments in accordance with interna- tional codes that have been ratified by Algeria. Repatriation in respect of the sale or liquidation pro- ceeds from invested foreign capital is guaranteed. The law also stipulates that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted, provided that documentation requirements on tax payments are met. Tax facilities may be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. Legislative Decree No. 93-12 provides for various tax and other incentives for foreign investment for periods of up to five years. Algerian banks offer three-year interest-free bonds in dinars, which entitle the subscriber to exchange 20 percent of the placement value annu- ally into a convertible currency at the official exchange rate. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordi- nance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence nationale pour la distribution et la trans- formation de 1'or et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange con- trol regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR. Gold and other precious metals are included on the list of items importable by concessionaires. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement December 23. The Bank of Algeria established an interbank market and authorized commercial banks to maintain open foreign exchange positions and offer forward cover to residents. In addition, the sur- render of nonhydrocarbon and nonmineral export proceeds to commercial banks and other authorized participants in the interbank fpreign exchange mar- ket was allowed (earlier, foreign exchange surrender was exclusively to the Bank of Algeria). December 26. Regulations on spot and forward for- eign exchange positions of the participants in the interbank foreign exchange market were issued. Imports and Import Payments April 22. The minimum requirement of three years for the maturity of commercial credits to finance imports of capital goods was eliminated. ALGERIA Payments for Invisibles June 14. The Bank of Algeria delegated to the Postal Administration the authority to provide for- eign exchange for educational expenses abroad to Algerian residents up to DA 5,000 a month for each school year. In addition, the Bank of Algeria autho- rized the provision of foreign exchange for medical expenses overseas by Algerian residents up to DA 100,000 a year upon presentation of documenta- tion to the Bank of Algeria to verify the bona fide nature of the transaction. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 2. The Bank of Algeria established an interbank foreign exchange market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Angola is the Adjusted Kwanza. The official exchange rate against the U.S. dollar is fixed by the Government, and foreign exchange is sold to commercial banks based on allocations deter- mined by administrative priorities that are set at fix- ing sessions held from time to time.1 Exchange rates for 17 other currencies2 are established using the weekly average cross rates of the currencies con- cerned on the Brussels, Frankfurt, London, New York, Paris, and Zurich markets. The primary official rate is used for transactions between the National Bank of Angola (the central bank) and the commercial banks. The commercial banks are authorized to engage in transactions at market-determined exchange rates when buying and selling foreign exchange outside the fixing sessions. The National Bank applies a spread of 2 percent to its buying and selling exchange rates, and commercial banks apply a spread of 6.1 percent to their buying and selling rates. Foreign exchange dealers licensed by the National Bank to operate in foreign exchange are also authorized to operate at market-determined exchange rates. On December 31, 1995, the average official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was KZR 5,692 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Organic Law of the National Bank and the Financial Institutions Law, promulgated on April 20, 1991, established the National Bank and the com- mercial banks as the financial institutions that are legally authorized to conduct exchange transactions with foreign parties. The National Bank has dele- frequently the amount of foreign exchange sold to a par t icu lar commercial bank or du r ing a par t icu lar period of time covers only the transactions on the Na t ional Bank's priority list; as a re- sult, other transactions have to take place outside the fixing ses- sions at a more depreciated ra te. 2Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swed- ish kroner, and Swiss francs. gated authority to banks to license and execute per- mitted invisible foreign exchange transactions. All imports and exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. The National Bank has issued guidelines and delegated authority to com- mercial banks to license invisible and capital foreign exchange transactions carried out by their clients. With the exception of government transactions and those in the oil sector, all foreign exchange transac- tions must be carried out by the commercial banks and the foreign exchange dealers. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The National Bank prescribes the currency to be used for import and export transactions, which is that of the country of origin of imports and the coun- try of destination of exports, or the U.S. dollar. Bilat- eral settlement arrangements, which do not entail bilateral payment mechanisms, are maintained with Brazil, Portugal, and Spain. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents (natural persons or enterprises) may maintain foreign exchange accounts without prior authorization from the National Bank. Checkbooks may not be issued against personal accounts. These accounts may be credited with retained export earnings, foreign cur- rency transferred from abroad, cash, traveler's checks, foreign payment orders, and interest accrued; they may be debited with sales against domestic currency or the issue of any instrument normally accepted on the international financial market in settlement of imports of goods and invisi- bles or capital payments. Transfers between these accounts are prohibited. The opening of foreign exchange accounts by nonresidents is subject to authorization by the National Bank. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad or with the proceeds from the account holder's activities in Angola; they may be debited with the sale of foreign exchange or the repatriation of all or part of the existing deposit. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing based on a pos- itive list. The issue of import licenses for transactions 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 ANGOLA to be carried out with foreign exchange purchased from the banking system is subject to the availability of foreign exchange; the corresponding positive list assigns priority to particular transactions, which are periodically announced by the National Bank. Import licenses are also required for statistical pur- poses even if foreign exchange is not purchased from the banking system. These licenses are issued upon application. Licenses are granted only to registered enterprises of proven technical, commercial, and financial capacity, and are issued only for imports of goods for which the enterprise is registered. To obtain a license, enterprises must present bids from three for- eign suppliers to the sectoral ministries and the Min- istry of Commerce. The approved offer may be considered for an import license application, which, in turn, must be approved by the Ministry of Com- merce. Import licenses specify the importer, sup- plier, intermediary, product (Brussels Nomenclature Classification, volume, and unit price), shipping and insurance companies, cost, and method and cur- rency of payment. Import licenses are valid for 180 days after issue and may be extended once for an additional 180 days. A license fee of 0.1 percent of the import value is levied. Payments for Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to licensing. Preferential treatment is given to domestic air and sea transportation companies, and imports not insured domestically are approved only in exceptional cases. Remittances of dividends and profits from foreign investments are permitted under the Foreign Investment Law. Foreign inves- tors are guaranteed the right to remit dividends, provided the investment in the resident company exceeds $250,000, and, in these cases, an authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance is required only as a formality. Individuals are permitted to buy foreign exchange up to certain limits to pay expenses associated with travel, education allowances, and medical treatment. Resident nationals who wish to travel abroad may, upon presentation of their passport and airline tick- ets, purchase foreign exchange from financial insti- tutions as follows: (1) children up to the age of 16 years, up to $500 a person a trip to neighboring countries and up to $1,000 a trip to other countries; and (2) individuals over 16 years, up to $1,500 a per- son a trip to neighboring countries and up to $3,000 a trip to other countries. Companies may purchase foreign exchange from financial institutions to cover their employees' travel expenses abroad for trips of up to 30 days, for business, service, or training, with the following daily limits: (1) president or equiva- lent, $350; (2) vice president or equivalent, $300; and (3) department director or equivalent, $200. If a per- son returns to Angola earlier than planned, the remaining foreign exchange must be resold to a financial institution. For medical treatment abroad, up to $5,000 is provided through the National Health Board on a case-by-case basis at the official rate. Education travel expenses are normally expected to be covered by scholarships, but an addi- tional foreign exchange amount may be granted. A maximum monthly allowance of $2,500 is granted to residents who spend up to 90 days abroad for educa- tional, scientific, or cultural purposes. Up to the equivalent of $1,500 a month may be granted to Angolans or foreigners residing abroad who are direct ascendants or descendants of, and financially dependent on, residents in Angola, provided that (1) they are minor descendants under 18 years or, if of legal age, demonstrate that they are students or are incapable of working; or (2) they are ascendants over 60 years or, if younger, demonstrate they are incapable of working. The exportation of domestic currency is prohib- ited. When leaving Angola, nonresidents visiting the country for purposes of tourism or business are per- mitted, upon presentation of the corresponding sales vouchers, to repurchase up to 50 percent of the for- eign exchange they sold to institutions accredited to deal in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of exports of foreign oil com- panies, all exports of goods are subject to licensing. Exports of certain goods are prohibited.3 Re-exports of goods other than capital goods and personal belongings are also prohibited. Exports of products that are in short domestic supply are restricted. With the exception of foreign oil companies, all export proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank or the commercial bank through which the exports were transacted. The National Bank may authorize exporters of goods and services to retain a certain proportion of foreign exchange earnings to be deposited in accounts to be held at local banks. Pro- ceeds from exports must be collected and surren- dered within 30 days of shipment. 3Arms and ammunition, ethnological collections, ships, ostrich products, cattle, and ivory products. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, historical objects, miner- als and mineral products, toxic substances, cotton, rice, pork, cof- fee, cereals, wood and wood products, tobacco, and petroleum. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 11 Proceeds from Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents must be approved by the National Bank. The sectoral minis- tries supervise the execution of contracts. All pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank within 30 days of receipt unless authorized by the National Bank to retain a portion of the proceeds. There are no limits on the amount of foreign bank- notes or traveler's checks in foreign exchange that a person may bring into the country, but any amount exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared upon arrival. Residents are permitted to leave the country with more than $5,000 in foreign exchange only if they present exchange purchase documents; nonresidents must present such docu- ments when the amount exceeds $10,000. The importation of domestic currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers are subject to licensing by the National Bank, which has delegated certain author- ity to the commercial banks. The Foreign Investment Law of 1994 (Law No. 15/94 of September 23,1994) prohibits investment in strategic sectors.4 Direct investments in the oil sector are encouraged. Resi- dent foreign companies must obtain prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance to borrow abroad. Dividends and capital may be repatriated upon liq- uidation with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Transfers of personal capital, such as inher- itances, dowries, savings from wages and salaries, and proceeds from sales of personal property, are permitted only on a case-by-case basis. Gold The importation and exportation of gold are a monopoly of the National Bank. Residents are per- mitted to hold gold only in the form of jewelry. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 4Defense, law and order, education, health, utilities, communi- cations, and transportation infras truc ture. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the East- ern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East- ern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70per US$1. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transac- tions with commercial banks were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange risks operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Antigua and Barbuda accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on November 22,1983. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all currencies and is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are required for a range of products, particu- larly those subject to export duties. Import licenses are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Minis- try of Finance and by the Ministry of Trade, Indus- try, and Commerce, depending on the type of commodity. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settle- ments with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Carib- bean dollars. 'The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Exports to Jamaica are set- tled in U.S. dollars. 12 Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained in any currency. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, such accounts may also be opened by resident individuals or firms, especially in tourism-oriented industries or export trade, whose receipts are primarily in foreign cur- rency and whose inputs are mainly imported or financed in foreign currency. External accounts can be credited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the Minis- try of Finance on a monthly basis. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Certain other commodi- ties require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda fol- lows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permit- ted upon application and submission of documen- tary evidence. Imports exempt from import duties include basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemp- tions for machinery, equipment, and raw materials are granted on a case-by-case basis, generally under the Fiscal Incentives Act of 1975 and the Hotel Incen- tives Act. On January 1, 1995, Antigua and Barbuda imple- mented the first stage of CARICOM's common external tariff; tariff rates were lowered to a range of zero to 35 percent for nearly all items, entailing a decrease in the average tariff rate. Tariff rates on a number of items, including milk and poultry meat, were reduced to zero. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Upon presentation of sup- porting documents, and with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, residents may purchase for- eign exchange, including CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), for each trip outside the area served by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 13 the Central Bank. Foreign exchange allowances for education, family maintenance, medical treatment, and remittances of earnings by foreign workers are approved on a case-by-case basis. Profits on foreign direct investment may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Inland Revenue Department that the enterprise is registered for corporate income tax purposes. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. Surrender of export pro- ceeds is not required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles for transfers, especially for charitable purposes, are usually granted. Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital movements. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased out over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on the importation of gold. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. For- eign currency coins are not normally exchanged. Checks and drafts in U.S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; for amounts over US$1,000, approval from the Min- istry of Finance must be obtained. Levy exemptions January 1. Antigua and Barbuda implemented the first stage of CARICOM'S common external tariff in 1995; tariff rates were lowered to a range of zero to 35 percent for nearly all items, entailing a decrease in the average tariff rate. January 1. Tariffs rates on a number of items, including milk and poultry meat, were reduced to zero. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of December 32,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Peso, the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1995, the middle rate of the peso in terms of the U.S. dollar was Arg$l per US$1. Exchange rates of other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. Swap transactions and forward exchange operations are permitted in any currency, and the rates may be freely negotiated. Deposits denominated in pesos and maintained by the finan- cial institutions at the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina to meet cash reserve requirements are automatically converted into U.S. dollars. As of November 1, 1995, reserve requirements have been replaced by minimum cash requirements, which may include earning assets (activos retribuibles). Argentina accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 14,1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions are carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose, with no restrictions on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange at market prices. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and financial companies; each type of institution is subject to separate regulations. Credit funds and mortgage savings and loan compa- nies may also effect certain foreign exchange trans- actions, on the condition that they meet certain additional capital requirements. Prescription of Currency Within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA), payments between Argentina and Bra- zil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are settled voluntar- ily through payments agreements and a reciprocal credit mechanism. All payments between Argentina and Bolivia and the Dominican Republic must be effected through the accounts specified in the agree- ments. Argentina has also signed similar agreements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Malaysia, and Rus- sia, whereby payments between Argentina and these countries are settled on a voluntary basis through the accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, with the exception of Bolivia and Cuba, where settlement through the accounts specified in the agreements is obligatory. Transactions with other countries must be settled in freely convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos or foreign exchange in the name of residents or nonres- idents who have met certain identification require- ments that are aimed at, among other things, preventing money laundering. Accounts in foreign exchange must be denominated in convertible cur- rencies and may be credited only with cash or with remittances from abroad in the following currencies: U.S. dollars for current accounts, savings, and fixed- term deposits; and deutsche mark and other curren- cies that the Central Bank explicitly authorizes at the request of financial institutions for deposits in sav- ings and fixed-term accounts. Both resident and nonresident holders of demand or time foreign cur- rency accounts may use their credit balances freely in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be made freely. Use of checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars is allowed for domestic transactions.1 Imports and Import Payments Import payments may be effected in convertible currencies, and they may be freely settled by autho- rized financial entities. The Treaty of Asuncion, signed in 1991, became effective in January 1995. It established the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) between Argen- tina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay and imple- mented a 47 percent reduction in tariffs on goods traded among MERCOSUR countries, retroactive to June 30,1991. Thereafter, tariffs were reduced at a rate 1 Since January 12, 1995, the minimum cash requirements for deposits and other obligations in pesos must be covered in U.S. dollars. Financial institutions accepting savings and fixed-term deposits in foreign currencies must limit them to no more than six times the liabilities included in the computation of capital, and the resulting lending capacity must be applied mainly to financ- ing productive activities and external trade. Any funds not used for these purposes may be placed in alternative investments ex- pressly allowed by law and by the Central Bank (government se- curities, sight placements in the New York branch of the Banco de la Nacion Argentina, etc.). 14 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 15 of 7 percent every six months until they were com- pleted at the end of 1994; the tariff positions exempted from these reductions were also eliminated during this period. At the end of 1994, a substantial portion of intra-MERCOSUR trade was conducted at a zero tariff rate and the nontariff barriers listed in the Schedule of the 1991 Asuncion Treaty were also removed. Since January 1,1995, Argentina and the MERCOSUR countries have been applying a common external tariff (GET) to imports from the rest of the world that encompasses all products, with certain exceptions (Argentina has 300 exceptions) that are subject to a transitional regime until the years 2001 and 2006. CET rates currently range from zero to 20 percent. At the end of the transitional period in 2001, the CET will be 14 percent for capital goods; in 2006, the max- imum CET will be 16 percent for computer and tele- communications equipment. Argentina applies a special regime to automobile and sugar imports with the authorization of MERCO- SUR, pending agreement on a common regime for these sectors. Quantitative restrictions are applied to the automobile sector and to some paper, and iron and steel products. Other restrictions are in force solely for security, hygiene, and public health reasons. A statistical tax of 3 percent is applied to imports from all countries, except those from MERCOSUR This tax is waived for capital goods, fuel, and sensitive goods from the paper, computer, and telecommuni- cations sectors. Payments for Invisibles Neither payments for invisibles nor the exportation of domestic and foreign banknotes are restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds are not required to be repatriated. Until the end of 1994, export rebates equal to the import duties applied to the products concerned (Decree No. 1239/92). On January 1, 1995, export rebate rates were changed when MERCOSUR became effective (Decree No. 2275/94). Subsequently, the applicable rates were reduced by 25 percent (Resolu- tion ME&OSP No. 310/95 of March 20,1995). Other export promotion measures involving rebates are the regime for exporting turnkey plants, under which exports of industrial plants and engi- neering operations sold under turnkey contracts benefit from the highest effective rebate rate (15 per- cent outside the zone and 10 percent within the zone); and the regime for Puerto Patagonicos, under which exports through the ports and customs posts located on the Colorado River received an additional rebate ranging from 7 percent to 12 percent until the end of 1994. Since January 1, 1995, these rates are being reduced by 1 percent a year. The drawback regime allows exporters to recover import duties, the statistical tax, and the value- added tax (VAT) that are levied on inputs used in the processing of products for export. To be eligible for drawback, the exporter must be a direct importer of inputs. Since March 10, 1995, the drawback regime has been adapted to the new MERCOSUR terms, distin- guishing between the treatment of exports to mem- ber countries of MERCOSUR and those to nonmember countries (Resolution ME&OSP No. 288/95). The temporary admission regime permits the importation, free of consumer and statistical taxes, of merchandise for industrial processing, provided that such goods are exported in their new form within 180 days, which may be extended for a fur- ther 180 days. To be eligible for the temporary admission regime, the exporter must be the direct user of the merchandise subject to temporary impor- tation. Temporary admission is an alternative to the drawback system, and both cannot be used simultaneously. Quantitative restrictions on exports are main- tained only on arms, protected animal species, and products subject to international agreements. The financing system for promoted exports has been suspended by Communication "A" 1807 of March 8,1991, except with respect to those products that were in the process of exportation at that time. Under Communication "A" 1994 of August 31,1992, this system was transferred to the Banco de Inversion y Comercio Exterior (Investment and For- eign Trade Bank). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisible transactions of the private sector need not be repatriated. The importation of domestic and foreign banknotes is not subject to exchange control. Capital Beneficiaries of loans in foreign currencies are not required to convert them into domestic currency in the exchange market. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Law No. 24.156 of October 29, 1992. Decree Law No. 1853 of September 1993 governs foreign investment, combining in one law the liber- alization measures contained in the Economic Emer- gency and State Reform Acts of 1989 and the Foreign Investment Law of 1993. This law allows foreign companies to invest in Argentina, without prior gov- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ARGENTINA eminent approval, on an equal footing with domes- tic firms, thus effectively applying national treatment to foreign investors. Foreign investors are entitled to the same rights and subject to the same obligations as domestic investors and may enter into any area of economic activity on their own, because no law or regulation forces them to be associated with local partners. There are no approvals or procedures required to effect foreign investment; irrespective of the amount or areas of economic activities concerned, this prin- ciple applies even in cases where a foreign invest- ment results in full foreign ownership of a domestic company. In the banking and insurance sectors, where spe- cial statutes require all operators to apply for licenses, foreign and domestic investors are guaran- teed access to such licenses on an equal footing. The principle of nondiscrimination applied to banking laws is extended to eliminate the traditional reci- procity requirement when considering a foreign bank application to do business in Argentina, which effectively gives foreign banks full legal equality with their domestic counterparts. Foreign investors are entitled to repatriate their capital and transfer abroad their realized earnings at any time without any approval or authorization. Foreign investors may repatriate the full amount of their invested capital at any time, irrespective of the duration of investment. Their access to the foreign exchange market is also unrestricted. These rights to assist foreign investors have been further estab- lished under international law by means of over 30 investment promotion and protection agreements, including all countries where foreign investment usually originates, such as Canada, France, Ger- many, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Argentina is a member of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the International Center for the Settle- ment of Investment Disputes and maintains a valid and active agreement with the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institu- tions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good delivery bars among themselves and may buy such gold from their clients as well as other precious metals whose market value is based on the daily list prices of major transactions. The importation of gold coins and good delivery bars is not restricted. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are also subject to a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage operations with their clients in gold coins or good delivery gold against foreign banknotes. Authorized institutions may export gold to entities abroad. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The Treaty of Asuncion (1991), establish- ing the Southern Core Common Market (MERCOSUR) became effective. Tariffs on imports from the mem- ber countries of MERCOSUR were eliminated (except for a number of products), and a common external tariff (CET) ranging from zero to 20 percent (with 11 different positions) would be applied to most prod- ucts from non-MERCOSUR countries. March 1. The statistical tax of 3 percent was reim- posed on all imports, with the exception of capital goods, fuel, and goods produced in the paper, com- puter, and telecommunications sectors. All goods imported from the member countries of MERCOSUR were also exempted. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. When MERCOSUR became effective, export rebates were changed. March 20. Export rebates were reduced by 25 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA (Position as of April 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Armenia is the Dram; the exchange rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar is determined on the basis of foreign exchange auc- tions held five times a week in the Yerevan Stock Exchange and twice a week in the Gjumry Stock Exchange. Banks and financial dealers holding licenses from the Central Bank of Armenia may par- ticipate in the auctions. Anyone may buy and sell at the auction through banks. Foreign exchange trans- actions may also be made through the interbank market. On April 30, 1996, the average auction rate for the U.S. dollar was dram 405 per $1, and the average exchange rate at the exchange offices was dram 407 per $1. The Central Bank quotes official rates in terms of U.S. dollars daily on the basis of the weighted aver- age rate at foreign exchange auctions on the previ- ous trading day (Central Bank Decree No. 189, issued on December 1, 1995). This rate is used for accounting valuation of all foreign exchange trans- actions of all economic agents. Exchange rates for other major currencies are calculated either on the basis of quotations on the Yerevan Stock Exchange, when applicable, or solely on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar in major international interbank markets against the currencies concerned. Enterprises or any other physical or juridical per- sons (including state enterprises) are free to buy and sell foreign exchange without restriction through authorized banks and licensed cash bureaus. Forward transactions, futures, and options in for- eign exchange transactions are permitted. Administration of Control Central Bank Decision No. 33 of May 17,1994, sets out the principles and procedures for foreign exchange and currency transactions between resi- dents and nonresidents. The Central Bank has over- all responsibility for regulating financial relations between Armenia and other countries in close col- laboration with the Ministry of Finance. The Minis- try of Finance has the authority over trade transactions, including customs tariff policies. Banks are granted two types of foreign exchange licenses. A general license gives a bank authority to conduct any type of foreign exchange transaction, including those with nonresidents abroad and including gold transactions that require an addi- tional license. Banks with a full license may offer a full range of currency transactions, including gold. A second, more restricted form of license allows banks operating in Armenia to buy and sell foreign exchange only on behalf of their clients. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other states are made through correspondent accounts maintained by the commer- cial banks, which may be opened freely without notifying the Central Bank. The settlements can also be effected through the correspondent accounts of the Central Bank. Settlements with countries with which Armenia maintains bilateral payments agree- ments are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.1 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Under Central Bank Resolution No. 179 of Octo- ber 20,1995, and Resolution No. 8 of January 1,1996, resident and natural and juridical persons may open, maintain, and use accounts in banks abroad with prior notification to the Central Bank. They may also open, maintain, and use foreign currency accounts at licensed banks in Armenia. There are no limits on the amount of foreign currency banknotes that can be purchased with drams from banks or cash bureaus, and banknotes can be deposited in a foreign exchange account or used for transactions with nonresidents. Resident enterprises may main- tain and use foreign exchange accounts in banks abroad with the authorization of the Central Bank. The opening and use of domestic foreign exchange accounts are not restricted, except that residents may not transfer these balances to other residents in order to make payments for goods and services, because this would contravene the dram's status as sole legal tender in Armenia. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may freely open and use foreign exchange accounts with licensed domestic banks. According to Central Bank Resolution No. 124 of July 28,1995, such persons are also free to make withdrawals to effect current trans- actions. Balances in these accounts may be trans- it the end of 1995, Armenia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Russia and Turkmenistan and bilateral clearing agreements with the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, but all have become largely inoperative. 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 ARMENIA ferred abroad or sold to the licensed domestic banks for drams. Central Bank Resolution No. 177 of Octo- ber 20,1995, permits nonresident juridical persons to open accounts in drams and use them for domestic transactions. Foreign governments and international institutions may freely open dram accounts with banks in Armenia without prior authorization from the Central Bank. Imports and Exports Imports of a number of products are restricted for public health, national security, and environmental reasons. A license from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, granted on a case-by- case basis, is required to import medicinal prepara- tions and chemical agents for plant protection (pesti- cides). Imports of weapons, military equipment and parts, and explosives require special authorization from the Government. The Agreement on the Cre- ation of a Free Trade Zone, signed in April 1994, establishes the legal framework for the signing of free trade agreements between Armenia and other countries of the former Commonwealth of Indepen- dent States (CIS). To date, bilateral free trade agree- ments have been signed with the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine. Currently, only the one with Russia has been ratified. Products imported from countries of the former CIS are exempt from customs tariffs. The customs tar iffs range from zero to 10 percent. There are no tariffs on exports. In accordance with Government Decision No. 17 of January 17, 1995, export licenses are required for three product groups: medicines, wild animals and plants, and textile products exported to the Euro- pean Union. In addition, special government per- mission is required for the export of nuclear technology, nuclear waste and related non-nuclear products, and technology with direct military appli- cations. Minimum threshold prices for the export of ferrous and nonferrous metals and the re-export of foreign-produced goods made thereof remain in force. In accordance with Government Decree No. 615 of December 10,1994, all restrictions on bar- ter trade have been removed. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 30 days of receipt, and, as of April 1, 1995, are not subject to the surrender requirement. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to exports may be deducted from export proceeds prior to repatriation. Payment for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident persons and enterprises may freely pur- chase foreign exchange or use foreign exchange bal- ances in their foreign exchange accounts with domestic banks to conduct invisible transactions. There are no limits on foreign exchange allowances for travel. Proceeds from cultural activities performed abroad are exempt from the repatriation require- ments. Proceeds from other invisibles are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to proceeds from merchandise exports. The importation of foreign currency banknotes is not restricted. The exportation of foreign currency banknotes is also not restricted, but a declaration must be made for amounts exceeding the equivalent of $500. Capital Foreign investors, including joint ventures, are not required to obtain authorization from the Ministry of Finance. A foreign investment law passed on July 31,1994, reflecting current international practices, is liberal in its treatment of foreign direct investment. Other inward and outward capital transfers require approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold A license is required to conduct trade in gold. There are no specific regulations governing domes- tic trade in gold. Regulations on purchases, sales, and holdings of gold and precious metals by banks have been prepared by the Central Bank, and they are expected to come into force in 1996. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement July 28. Interbank foreign exchange transactions were permitted. December 1. The official exchange rate was deter- mined on a daily basis instead of three times weekly (Decision No. 189). Resident and Nonresident Accounts July 28. Nonresidents were allowed to open accounts at Armenian banks without restrictions (Decision No. 214). Imports and Exports January 1. The rate of surrender requirement for export receipts was reduced to 30 percent from 50 percent. January 10. The number of categories for which export licenses are required was reduced to three product groups from nine product groups. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA 19 January 27. The number of tariff rates was reduced to five, with zero rates for most imports (Govern- ment Decree No. 39). April 1. The surrender requirement for export receipts was eliminated. Changes During 1996 Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 1. Resolution No. 8 regulating foreign exchange accounts held by residents abroad and in Armenia was issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA1 (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Resident Foreign Bank Accounts The currency of Aruba is the Aruban Florin, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Af. 1.7900 per US$1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba, the Central Bank, deals with local commercial banks within margins of 0.002795 percent on either side of parity. On December 31,1995, the official buying and sell- ing rates were Af. 0.98 and Af. 1.002, respectively, per NA f. 1.00. Official buying and selling rates for other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of U.S. dollar rates on the international exchange mar- ket. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3 percent is levied on all payments made by residents to non- residents, except when settled in Netherlands Antil- lean guilders. Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for for- eign exchange control purposes are exempted from the commission. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. No arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk are operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Department of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency. For purposes of the compilation of the balance of payments, all payments made by residents to nonresidents, as well as receipts through local banks and banks abroad must be reported to the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in any foreign currency and are also permitted to hold accounts in Aruban florins up to Af. 200,000. !On Janua ry 1,1986, the Island of Aruba, which was formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetro- politan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2 Canad ian dollars, deutsche mark, European currency units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Netherlands Antillean guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Residents are obligated to report in writing to the Central Bank the opening of accounts with nonresi- dents, including foreign bank accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports, other than eggs, are not subject to any quantitative restrictions. The restriction on the importation of eggs, however, is administered liber- ally, depending on the domestic supply situation. Payments for imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles The majority of payments for invisibles exceed- ing Af. 50,000 a quarter require a license from the Central Bank. Allowances for education remittances for family maintenance and allowances for medical treatment are granted liberally. Residents may buy foreign exchange for travel purposes, up to a maxi- mum amount equivalent to Af. 400 for each day of travel, Af. 8,000 a trip, or Af. 15,000 each calendar year, without a special permit, and up to a maxi- mum amount equivalent to Af. 2,500 without pre- senting travel documents. Transfers of profits and dividends require a license from the Central Bank. The exportation of Aruban banknotes is prohibited, and that of foreign currencies requires a license. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require a license. Unless specifi- cally exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days and credited to a foreign currency account with a local bank or with a foreign bank with the approval of the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The regulations governing export proceeds also apply to proceeds from invisibles. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or banknotes denominated in foreign currency. Capital The following transactions require a license from the Central Bank: (1) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of domestic and officially listed securi- 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 21 ties (a resident natural person must obtain a license if values exceed Af. 200,000 per year); (2) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of domestic and for- eign real estate, or resident natural persons must obtain a license if the amount of the transaction exceeds Af. 200,000 per year; (3) proceeds from the liquidation of direct foreign investments; (4) loans received from, and extended to, nonresidents; and (5) other short- and long-term investments by resi- dents abroad, or by nonresidents in Aruba or by res- ident natural persons if the amount of the transaction exceeds Af. 200,000 a year. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of December 31, 2995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dol- lar.1 The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the for- eign exchange market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market. There is no official exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The Reserve Bank of Australia publishes an indicative rate for the Australian dollar based on market observation at 4 p.m. daily. On December 31, 1995, the indica- tive rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was $A 1.3423 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves, with their customers, and with overseas counterparties at mutually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency, in respect of trade- and non-trade-related transactions. The Reserve Bank sets a limit for each dealer's net open overnight foreign exchange exposure. Australia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 1,1965. Administration of Control The only restrictions on external payments and transfers are those introduced to give effect to UN Security Council Resolutions imposing sanctions against Iraq and Libya. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency,2 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by persons in Australia must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may establish and operate accounts without formality and may repatriate funds without ]The Australian dollar also circulates in several other coun- tries, including Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. restriction. Accounts may be denominated in for- eign currency, but purchases and sales of foreign currency in Australia must be handled through authorized dealers. Special requirements apply to interest-bearing investments by foreign government monetary authorities (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than the tariff quota, which applies to certain cheeses and curd. Australia is not a signatory of the Multifiber Arrangement. For some products, imports are allowed only if written autho- rization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances, firearms and certain weapons, particular chemicals, certain primary commodities, some glazed ceramic ware, and vari- ous dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obli- gations arising from Australia's membership in international commodity agreements. Australia is implementing a tariff reduction pro- gram under which most tariffs are to be reduced to a maximum level of 5 percent by July 1996. Tariffs are to be reduced on passenger automobiles from 35 percent to 15 percent, and in the textile, footwear, and clothing sectors, to a maximum of 25 percent by the year 2000. Tariff quotas in the textile, clothing, and footwear sectors were eliminated in March 1993. Most specific duty rates were converted to ad valorem rates in July 1993. Australia's antidumping and countervailing leg- islation, primarily the revised Custom Tariff (Anti- dumping) Act of 1988, was amended in accordance with World Trade Organization rules and reflected in Uruguay Round changes to the GATT texts on antidumping and countervailing measures and came into effect on January 1, 1995. The amend- ments included (1) a requirement for a set level of support by Australian industry before an investiga- tion can be initiated; (2) the inclusion of prescribed methodologies to establish dumping margins; and (3) a requirement that investigations will be termi- nated promptly where it is established that the mar- gins of dumping (or level of subsidization) are de 22 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 23 minimis or there are negligible volumes of dumped (or subsidized) imports. A provision to allow for a combination of company-specific and residual rates of duty applying to exporters from subject countries was also introduced. The legislation also provided detailed guidelines on what constitutes a counter- vailable subsidy, giving preferential treatment to developing countries in the consideration of coun- tervailing duties. Specific criteria are listed for mak- ing a determination regarding the existence of threat of material injury. The legislation now requires greater levels of evidence from interested parties and notification by authorities. The Anti- dumping Authority and Australian customs share responsibility for implementing the Government's antidumping policies. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA), trade in goods across the Tasman became free from July 1, 1990 (five years ahead of schedule). The provision for antidumping actions against imports of New Zealand origin ceased af ter July 1,1990, and domestic trade practices legisla- tion was amended at the same time to provide redress for unfa ir competition from New Zealand. However, provision for countervailing action to be taken on goods from New Zealand still exists. The South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) provides for duty-free and unrestricted access to Australian and New Zealand markets on a nonreciprocal basis for most of the products exported by the member coun- tries. In the case of Papua New Guinea, although it obtains trade concessions from New Zealand under SPARTECA, its trade and commercial relations with Australia are covered by the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea.3 Developing countries obtain tariff preferences on their exports to Australia under the Australian Sys- tem of Tariff Preference for Developing Countries. Since 1986, a uniform preferential margin of 5 percentage points on dutiable goods has applied to all developing countries; if the general tariff rate is below 5 percent, imports from developing coun- tries enter du ty free. From July 1,1993, the develop- ing countries preferences have been phased out for Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, and Taiwan Province of China, and margins applicable to cer- ^he areas covered by this agreement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Aus t ra l ia and New Zealand) —Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, N au ru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuva lu, Vanua tu, and Western Samoa. tain industries, including textiles, clothing and foot- wear, chemicals, vegetable and fruit preparations, tuna, and sugar have been removed for all but the least-developed countries and the South Pacific Island Territories. The preferential rates for these specified industries will be frozen until the General Tariff rate falls to the preference rate; the General Tariff rate will then apply. Both the 1991 and 1993 decisions came into effect on July 1,1993. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are unrestricted, except for certain transactions involving Iraq and Libya. There is no restriction on the amount of Australian or foreign currency that can be taken out of Australia, so long as the foreign currency was pur- chased from an authorized dealer. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may also take out any foreign currency that they brought into Australia. Persons leaving Australia with cash (banknotes and coins) in any currency totaling $ A 5,000 or more must complete a report for the Australian Transac- tion Reports and Analysis Center (AUSTRAC); the report forms are available at ports or airports from the Australian customs authorities. The ANZCERTA also provides, through a protocol, for a progressive liberalization of the trade in ser- vices between Australia and New Zealand, subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. In addition, certain service activities are excluded from the agreement. Among Australia's exclusions are the areas of telecommunications, airport ser- vices and aviation, coastal shipping, limits on for- eign ownership of broadcasting and television, and postal services. Exports and Export Proceeds The export regime is designed to encourage the relatively unrestricted exportation of Australian products. Bounties are paid to producers of a limited number of products, some of which may be exported. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control over specified goods; administer trade embargoes and meet obligations under international arrangements; restrict the exportation of certain defense goods; reg- ulate the exportation of goods that involve high technology and have dual civilian and military applications;4 and maintain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, 4Australia became a participant in the Coordinating Commit- tee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM), effective May 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 AUSTRALIA and flora and fauna. There are no formalities regu- lating the disposal of export proceeds. The Government also exercises export controls to secure national conservation objectives and to respond to specific market distortions abroad that have an impact on the export prices of certain prod- ucts. Remaining controls on primary products apply mainly to food and agricultural products. The Government monitors trade in the bauxite, alumina, coal, and iron ore sectors and retains authority to withhold export approval for ship- ments at prices not in line with market conditions. Export controls apply to uranium to ensure compli- ance with the Government's nonproliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also apply to the exporta- tion of certain other nuclear and related materials. Licenses are required for the exportation of unprocessed wood, including wood chips. Licensing requirements are intended to ensure compliance with the Government's policy regarding environ- mental protection, elimination of market distortions, and promotion of further processing in Australia. The Australian Dairy Corporation administers export control powers in relation to prescribed dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy prod- ucts must be licensed. This system allows the con- trol of exports to markets where quantitative restrictions apply and ensures that export prices do not fall below minimum prices agreed to under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) for these products. Exports of red meat and livestock can be made only by persons or firms licensed by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation (AMLC). The AMLC has the power to engage in export trading in its own right and may introduce arrangements to control Australian exports to that market to observe quantitative restrictions in any particular market. Other Commonwealth statutory marketing authorities that have export control pow- ers are the Australian Horticultural Corporation, the Australian Honey Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and the Australian Wine and Brandy Corpo- ration. The Australian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Australian wheat. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings from invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in Australian or for- eign currency, subject to completion of an AUSTRAC report for cash amounts (notes and coins) totaling $A 5,000 or more. (See section on Payments for Invisibles, above.) Capital The vast majority of transactions involving trans- fers of interest-bearing capital from Australia and nonresident investments in Australia may be undertaken without formality. The only exceptions are a ban on the issue of bearer bonds and foreign governments, their agencies, and international organizations. When borrowing in the Australian capital market, these entities must advise the Trea- sury or Reserve Bank of the details of each borrow- ing after its completion for information purposes only. Although there are no limits on the interest- bearing investments of international organizations or of foreign central banks and other monetary authorities, the Reserve Bank may determine an amount up to which the investment of foreign gov- ernment monetary institutions (which also under- take commercial investments) will be regarded as having been undertaken for official foreign reserve management purposes. All investing agencies are expected to be stable holders of Australian dollar assets and to keep the Reserve Bank informed of their Australian dollar portfolios. Interest-bearing investments of a foreign government's official for- eign reserves are exempt from taxation consistent with the principle of sovereign immunity. Income derived by a foreign government from the conduct of commercial operations is not exempt from Aus- tralian taxation. Under Australia's foreign investment policy, pro- posals by foreign investors for the acquisition or investment of more than $A 50 million are subject to full examination. These include (1) acquisitions of substantial interests in existing Australian busi- nesses; and (2) proposals for the establishment of new businesses. Proposals for investments in the following areas are subject to examination irrespec- tive of size: (1) investment in the media; (2) direct investment by foreign governments or their agen- cies; and (3) acquisition of residential real estate (unless exempt under the regulations). Foreign investors may acquire residential real estate within a designated integrated tourist resort (ITR) without obtaining approval under the foreign investment guidelines. In most industry sectors, the Government nor- mally approves proposals to establish new busi- nesses involving total investments of $A 10 million or more and those to acquire existing businesses with total assets valued at $A 5 million or more ($A 3 million or more if more, than half of the assets of the business are attributable to rural land) unless judged to be contrary to the national interest. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 25 Certain restrictions apply to proposed acquisi- tions of real estate, but approval is normally granted to (1) acquisitions of real estate for develop- ment; (2) purchases of vacant residential land (on condition that continuous development occurs within 12 months) and home units and townhouses that are "off the plan" or under construction (on condition that no more than half of the units in any one development are sold to foreign interests); and (3) acquisitions of developed nonresidential com- mercial real estate valued at over $A 5 million (acquisitions of developed nonresidential commer- cial real estate valued at less than $A 5 million do not require approval). In applying the policy, the authorities make every effort to avoid unnecessary interference in normal commercial processes and recognize the special char- acteristics and circumstances that may arise in indi- vidual cases. The policy is nondiscriminatory as to the country of origin of investors, and the Foreign Investment Review Board, which acts as an indepen- dent advisor to the Government on foreign invest- ment matters, stands ready to assist and advise foreign investors in formulating their proposals. Since February 1992, foreign banks have had the option of being authorized under the Banking Act to operate as wholesale banks in the form of a branch (previously, foreign banks could be autho- rized only as incorporated subsidiaries). All foreign corporations seeking authorization to conduct banking business in Australia must satisfy the Reserve Bank of their willingness and capacity to adhere to high standards of prudential manage- ment. Foreign bank branches are not required to maintain endowed capital in Australia and, conse- quently, the Reserve Bank does not impose any cap- ital-based large exposure limits on these branches. Gold Australia has no restrictions applying to owning, buying, selling, importing, or exporting gold and gold coins. If the exportation or importation of coins (together with any notes) totals $A 5,000 or more, it must be reported to AUSTRAC. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Austria participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Austria maintains the spot exchange rates between the schilling and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of 15 percent above and below the cross rates, based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs)2 and continues to keep the schilling's external value con- stant against the deutsche mark. The arrangements imply that the Oester- reichische Nationalbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other par- ticipating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 Deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Portuguese escudos 100 Spanish pesetas Austrian Schilling Upper limit Lower limit 39.6089 214.1740 816.9270 243.5860 19.6971 725.0650 7.9700 9.60338 29.3757 158.8410 605.8770 180.6540 14.6082 537.7400 5.9108 7.1220 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert with the other EMS members to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Austria became a member of the European Union on Janua ry 1, 1995, and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9, 1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened to ±15 percent from ±2.25 percent around the bilateral central ex- change rates; the f luc tua t ion band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ± 2.25 percent. Forward transactions are permitted. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces, and the Oesterreichische National- bank does not intervene in the forward market or provide cover for the forward positions of commer- cial banks. On December 28, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 10.038 and S 10.183, respectively, per $1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on August 1,1962. Administration of Control Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the central bank. Cer- tain restrictions on payments and transfers for cur- rent international transactions to the Government of Iraq are still in force. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Austria notified the Fund on July 7,1992, that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro).3 Restrictions are imposed on certain cur- rent payments and transfers to Libya in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 (1993). Export and import licenses required under the For- eign Trade Act of 1995 and its amendments must be issued by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs for industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural products.4 Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free schilling accounts. 3These sanctions were suspended on December 22,1995, in ac- cordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022 (1995). As Austria is a member of the European Union (EU), the Regula- tion No. 241 /94 of the EU Council regarding the fu r ther discon- tinuation of the economic and financial relations between the EU and the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, under the control of Bosnian Serb forces, has been in force since January 1,1995. 4Licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant EU-trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas es- tablished in accordance with such agreements and the need of the Austrian economy. 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 27 Nonresident Accounts There is only one category of nonresident account in schillings, namely, free schilling accounts. These accounts may be freely opened by Austrian banks on behalf of nonresidents and are not subject to restrictions. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident accounts in foreign currencies. These are subject to the same conditions as free schilling accounts. Imports and Import Payments As a member of the European Union, Austria applies the Common Import Regimes. Payments for imports are not restricted. Payments for Invisibles Residents are permitted to conclude transactions with nonresidents involving payments for invisi- bles without restriction. Residents traveling abroad for purposes of tour- ism may purchase foreign exchange from autho- rized banks or obtain short-term advances from nonresidents without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law must be obtained from the relevant min- istry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due con- sideration for the provisions of relevant EU trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas estab- lished in accordance with such agreements, and the needs of the Austrian economy. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be deposited with- out restriction. Persons entering Austria may import Austrian or foreign banknotes and coins without limit. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian secu- rities and shares and participation by nonresidents in Austrian companies are unrestricted. The acqui- sition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Nonresidents are permitted to issue bonds on the domestic market. Foreign banks are permitted to establish branches in Austria. In the auditing and legal profession, the transport sector, and the electric power generation sector, there are certain restrictions for investments by nonresidents and Austrian residents who are not nationals of one of the countries of the European Economic Area. Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Nonresidents direct invest- ments in Austria and the purchases of Austrian or foreign equities do not require approval. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresidents, as well as to foreign banks and financial institutions. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises; earnings accrued from such investment may be freely used. Residents are permitted to acquire real estate abroad and to purchase from nonresidents securities denominated in Austrian and foreign currencies without restriction. Resi- dents are also permitted to open bank accounts and issue bonds abroad. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form and may trade with residents and nonresidents both at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unre- stricted and free of license. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement January 9. Austria joined the exchange rate mech- anism of the EMS. Administration of Control January 1. Austria became a member of the Euro- pean Union. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Austria became a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO). (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of the Republic of Azerbaijan is the Manat. The external value of the manat for noncash operations is determined in auctions held three times a week at the Baku Interbank Currency Exchange (BICEX). Participation in the auctions is restricted to the commercial banks that are licensed to deal in foreign exchange bidding on behalf of their customers.1 Since April 17,1995, the Azerbaijan National Bank has been quoting an official exchange rate against the U.S. dollar every Wednesday, which is equal to the Wednesday auction rate. The official rate is used for all official foreign exchange transac- tions and valuation of foreign assets. Authorized banks are free to set buying and sell- ing rates for cash transactions. These rates are pub- lished weekly by the International Bank. On December 31,1995, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was manat 4,440 per $1, and the Decem- ber monthly average buying and selling rates for cash transactions were manat 4,502, and manat 4,556, respectively, per $1. No commission is assessed on purchases of foreign exchange by the International Bank, but a commission of 2-3 percent is added for sales of foreign exchange. All residents of the Azerbaijan Republic (legal entities and enterprises and organizations that do not enjoy a right of legal entity) must sell 30 percent of their foreign exchange earnings through the BICEX auctions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk provided by the official or the commercial banking sectors. The sum of the long and short positions of authorized commercial banks in convertible curren- cies must not exceed 15 percent of their capital; the ratio for the currencies of the Baltic countries, Rus- sia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union is 5 percent. 'The convertible currencies commercial banks are authorized to deal in are Aus t ra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and U.S. dollars. An official exchange rate aga inst the ECU is also posted. 28 Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the National Bank Law, which gives the National Bank responsibility for regulating the exchange rate of the manat, conducting foreign currency opera- tions, and administering gold and convertible currency reserve holdings. The National Bank also has overall responsibility for issuing licenses to deal in foreign exchange; for regulating foreign exchange operations, including implementing and monitoring compliance with the law; and for establishing prudential rules governing foreign exchange operations. Foreign trade is regulated under the Foreign Economic Activity Law by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. The Customs Service Law regu- lates the organization and operation of customs. Enterprises engaged in foreign trade must register with the Ministry of Justice. Foreign private investment in joint ventures must be registered with the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and the Ministry of Finance. Investment abroad by both Azerbaijani nationals and companies is regulated by a state decree that limits the opening of foreign exchange accounts in foreign countries. A license must be obtained from the National Bank as well as permission from the Cabinet of Ministers to open such accounts. Prescription of Currency Residents may, once a transaction is approved, make and receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency. Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are effected through correspon- dent accounts of the commercial banks in these states or through correspondent accounts of the respective central banks. Azerbaijan maintains a bilateral payments arrangement with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident persons or enterprises may open and use foreign exchange bank accounts at banks abroad subject to authorization by the National Bank. Resi- dents may freely open and use foreign currency accounts maintained at licensed banks in Azer- baijan. No declaration of the origin of foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 29 exchange is required for individuals. Individuals may transfer foreign exchange held in these accounts freely up to $5,000 and, upon authoriza- tion, larger amounts may be transferred to the holder's bank account abroad or may be freely con- verted into domestic currency. Enterprises are obliged to repatriate the foreign exchange held in accounts abroad (except the amount used for paying for imports) and to sell 30 percent of foreign exchange earnings through the BICEX. Nonresident persons and enterprises are free to open foreign exchange accounts with licensed domestic banks. Foreign exchange in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for manat. Nonresident enterprises may also open and operate accounts in manat and use them for domes- tic transactions in accordance with instructions issued by the National Bank. Foreign governments and international institutions may open and operate manat accounts with specific authorization from the National Bank. Imports and Exports Payments for imports from the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union may be made in any mutually agreed cur- rency, including banknotes, or through the system of correspondent accounts operated by the National Bank and the commercial banks. Payments for imports from the rest of the world are made in accor- dance with normal commercial practices. There are no restrictions on the use of foreign exchange for import payments from enterprises' own accounts. There are no licensing requirements for imports except for reasons of health, environmental protec- tion, or security. Bilateral trade agreements exist with Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and the Islamic Repub- lic of Iran; however, these agreements are fulfilled by procurement through market mechanisms. Duties are levied on imports in accordance with Resolution No. 252 of June 27,1994, of the Cabinet of Ministers. Duty rates vary by product but not by origin. A customs fee of 0.15 percent is levied on imports from all sources. Resident persons and enterprises are required to repatriate proceeds from exports within three months and transfer them to a licensed bank in Azerbaijan within ten days of receipt unless specifi- cally exempted by the Government. Expenses, com- missions, and taxes paid abroad relating to economic activities may be deducted from the pro- ceeds prior to transfer to a licensed bank, which in turn should be instructed by the exporter to sell 30 percent of export proceeds at the BICEX auction. As of November 1, 1995, there are no licensing requirements for exports, including those of strate- gic goods. However, export contracts for strategic goods remain subject to review by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations with respect to the con- tract price and payment terms in order to prevent underinvoicing. Some export bans exist, mainly on defense equipment. Export duties were imposed in March 1995 on strategic goods whose domestic prices remained sig- nificantly below world market levels, notably oil products and cotton; as a result, 70 percent of the dif- ference between the domestic and the export price was taxed away. This tax was removed for petro- leum products in November 1995, when domestic prices were raised to world market levels. A customs fee of 0.15 percent is levied on exports to all destinations. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the availability of for- eign exchange for invisibles payments by resident individuals, but documentation is required. The exportation of foreign banknotes is regulated by the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, in conformity with customs regulations. Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within three months and transferred to a licensed bank within ten days of receipt. The importation of foreign banknotes is regulated by the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance in conformity with cus- toms regulations. Capital Inward private capital transfers are not restricted, and borrowing abroad by the Government is subject to an annual ceiling determined by Parliament. For- eign exchange transactions of private investors are protected by the Protection of Foreign Investment Law adopted on January 15, 1992. Under this law, the treatment of foreign investment cannot be less favorable than that extended to domestic invest- ment, and foreign investment may receive preferen- tial treatment. Foreign investment is protected from nationaliza- tion and expropriation unless state interests or force majeure is involved. If nationalization or expropria- tion occurs, adequate compensation is paid. Profits may be reinvested in local currency, held in Azer- baijan, or converted into foreign currency and trans- ferred without restriction. Foreign investors are granted certain privileges: enterprises or joint ven- tures with foreign equity capital ownership of more than 30 percent are entitled to a two-year holiday on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 AZERBAIJAN profit taxes; imports and exports of goods and services may be undertaken without licenses; and exporters of manufactured goods are allowed to retain 100 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Gold A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement April 17. The National Bank began to quote an offi- cial exchange rate against the U.S. dollar every Wednesday, which is equal to the Wednesday auc- tion rate. The official rate is to be used for all official foreign exchange transactions, and valuation of for- eign assets. Imports and Exports March 13. Regulations governing surrender requirements were replaced with a full repatriation requirement. All residents of Azerbaijan (legal enti- ties and enterprises, and organizations that do not enjoy a right of legal entity) were required to sell 30 percent of their foreign exchange earnings through BICEX auctions. November 1. Export quotas and licensing require- ments were abolished. Export contracts for strategic goods remain subject to review by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations with respect to the con- tract price and payment terms in order to prevent underinvoicing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at B$l per US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$1.0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, with the buying rate based on the rate in the New York market; the selling rate is 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of The Bahamas deals only with com- mercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a com- mission of 0.50 percent buying and 0.75 percent sell- ing per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling pe r£ l. A stamp tax of 1.5 percent is applied to all outward remittances. There is also a market in which investment cur- rency1 may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium above the official market rate. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents of The Bahamas when the resident is due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a con- tractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of future requirements without the Central Bank's permission. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign currency forward with nonresidents without prior approval from the Central Bank. Com- mercial banks may deal forward among themselves at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their open spot or forward position does not exceed the equivalent of B$500,000 long or short. There are no forward cover arrangements in the official sector. The Bahamas accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on December 5,1973. Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers2 the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments, including payments for imports up to B$l00,000; approval authority for cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands.3 Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Depart- ment of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the police department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency4 or in Bahamian dollars through an external account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open external accounts denominated in Bahamian dollars for win- ter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, autho- rized banks may also open external accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonres- ident investors. External accounts in Bahamian dol- lars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be cred- ited to these accounts with the approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.5 The accounts of residents emigrating from The Bahamas and who are redesignated upon departure 'Foreign currency that the Central Bank permits to be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist for foreign currency accruing to residents of The Baha- mas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities; the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property; or di- rect investments outside The Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securi- ties from nonresidents and the mak ing of direct investments out- side The Bahamas. In 1995, total purchases amounted to B$203,898, and total sales to B$268,533. 2N ine commercial banks are appointed authorized dealers. 3In June 1988, the Central Bank established a branch of its Ex- change Control Department in Grand Bahama to serve the for- eign exchange needs of residents in that area. 4Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Ba- ham ian dollar. 5Foreign nationals who have been granted temporary resident s ta tus are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permited to hold external accounts in Bahamian dollars 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 THE BAHAMAS as nonresidents are blocked for amounts in excess of B$25,000 for a period of four years. Balances on blocked accounts are transferable through the offi- cial exchange market after that time or through the Investment Currency Market at any time; they may also be invested with the approval of the Central Bank in certain resident-held assets or they may be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohib- ited or controlled for social, humanitarian, or health reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. Prior approval from the Central Bank is required to make payments for imports exceeding B$l00,000, irrespective of origin;6 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 200 percent, depending on the type of goods; the tariff rate on most goods is 42 percent, and the average tariff rate is 35 percent. Stamp duties on imports vary from 2 percent to 27 percent. For all imports of agricultural products, a permit must be obtained from the Ministry of Agri- culture. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 7 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Authorized dealers may make payments to nonresi- dents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles, such as commissions, royalties, edu- cation, freight, ships' disbursements, and insurance premiums within specified limits. On application to the Central Bank, residents are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel equivalent to B$l,000 a person above the age of 18 years and B$500 a person up to the age of 18 years a trip; B$10,000 a person a year for business or professional travel; B$3,000 for educational travel; and B$l,000 for travel for medical reasons. The allowance for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Applica- tions for foreign exchange in excess of the official amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves bona fide applications. Foreign exchange obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of return to The Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance is granted without a limit. Tem- porary residents may, with the approval of the Cen- tral Bank, remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but if commitments outside The Bahamas are more than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of their accumu- lated savings resulting from their employment in The Bahamas. A traveler may export Bahamian banknotes not exceeding B$70 in value; Bahamian travelers may not export the banknotes of any other country, except with specific approval from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for craw- fish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The pro- ceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an autho- rized dealer without delay. There are no restrictions on the importation of foreign banknotes. The impor- tation of domestic banknotes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside The Baha- mas require exchange control approval, and out- flows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents, which are encour- aged, are required to go through the manual exchange control approval process, although the subsequent use of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required for any action whereby nonresi- dents acquire control of or participate in an incorpo- rated company controlled by residents. Resident individuals and companies require the specific per- mission of the Central Bank to maintain foreign cur- rency bank accounts locally or abroad.7 6Except in the Family Islands, where this au thor i ty is delegated to clearing bank branches. 7Banks and trusts established in The Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 33 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the investment (whichever is greater) for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above crite- ria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms subject to individual approval from the Central Bank, by foreign currency pur- chased in the investment currency market, or by the retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a non- resident. Foreigners intending to purchase land for commercial purposes or property larger than five acres must obtain a permit from the Investments Board, under the provisions of the International Per- sons Landholding Act of 1993. If such an application is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an external source or in foreign currency. Nonresidents wishing to pur- chase property for residential purposes may do so without prior approval but are required to obtain a certificate of registration from the Foreign Invest- ment Board on completion of the transaction. For all investments with approved status, permis- sion is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends representing earned trading profits and investment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Cen- tral Bank to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, may be made only with investment currency, and approval is lim- ited to one property a family. Incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for per- sonal use may normally be met with investment cur- rency. Expenditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its owner- ship may, with permission, be met with foreign cur- rency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances to non- resident beneficiaries under the wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. Residents may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$l,000 a donor a year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in spe- cial circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in The Bahamas, who have been designated residents for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemp- tion from certain exchange control obligations, nota- bly with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian dollar- denominated securities must fund the acquisition of such securities from foreign currency sources. Inter- est, dividends, and capital payments on such securi- ties may not be remitted outside The Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities with official exchange, export proceeds, or other current earn- ings; payment must be made with investment cur- rency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents require permission from the Central Bank and are normally transacted through authorized agents.8 These insti- tutions are free to act on behalf of nonresidents in relation to such transactions without any fur ther approval from the Central Bank. All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by or to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency secu- rities. Sale proceeds from such resident-held foreign currency securities, if registered at the Central Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market. Unregistered securities may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents emigrating from The Bahamas and who are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of resi- dence and may also take their household and per- sonal effects with them; assets exceeding B$25,000 are deposited in blocked accounts (see Nonresident Accounts, above). Once a person is redesignated a 8Thirteen banks and trust companies are authorized to deal in Baham ian and foreign currency securities and to receive securi- ties as deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 THE BAHAMAS nonresident, income accruing from assets remaining in The Bahamas is remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks must obtain permission to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direction of their foreign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain per- mission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Baha- mian dollars. When permission is granted for resi- dents to accept foreign currency loans, it is conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresi- dents for which permission has been specifically given. A resident company wholly owned by nonresi- dents is not allowed to raise fixed capital in Baha- mian dollars although approval may be granted to obtain working capital in local currency. If the com- pany is partly owned by residents, the amount of local currency borrowing for fixed capital purposes is determined in relation to the resident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas must have permission to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is controlled by any means, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. However, companies set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured out- side The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Baha- mian dollars from residents for either fixed or working capital. Instead, they must provide all their financing in foreign currency, and foreign currency loans are normally permitted on application. Gold Residents of The Bahamas, other than authorized dealers, are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins, and no import duty is imposed on these items. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license and are duty free, but they are subject to a 10 percent stamp tax. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.46190 per SDR 1. The exchange rate for the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set within margins of ±7.25 percent of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has maintained a stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency; the exchange rate has remained unchanged at BD 1 per $2.6596 since December 1980. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency. The Bahrain Monetary Agency does not deal with the public. It provides daily recommended rates to banks dealing with the public for amounts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deut- sche mark, based on the latest available U.S. dollar rates against those currencies. On December 31, 1995, the Bahrain Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respectively, per $1. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the Bahrain Monetary Agency's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mil (special rates of commission apply for trans- actions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Bahrain Monetary Agency's U.S. dollar rates and the New York market rates against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. The Bahrain Mone- tary Agency monitors the forward exchange transac- tions of commercial banks through the open position of the banks' monthly returns. Bahrain accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on March 20,1973. Administration of Control The Bahrain Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms, ammunition, and alco- holic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be registered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls are prohibited. In prac- tice, rice is imported mainly by the Bahrain Import- Export Company. The rates of customs tariffs range between 5 percent and 10 percent on most commodities but the rate is 20 percent on vehicles, 50 percent on tobacco, and 125 percent on alcoholic beverages. Mandatory government procurements give prefer- ence to goods produced in Bahrain and member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), provided that the quality and prices of these goods are within specified mar- gins of the prices of imported substitutes (10 percent for goods produced in Bahrain and 5 percent for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). Foreign exchange for payments of permitted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, all products may be exported freely. No require- ments are attached to receipts from exports or re- exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 BAHRAIN or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or for- eign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign investments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely, except that, under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law, the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of profits. Licensed offshore banking units may freely engage in transactions with nonresidents, although transac- tions with residents are not normally permitted. The stock exchange began operations on January 2,1989, and trading on the floor of the exchange began on June 17,1989. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 percent customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Brokers doing business in gold and other commodities must obtain approval from the Bahrain Monetary Agency before they can register with the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture. Such busi- nesses are subject to a minimum deposit require- ment equivalent, in the case of gold, to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of January 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. Bangladesh Bank, the central bank, determines its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (the intervention currency) vis-a-vis authorized dealers with reference to a weighted basket consisting of the currencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31,1995, the (spot) middle rate of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tk 40.75 per $1, and the spot buying and selling rates for authorized dealers were Tk 40.65 and Tk 40.85, respectively, per $1. Bangladesh Bank deals with authorized dealers only in U.S. dollars and the currencies of the mem- ber countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU).1 Authorized banks are free to set their own buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates for other currencies based on cross rates in international markets. The interbank market has expanded substantially during 1995, with most transactions other than official foreign aid and official debt- service payments being transacted in this market. Bangladesh Bank places prudential limits on each authorized dealer's open exchange position, taking into account the dealer's past foreign exchange oper- ations approximated by the volume of letters of credit business and the quality of the dealer's management. Forward contracts are available from authorized banks, covering periods of up to six months for export proceeds and import payments and covering up to three months for remittances of surplus collec- tion of foreign shipping companies and airlines. For the currencies of ACU member countries, the autho- rized banks may, in turn, take forward cover from Bangladesh Bank against transactions entered into through forward contracts with their customers.2 Bangladesh Bank does not transact in the forward market, nor does it regulate transactions beyond the normal requirements of prudential supervision. Authorized banks are permitted to retain working balances with their foreign correspondents. Cur- rency swaps and forward exchange transactions are permitted when they are against underlying approved commercial transactions. 1 Members of the Asian Clearing Union are Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 2Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 1996, Bangladesh Bank ceased to deal in the currencies of ACU member countries. Bangladesh accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on April 11,1994. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The commercial banks and specialized financial institu- tions are issued licenses as authorized dealers (authorized banks) in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Registered importers can make their imports in terms of the IPO against letters of credit. Letters of credit authorization forms are issued by authorized dealers and do not require a separate import license. Certain trade transactions are con- ducted through state-owned agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). Settlements with Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited pur- suant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992). Prescription of Currency Settlements normally take place in convertible currencies, and in some cases, through nonresident taka accounts. Settlements with ACU member coun- tries are required to be effected through the ACU in terms of the Asian monetary unit (AMU).3 Ban- gladesh has commodity exchange agreements with Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, and Hungary. Settle- ments for trade under these agreements are effected through special nonconvertible U.S. dollar accounts, and Bangladesh is committed to settling promptly any outstanding liability on these accounts. Pay- ments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which importation is prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bangladesh to a nonresident bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely 3The AMU is equivalent in value to the SDR and is used for re- cording transactions through the ACU. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 BANGLADESH convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a non- resident taka account. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts of individuals, firms, or companies are regarded for exchange control pur- poses as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.4 Nonresi- dent foreign currency accounts may be opened by authorized dealers without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank for Bangladesh nationals and for- eign nationals who reside abroad and for foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to these accounts may be made in the account holder's absence by authorized dealers without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Certain other debits and credits may be made without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank but are subject to ex post reporting. Convertible taka accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, interna- tional nonprofit organizations (including charitable organizations functioning in Bangladesh and their respective personnel), foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploration in Bangladesh and their expatriate employees, UN organizations and other international organizations, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh (regardless of their status) are allowed to maintain convertible taka accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remittances in convert- ible foreign exchange and may be debited freely at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between convertible taka accounts are freely permitted. Foreign missions and embassies, their expatriate personnel, foreign airline and ship- ping companies, and international nonprofit organi- zations in Bangladesh may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned can be disbursed only in local currency. Foreign currency accounts of Bangladesh nationals working abroad. Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are per- mitted to open foreign currency accounts denomi- nated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be cred- ited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and 4The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible curren- cies (banknotes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided that amounts exceeding $5,000 have been declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other foreign currency accounts opened under the former Wage Earners' Scheme (WES); and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited without restriction, subject to reporting to Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Ban- gladesh nationals residing abroad; foreign nationals, companies, and firms registered or incorporated abroad; banks and other financial institutions, including institutional investors; officers and staff of Bangladesh missions and government institutions; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open interest-bearing nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. These accounts, whose terms range from one month to one year, may be credited in initial minimum amounts of $1,000 or £500 ($25,000 for foreigners), equivalent, with remittances in convertible currencies and trans- fers from existing foreign currency deposit accounts maintained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The balance, including interest earned, may be trans- ferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to any country or to any foreign currency deposit account maintained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka, must be reported monthly by banks to Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident Bangladesh who do not open or maintain a foreign currency deposit account while abroad may open a nonresident foreign currency deposit with foreign exchange brought in from abroad within six months of the date of their return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh. Resident foreign currency deposit (RFCD) accounts. Resident Bangladesh, at the time of their return from travel abroad, may bring in any amount of foreign currency with a declaration and up to $5,000 or the equivalent without a declaration and may maintain an RFCD account with the foreign exchange brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and ser- vices from Bangladesh or commissions arising from business deals in Bangladesh are not allowed to be credited to such accounts. Balances in these accounts are freely transferable abroad and may be used for travel in the usual manner. These accounts may be opened in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Exporters and local joint- venture firms executing projects financed by a for- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 39 eign donor or international agency may open for- eign currency accounts. Foreign currency accounts may also be opened in the names of diplomatic mis- sions in Bangladesh, their expatriates, and diplo- matic bonded warehouses (duty-free shops). Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or from foreign aid, loans, and barter arrangements. Imports are guided by a two-year IPO announced by the Government. The controlled list contains 110 items in about 1,400 categories at the four-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited either for public safety, religious, envi- ronmental, and social reasons, or because similar items are produced locally. Up to 26 items are restricted purely for trade purposes (7 of which are banned and 19 are restricted). Items not specified in the control list of the IPO are freely importable, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate. The maximum tariff rate is 50 percent. All importers (including all government depart- ments with the exception of the Ministry of Defense) are required to obtain letter of credit authorization forms (LCAFs) for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Controller, importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by authorized dealer banks without an import license. Single-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied-aid programs. LCAFs are oth- erwise valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and imports transported on flag vessels of Israel are prohibited. Goods must be shipped within 17 months of the date of issuance of LCAFs in the case of machinery and spare parts and 9 months in the case of all other items. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Rec- ognized export-oriented units operating under the bonded warehouse system may effect imports of up to four months' requirement of their raw and pack- ing materials by establishing letters of credit without reference to any export letters of credit. They may also effect such imports by opening back-to-back let- ters of credit (either on a sight basis under the Export Development Fund, or up to 180 days usance basis) against export letters of credit received by them. Public sector importers may import on a cash- against-documents basis, subject to authorization from Bangladesh Bank. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period established by the Board of Investment. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitle- ment to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and letter of credit authorization forms are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The enti- tlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely importable but does apply to items appearing on the controlled list. Separately, industrial consumers may be issued with LCAFs for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Authorized dealers may establish letters of credit on an f.o.b. basis without the approval of Ban- gladesh Bank, subject to the following conditions: (1) cost of goods, cost of freight, and insurance will be accommodated within the amount recorded in the LCAF issued in favor of the importer; (2) cost of freight will be paid locally out of the LCAF value in local currency; and (3) other directives of the IPO will be duly complied with. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval from Bangladesh Bank, which is normally given only for specialized or capital goods. In September 1995, Bangladesh Bank required nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) and domes- tic private banks to impose a minimum deposit requirement of 25 percent on opening letters of credit for "commercial" imports. In October 1995, the minimum requirement ratios were changed to 50 percent for consumer durable goods, 30 percent for other consumer goods, 15 percent for raw materi- als, and 10 percent for capital goods. These require- ments are, however, not applied to foreign banks, and importers are allowed, without any restrictions, to open letters of credit through these banks. Although there are no penalties for noncompliance, these requirements are generally adhered to by both NCBs and domestic private banks. The deposits are remunerated at market interest rates. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with autho- rized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Applications for foreign exchange for family mainte- nance and education abroad are accepted upon veri- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 BANGLADESH fication of their bona fide nature. For medical treatment, up to $10,000 can be obtained without prior approval; for larger amounts, the total amount required is granted, subject to the approval of Ban- gladesh Bank. The indicative allowance for personal travel by resident Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $3,000 a year; the allowance for air travel to these seven countries is $1,000 a person a year. Larger amounts are available upon verification by Bangladesh Bank of the bona fide nature of the request. Foreign currency for edu- cation is made available up to the cost of tuition and living expenses, as estimated by the educational institution concerned. Foreign exchange is available for the costs of dependents abroad, after production of a certificate from the Bangladesh embassy in the country concerned, up to a reasonable level assessed by the embassy in light of prevailing prices. For new exporters, the indicative limit for business travel is $6,000, while established exporters are permitted to utilize balances held under the export retention scheme (7.5 percent of exports of ready-made gar- ments and 40 percent of other export proceeds). Manufacturers producing for domestic market and importers are granted, respectively, business travel allowances equivalent to (1) 1 percent of turnover as declared in tax returns, and (2) 1 percent of the value of imports. In both cases, the allowance is subject to an annual ceiling of $5,000. Foreign nationals work- ing in Bangladesh may freely remit up to 50 percent of net salary in terms of service contracts approved by the Government; the entire amount of their leave salaries and savings can also be remitted freely. No prior permission is required for the remittance of royalties and technical fees of up to 6 percent of sales; training and consultancy fees of up to 1 per- cent of sales; and fees for undergraduate, postgradu- ate, and some professional courses. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they brought in and declared on entry or up to $5,000 or the equivalent brought in without declaration. They may also, without obtaining the approval of Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into convertible foreign currencies at the time of their departure. Res- ident travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allowance they are granted, and also up to $5,000 they brought in without declaration while returning from a previous visit abroad. A Bangladesh or a for- eign national may take out Tk 500 in domestic cur- rency; otherwise, the exportation of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. Authorized dealers are allowed to remit divi- dends to nonresident shareholders without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank on receipt of applica- tions from the companies concerned; applications must be supported by an audited balance sheet and profit-and-loss account, a board resolution declaring dividends out of profit derived from the normal business activities of the company, and an auditor's certificate that tax liabilities are covered. Authorized dealers may remit profits of foreign firms, banks, insurance companies, and other financial institu- tions operating in Bangladesh to their head office on receipt of applications supported by documentation. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by Bangladesh Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of about 20 product categories are banned or restricted. Some of these, such as arms, are restricted for nontraded reasons, while others are restricted to ensure the supply of the domestic market. Export licenses are required for all banned or restricted items. Quotas are imposed on garment exports as a result of the Multifiber Arrangement restrictions. Quotas are allocated by the Export Promotion Bureau on the basis of the previous year's performance. The Export Promotion Bureau monitors quota use to be able to reallocate unfilled quotas. Proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment unless otherwise allowed by Bangladesh Bank. Exporters are permitted to retain 7.5 percent of the proceeds of exports of ready-made garments and 40 percent of the pro- ceeds of other exports; they may use retained earn- ings for bona fide business purposes, such as business travel abroad, participation in trade fairs and seminars, and imports of raw materials, spare parts, and capital goods. They may also be used to set up offices abroad without prior permission from Bangladesh Bank. Joint ventures, other than in the garment industry, located in export processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 80 percent of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and place the remaining 20 percent in a bank account in domestic currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Exporters of services are permitted to retain 5 per- cent of the proceeds and use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes. Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in foreign currency accounts or in nonresident foreign cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 41 rency deposit accounts. Unless specifically exempted by Bangladesh Bank, all Bangladesh nationals who reside in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an autho- rized dealer within one month of the date of acquisi- tion. However, returning residents may keep, in a resident foreign currency account opened in their name, foreign exchange brought in at the time of return from abroad, provided that the amount does not represent proceeds of exports from Bangladesh or commissions earned from business activities in Bangladesh. Residents may retain on hand up to $5,000 brought in without declaration. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continu- ously for more than six months are required to sur- render within one month of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange representing their earnings in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or ser- vices rendered while in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange held abroad or in Bangladesh by foreign diplomats and by foreign nationals employed in embassies and missions of foreign countries in Ban- gladesh is, however, exempt from this requirement. The importation of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk500 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in up to $5,000 w i thout decla- ration and up to any amount w i thout limit, pro- vided the amount brought in is declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval, which is not normally granted for resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers other than portfolio investment and direct investment in the industrial sector also require approval. Movable and immov- able assets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh must be declared to Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladesh nation- als. However, Bangladesh residents may continue to maintain foreign currency accounts opened during their stay abroad. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh. The issu- ing and transfer of shares and securities in favor of nonresidents against foreign investment or inward remittance are allowed w i thout the prior permission of Bangladesh Bank. The transfer of Bangladesh shares and securities from one nonresident holder to another nonresident holder also does not require prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident persons and institutions, including nonresident Bangladesh, may buy Bangladesh shares and securi- ties through stock exchanges in Bangladesh against freely convertible foreign currency remitted from abroad through the banking channels. Proceeds from sales including capital gains and dividends earned on the shares or securities bought in this manner may be remitted abroad in freely convertible currency. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and corre- spondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Private sector industrial units in Bangladesh may borrow funds from abroad without the approval of the Board of Investment if the interest rate does not exceed 4 percent above the LIBOR, the repayment period is not less than seven years, and the down payment is not more than 10 percent; industrial units in the export promotion zones, including foreign-owned and joint ventures, may obtain short-term foreign loans without prior approval. Local currency loans to enterprises con- trolled by foreigners or residents do not require Bangladesh Bank's approval. Lending by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas or collat- eral outside Bangladesh requires approval from Bangladesh Bank. Authorized dealers may grant, without reference to Bangladesh Bank and accord- ing to banking practice, loans without a specific limit in domestic currency to foreign-owned manufactur- ing companies located in Bangladesh. Authorized dealers may also approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for exportation from Bangladesh to companies controlled by per- sons residing outside Bangladesh. Authorized deal- ers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. When their work in Bangladesh is finished, expa- triate workers may transfer their savings abroad, provided that their salaries and benefits were ini- tially certified by the Board of Investment. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and Protec- tion) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and private entrepre- neurs. The act provides for the protection and equi- table treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. With the exception of a few reserved sectors, private foreign investment is freely allowed. There is no ceiling on private investment. Tax hol- idays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on the location. There is no upper limit on the foreign equity portion of an industrial invest- ment, and there is no prior approval requirement for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 BANGLADESH investments, which should, however, be registered with the Investment Board. Nonresidents must also obtain the permission of Bangladesh Bank to con- tinue to operate or to establish an office or branch in Bangladesh for the purpose of trading or for com- mercial activities. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted freely after payment of taxes. Gold The importation and exportation of gold and sil- ver are prohibited without special permission. How- ever, adult female passengers are free to bring in or take out any amount of gold jewelry without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Exports of gold jewelry and imports of gold and silver for exports/ manufacturer of jewelry are also allowed under the Jewelry Export Scheme. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and sil- ver in all other forms except by licensed industrial- ists or dentists. Changes During 1995 Resident and Nonresident Accounts August I. Persons/firms eligible to maintain for- eign currency accounts with authorized dealers were permitted to maintain these accounts in deut- sche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments July 1. The maximum import tariff was reduced to 50 percent from 60 percent. Payments for Invisibles July 1. (I) The annual travel allowance for private travel was increased to $1,000 from $500 for visits to SAARC member countries and Myanmar (in case of overland visits, to $500 from $250); and to $3,000 from $2,500 for visits to other countries; (2) manufac- turers producing for domestic market and importers were granted, respectively, business travel allow- ance equivalent to (1) 1 percent of turnover as declared to tax authorities and (2) 1 percent of the value of imports settled. In both cases, the allowance is subject to an annual ceiling of $5,000. Exports and Export Proceeds June 30. Joint venture (type B) and wholly locally owned (type C) units (other than garment units) in EPZs were allowed to retain in foreign currency accounts up to 80 percent of export receipts, instead of 70 percent. October 1. The export earnings retention ratio was increased to 7.5 percent from 5 percent for exports of ready-made garments, and to 40 percent from 25 percent for other exports. Capital September 1. Bangladesh Bank required national- ized commercial banks (NCBs) and domestic private banks to impose a minimum deposit requirement of 25 percent on opening letters of credit for "commer- cial" imports. In October 1995, the minimum requirement ratios were changed to 50 percent for consumer durable goods, 30 percent for other con- sumer goods, 15 percent for raw materials, and 10 percent for capital goods. These requirements were not applied to foreign banks, and importers would be allowed, without any restrictions, to open letters of credit through these banks. Although there were no penalties for noncompliance, the require- ments were generally adhered to by both NCBs and domestic private banks. The deposits would be remunerated at market interest rates. October 1. Bangladesh Bank ceased to prescribe overall foreign currency holding limits for ADs but would continue to prescribe and monitor their open exchange position limits. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Bangladesh Bank ceased to deal in the currencies of ACU member countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. On December 31,1995, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0350, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted on the basis of their cross rate relationships to the U.S. dollar. The quoted rates include commission charges of 0.125 percent buying and 1.75 percent selling against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875 percent buying and 1.8125 percent selling against the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling. Under clearing arrangements with regional mone- tary authorities, the Central Bank of Barbados cur- rently sells currencies of only three Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries;1 these are the Guyana dollar, the Eastern Caribbean dollar, and the Belize dollar. The Trinidad and Tobago dollar and the Jamaica dollar float against the U.S. dollar, and the Central Bank fixes daily selling rates based on rates supplied by the monetary authorities of these countries. These rates are applicable only to govern- ment transactions. All selling rates fixed by the Cen- tral Bank in respect of CARICOM currencies include a commission of 0.125 percent. The Central Bank pur- chases Eastern Caribbean dollar notes only. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the commission that the com- mercial banks may charge their customers for CARI- COM currencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for private sector remittances abroad (except for remit- tances for payment of imports, travel allowances, education, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500, and certain other items) are subject to a levy col- lected in the approval process by the Central Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. The Central Bank periodically obtains forward cover in the international foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central Govern- ment's exchange risks associated with foreign ]The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. exchange loans that are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain forward cover in the international markets. The Central Bank and commercial banks enter into swap transactions in U.S. dollars, while commercial banks may freely switch between nonregional currencies. Barbados accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Novembers, 1993. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve nor- mal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. Security considerations do not influ- ence decisions on payments restrictions. The exchange control system stipulates that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Busi- ness Development. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an external account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries, other than Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, must be made either through external accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue U.S. dollar traveler's checks to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. With effect from September 21, 1991, and April 13, 1993, the Bank of Jamaica and the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago abolished exchange control in Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, respectively; as a result, settlements with residents of Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago are made in U.S. dollars. 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bar- bados dollar. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 BARBADOS Resident and Nonresident Accounts Authorized dealers may, in most instances, main- tain foreign currency accounts in the names of resi- dents of Barbados and of other countries. Such accounts are opened on the basis of anticipated fre- quency of receipts and payments in foreign cur- rency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to foreign currency accounts under conditions established at the time the account is opened. Other credits and debits require individ- ual approval. However, where authority has not been delegated to authorized dealers, the permis- sion of the Central Bank is required. Authorized dealers may open external accounts for nonresidents without consulting the Central Bank. These accounts, maintained in Barbados dol- lars, may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other exter- nal accounts, with bank interest (payable on external accounts or blocked accounts), and with payments by residents for which the Central Bank has given general or specific permission. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business pur- poses, and for any other payment covered by dele- gated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain pay- ments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports require individual licenses.3 How- ever, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restrictions or import sur- charges. Some items on the import-licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while others are subject to temporary restrictions (particularly BARBADOS 45 royalties and management fees not exceeding BDS$250,000 a transaction, other current payments including services, up to BDS$250,000 a transaction, and other insurance payments and premiums, excluding investment, pension, and surplus funds, as long as the amount is approved for payment by the Supervisor of Insurance. Applications for addi- tional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, pro- vided that no unauthorized transfer of capital appears to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Any person traveling to a destination outside Bar- bados may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$200. Nonresident visitors may freely export any foreign currency they previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any country, including rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food prod- ucts, sewing machines, portland cement, and petro- leum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that for- eign exchange proceeds are surrendered to autho- rized dealers within six months of the date of shipment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Travelers to Barbados may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resi- dents returning to Barbados are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct investments by residents and the purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and real estate abroad, require exchange control approval. Certifi- cates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depos- itory in Barbados, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an autho- rized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$30,000 a year for each nonresident beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents under delegated authority, normally up to BDS$1,000 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$30,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare the assets they hold in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation of proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that evidence documenting the validity of the remittance is sub- mitted, all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged, and the original investment was registered with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of secu- rities registered in Barbados require exchange con- trol approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is estab- lished that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources-. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local cur- rency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as follows: for the last five years, at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately pre- ceding the last five years, at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years, at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$30,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign cur- rencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresi- dents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 BARBADOS A 6 percent tax is levied on portfolio investments of pension funds with foreign companies that are not registered with the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$50, BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are pri- vate persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. The importation of gold by residents is permitted for industrial purposes and is subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Business Development; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control per- mission is required. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control March 1. Authorized dealers were allowed to release foreign exchange for (1) advertising, legal fees, commissions, subscriptions, and film process- ing not exceeding BDS$50,000 a nonresident benefi- ciary; (2) dividends, profits, and interest not exceeding BDS$100,000 a transaction; (3) personal loan repayments not exceeding BDS$20,000 a year; (4) advance payments for imports into Barbados up to BDS$100,000 c.i.f., against specified documentary evidence; (5) education not exceeding BDS$40,000 a person an academic year; and (6) management fees and royalties not exceeding BDS$250,000 a transaction. Authorized dealers may open and maintain for- eign currency accounts for companies operating in Barbados earning a minimum of BDS$100,000 annu- ally in foreign exchange; open and maintain foreign currency accounts in the names of nonresidents of Barbados; and open and maintain foreign currency accounts for residents of Barbados earning at least BDS$50,000 annually in foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The maximum import tariff was lowered to 30 percent. August 7. The following items were deleted from the list of items requiring import licenses: orange juice concentrate, other orange juice, grapefruit juice concentrate, and other grapefruit juice; organic sur- face active agents, surface active preparations, wash- ing preparations, and cleaning preparations, whether or not containing soap; transport-type pas- senger motor vehicles, cars and other motor vehi- cles, including station wagons and racing cars, principally designed for the transport of persons (not for public transport); chassis with or without engines for the assembly of coaches and buses; and yachts and other vessels for pleasure or sport. November 16. Uncooked pasta, unstuffed or other- wise prepared, was added to the list of items requir- ing import licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belarus is the Rubel. On August 20,1994, the rubel become the unit of account replac- ing the Belarussian ruble, which was formally recog- nized as the sole legal tender on May 18,1994.1 The conversion took place at the rate of 10 Belarussian rubles per 1 rubel. Restrictions on conversion of non- cash rubels into cash (and vice versa) were abolished on December 31,1995. This has eliminated the differ- entiation that existed between cash and noncash rubels against foreign currencies. The exchange rates of the rubel against the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, the Russian ruble, and the Ukrainian karbova- nets are established in daily auctions2 at the Minsk Interbank Currency Exchange, with the participation of the commercial banks licensed to conduct foreign currency operations and the National Bank of Belarus. The authorities regularly intervene in the auctions. On December 31, 1995, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was Rbl 11,500 per $1. Banks can buy foreign currencies at the auction only for confirmed import orders.3 Authorized banks are also free to trade foreign currencies on the interbank market, although this market was effec- tively closed in November 1995, when a low maxi- mum trading amount was set. There is no formal forward market in foreign currency. Repatriation of profits in convertible currencies is subject to a 15 percent tax payable in a convertible currency. Administration of Control The Parliament is responsible for legislating exchange control regulations and the National Bank is responsible for administering them. The authority to amend exchange control regulations rests with the Parliament, which determines general principles and adopts laws on foreign exchange regulations and control. Foreign exchange regulations are based on provisional regulations issued by the Parliament in March 1992 and subsequently amended on occa- sion. The National Bank manages the Government's 1 Prior to August 20,1994, the Russian ruble also served as legal tender in Belarus. Prospective buyers are obliged to pay the countervalue in do- mestic currency into a special account before the auction takes place. 3In November 1995, a list of imports, for which priority is given for purchases of foreign exchange in the auctions, was adopted. official currency reserves, except for a small amount of government deposits, which are controlled by the Cabinet of Ministers through the Ministry of Finance. Local governments control the local foreign exchange funds. Foreign exchange for official import payments is administratively allocated through state and local government foreign exchange funds. Only banks may obtain licenses to engage in for- eign exchange transactions. Enterprises may obtain permission to open foreign exchange offices, sell goods, and render services for freely convertible cur- rency within Belarus. About half of the commercial banks operating in Belarus hold a general license that enables them to open correspondent accounts outside the country; banks holding a domestic license can conduct foreign exchange operations through general licensed banks. A small number of banks are not allowed to conduct foreign exchange operations. Prescription of Currency Payments to countries with which Belarus has bilateral payments agreements are effected in the currencies specified in these agreements and in accordance with their regulations.4 Payments in the currencies of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made in accordance with the rules specified in an agree- ment signed on October 21, 1994. The agreement with these countries provides for settlement through bilateral clearing accounts held with central banks or authorized commercial banks. Recently, about 10 percent of such settlements have taken place through central bank correspondent accounts, with the balance being settled through commercial bank correspondent accounts. Since January 1, 1995, no trade, other than certain trade with Russia, goes through official correspondent accounts. Settlement may take place in convertible currencies, national currencies, or Russian rubles. Bilateral clearing accounts have been established with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other coun- tries of the former Soviet Union. However, there were only two intergovernmental clearing agree- ments in 1995: the "Roscontract" agreement with 4At the end of 1995, Belarus maintained bilateral trade and /or payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, Czech Repub- lic, Finland, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, and Vietnam. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 BELARUS Russia, which specified the intergovernmental exchange of crude oil from Russia for strategic prod- ucts from Belarus, and a clearing agreement with Uzbekistan calling for the exchange of cotton from Uzbekistan for strategic goods from Belarus on a balanced basis. Foreign trade payments outside the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made in convertible currency. A significant, albeit declining, share of trade is con- ducted within the framework of barter agreements. An attempt is being made to balance the trade with a cash-trading partner, but if an imbalance emerges, it is settled with deliveries of goods or in convert- ible currency. Since September 9, 1992, barter trade of certain goods has required approval from the Commission of the Council of Ministers on the Issu- ance of Authorization to Engage in Commodity- Exchange Operations. Payments in foreign currency for goods and ser- vices (including wage payments) in connection with transactions among residents are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Without declaring the sources of their foreign exchange, residents may open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks in Belarus that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Residents may maintain bank accounts abroad only with the permission of the National Bank. Foreign exchange earnings by resident juridical persons must be repa- triated within 60 days of the date the exports leave the country, and these funds must transit accounts of authorized banks in Belarus, unless the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations approves a delay in this repatriation.5 Nonresident juridical persons may maintain for- eign exchange accounts with authorized banks in Belarus. The sources of the funds can be receipts from abroad; proceeds from the sale of goods and services in the territory of Belarus, including sales to residents; debt-service payments; interest earned on balances in the accounts; funds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus; and earnings from investments in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. These accounts may be debited for purchases of goods and services and for investments in the Bal- tic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, as well as for payments to resi- 5The period allowed for repatriation of export proceeds is 180 days for barter transactions and 30 days for service transactions. With the approval of the Na t ional Bank, the transit account may be held in a bank abroad. dents and nonresidents. Funds from these accounts may be freely repatriated or exchanged for rubels at the market exchange rate through authorized banks. Nonresident juridical persons can also open two types of accounts in rubels at authorized commercial banks. These are designated as "L" accounts and "N" accounts. L accounts can be credited with the rubel counterpart of foreign exchange sold to the National Bank or authorized banks, dividends from foreign-owned enterprises or joint ventures, returns on securities, and sales of such securities within Belarus. Funds from these accounts may be used freely in the territory of the Republic of Belarus and may be converted into foreign currency at the mar- ket exchange rate. N accounts can be funded by pro- ceeds from the sale of goods produced in Belarus or from the sale of goods directly imported from abroad. Balances in these accounts may be used only for business travel expenses; to purchase inputs used for the production of goods for export from Belarus; to purchase foreign exchange at the market exchange rate at auctions (up to the limit of nonresi- dents' initial investment plus proceeds from sales of their output in Belarus); for payment of wages; and for investment purposes as determined by the Gov- ernment with the permission of the Ministry of For- eign Economic Relations.6 Imports and Exports Trade with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union is con- ducted primarily through intergovernmental agree- ments or interenterprise deals. The bilateral trade agreements Belarus maintains with other countries include appendices that list the goods to be delivered by each party.7 In some cases these lists include volume and /or prices. Increas- ingly, these lists are used only as indicators. The guarantee of the delivery of goods under these agreements was previously in the form of state orders. However, state orders have been reduced and, for most products, constitute less than 30 per- cent of total bilateral trade under the agreements (except for oil and certain chemical products, where state orders may exceed 50 percent of the total).8 6Restrictions on the conversion of funds held in nonresident ac- counts were reintroduced in November 1995. 7Belarus has long-term bilateral trade agreements with Kazak- stan, Kyrgyz Republic, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Annual proto- cols are signed under these agreements each year. Belarus regularly signs annual agreements with Latvia, Lithuania, Mold- ova, Russia, and Tajikistan. Negotiations are under way on a pro- tocol for a bilateral trade agreement with Armenia. Enterprises that fill state orders have priority access to prod- ucts imported under trade agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 49 Therefore, trade under these agreements is increas- ingly conducted directly by the enterprises with the assistance of such organizations as Belkontract. Defense-related goods are excluded from trade agreements. Bilateral trade agreements are used primarily for two reasons. First, goods traded under such agree- ments are generally subject to zero or reduced tax rates; second, for key goods from some countries, access to these goods is possible only via a quota that is issued by that country's government as part of a bilateral trade agreement. Trade in these products exceeding the volume specified in the appendices and in products not included in the appendices of the trade agreements is mainly conducted through interenterprise deals. Settlement difficulties, primarily due to lack of for- eign exchange on the part of one or both enterprises, have caused most such deals to be conducted on a barter basis. As a result of the customs union agreement between Belarus and Russia signed January 6,1995, and the Protocol on Free Trade between Belarus and Russia signed on January 5, 1995, there are now no customs barriers on trade between the two coun- tries, and the countries have adopted a common trade policy toward other countries. Since May 1, 1995, export earnings in Russian rubles are exempt from surrender requirements. All export proceeds must be deposited in a "transit" account in a bank in Belarus within 60 days of ship- ping, unless special permission for a longer period of repatriation has been approved by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations; the period is 180 days for goods exported under a barter or clearing con- tract and 30 days for service exports. Surrender requirements on foreign exchange pro- ceeds in convertible currencies were eliminated as of July 1,1995. Prior to the elimination of the surrender requirements, these proceeds were sold in the inter- bank currency auction. Export proceeds in convert- ible currencies are subject to the same repatriation requirements as those exports to countries of the Bal- tic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. Residents do not need a license or approval from the National Bank to conduct foreign exchange oper- ations related to trade, except for (1) down pay- ments for imports or services exceeding $10,000 or the equivalent that represent more than 30 percent of the value of the goods or services imported; (2) payments for imports more than 60 days in advance of receipt of the goods in Belarus, which requires the advance permission of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations;9 and (3) interest pay- ments to nonresidents on returned down payments when an original contract is not fulfilled. Foreign exchange purchased for imports has to be used within a period of 30 days from the date of purchase. Export bans exist for some medicinal herbs, arts and antique collections, certain wild animals, goods imported into Belarus on a humanitarian basis, and certain types of leather. The list of items under export quotas and licensing requirements includes only crude oil and some refined oil products, min- eral fertilizers, and certain types of nonprocessed timber. Belarus had abolished all export taxes on December 2, 1994. However, under the customs union agreement with Russia, Belarus adopted Rus- sian export taxes by Decree 218 of the Cabinet of Ministers, approved April 19,1995.10 A new import tariff structure was similarly intro- duced by the Cabinet of Ministers Decree 219, approved on April 19, 1995, whereby Belarus adopted Russian import duties. As a result of changes in Russian customs duties, Belarus adopted a new amended Decree 340 of June 29, 1995. These duties were implemented in three phases (on May 1, June 10, and August 20,1995). Import duty rates for goods subject to minimum rates (plants, seeds, indi- vidual foodstuffs, raw materials, ores, petroleum, and spare parts) range from 1 percent to 5 percent, while import duty rates for goods subject to maxi- mum rates (weapons, ammunition, precious metal products, carpets, and motor vehicles) range from 40 percent to 100 percent. There are numerous exceptions. Regular import du ty rates apply to countries that have been accorded most-favored- nation treatment. Import duty rates are doubled if goods are imported from a country that has not been accorded most-favored-nation treatment. These are halved or reduced to zero for developing countries covered by Russia's provisional system of preferences. The importing of radioactive or toxic wastes, as well as publications or videos that are against state morals, health, or security are prohib- ited, while import licenses are required for the importing of certain pesticides, herbicides, and industrial wastes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident individuals are permitted to purchase up to $500 a year at the market exchange rate for tourist travel; larger amounts may be taken out with cus- 9For goods imported under barter or clearing arrangements, the period is 180 days, while for service imports, the period is 30 days. 10A wide range of exported goods, including pharmaceuticals, fish, meat, weapons, crude petroleum, na tu ral gas, gasoline, and fertilizers, are subject to ad valorem or specific rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 BELARUS toms declaration proof that they were brought into Belarus or with a certificate from an authorized bank that they were exchanged legally. However, persons with international credit cards who use such cards for tourist travel expenses can purchase foreign exchange to settle the obligations on those cards. There are no restrictions on the purchase of foreign exchange for bona fide expenses related to business travel or invisible transactions such as education, medical treatment, family maintenance, repatria- tion of salaries and wages, payment of insurance premiums, and profit remittances. Post-1992 Russian banknotes up to Rub 500 may be taken abroad or brought into the country when traveling to the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union; a similar policy applies to the importation and exportation of rubel banknotes, for which the limit is Rbl 100,000 for travel to the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. Resi- dents of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union may pay for air and train tickets as well as hotel expenses in Russian rubles; nonresidents may be required to pay for these expenses in a convertible currency. Capital The properties owned by foreign investors in Belarus are protected from expropriation.11 Foreign investors are guaranteed full freedom to repatriate their initial investment capital and profits earned in Belarus. Foreign investment must be registered at the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and, in the case of financial institutions, also at the National Bank. At the time of registration, the enterprise obtains a license to engage in activities in a particu- lar area of specialization and may not pursue other activities. The proportion of equity capital share by nonresidents in direct investments is not restricted, except in the financial sector where it cannot exceed 49 percent. Nonresidents may participate in foreign exchange auctions through authorized banks. As of March 29,1995, the importing of securities issued by non-Belarussian companies is prohibited, except with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Enterprises with more than 30 percent foreign capital ownership are permitted to export their products and import inputs necessary for their pro- duction without restriction. These enterprises are exempted from income tax for the three years fol- 11 The law on Foreign Investment of the Supreme Soviet (dated November 14, 1991) guarantees that terms offered to foreign in- vestors would remain unchanged for at least five years. lowing the first year the enterprise reports a profit. If the enterprise is deemed to be essential for the econ- omy of Belarus by the Cabinet of Ministers, the income tax rate may be reduced by 50 percent for an additional three-year period. External borrowing by residents must be regis- tered with the Ministry of Finance, and the opening of bank accounts abroad requires approval from the National Bank. Gold A license is required for the exportation of gold, which is on the short list of products (together with arms, radioactive materials, and narcotics) under the strictest licensing requirements. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The restrictions on the conversion of noncash rubels into cash rubels were removed, and the foreign exchange market, which had been seg- mented into cash and noncash transactions, was unified. July 1. Banks were authorized to trade both U.S. dollars and Russian rubles on the interbank market in addition to the auction market (Resolution No. 543, National Bank of Belarus, adopted in June). November 1. A list of imports, for which priority is given for purchases of foreign exchange in the auc- tions, was adopted. November 13. A low maximum trading amount was set for operations in the interbank market that effectively closed it down. Resident and Nonresident Accounts August 2. The limitation on the convertibility of interest earned on so-called rubel "N" accounts was removed (National Bank letter No. 629 to banks). November 13. Restrictions on the conversion of funds held in nonresident accounts were reintroduced. Imports and Exports January 6. The customs union agreement between Belarus and Russia was signed. April 19. Belarus adopted Russian export taxes (Decree No. 218 of the Cabinet of Ministers) and decided to adopt Russian import duties in three phases: on May 1, June 10, and August 1, 1995 (Decree No. 219 of the Cabinet of Ministers). May 1. Surrender requirements for export earn- ings in Russian rubles were eliminated. May 1. Repatriation requirements were tightened. All export proceeds were required to be deposited in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 51 a "transit" account in a bank in Belarus or, with spe- cial permission of the National Bank, abroad (Presi- dential Decree No. 52). May 15. Surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds in U.S. dollars and other hard currencies were reduced to 30 percent. May 26. The customs union between Russia and Belarus came into effect. All export taxes on trade, as well as other barriers between the two countries, were eliminated. Belarus adopted new schedules for export and import tariffs to conform with those in effect in Russia. June 27. The lists of minimum and maximum export and import prices were abolished (Resolution No. 334 of the Cabinet of Ministers). June 29. The schedule for import duties was amended as a result of changes in Russian customs duties (Decree No. 340 of the Cabinet of Ministers). July 1. Surrender requirements for export proceeds in U.S. dollars and other hard currencies were eliminated. November 13. The period within which foreign exchange purchased for imports must be used was reduced to 30 days from 45 days. Capital March 29. Imports of securities issued by non- Belarussian companies were subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc, and the currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. Belgium and Luxem- bourg participate with Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mecha- nism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain spot exchange rates between their currencies and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates derived from the cen- tral rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31,1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG 53 Prescription of Currency Proceeds from Invisibles No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) certain specified imports from all countries,5 including many textile and steel products, certain agricultural products and foodstuffs, diamonds, weapons, and products other than textiles from China. All other commodi- ties are free of license requirements. Many com- modities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other EU countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU coun- tries in the framework of the Multifiber Arrange- ment (MFA) quota on a number of steel products from Russia, Ukraine, and Kazakstan, and quotas on a number of products from China (toys, shoes, ceramics, porcelain, and glassware) and also applies a system of minimum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EU are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non- EU countries. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. Domestic and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for a few prod- ucts, mostly of a strategic character, and for dia- monds, and some iron and steel products. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be surrendered and may be used for all payments. 5 Most imports do not require an import license when im- ported from the member countries of the European Union (EU). There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. Domestic and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the BLEU by nonresidents or abroad by residents. There are no restrictions on transactions in Belgian or Luxembourg francs or foreign currency securities, which may be exported or imported without formality. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits from residents or nonresidents. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capi- tal market by nonresidents and for public bids by nonresidents for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies except if the foreign company or individual involved is a resident of an EU country. Bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs may be issued freely on the Luxembourg capital market. After they are issued, they are reported to the Luxembourg Monetary Institute, mainly for statistical purposes. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins and bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settlements of gold may be made freely. Imports and transactions in monetary gold are subject to a 1 percent value-added tax in Belgium. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at a rate of BZ$1 per US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Belize and the commercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063, respectively, per US$1. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$1.9825 and BZ$2.0175, respec- tively, per US$1. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a number of currencies of member countries of CARicoM.1 A stamp duty of 1.25 percent is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Belize accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 14,1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for administering exchange control, which applies to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is ref- erence made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry administers trade controls. country must be made in the currency of that country. Nonresident Accounts Banks must have permission from the Central Bank to open external or foreign currency accounts. The Central Bank may also stipulate that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization from the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. However, in June 1995, the Central Bank began to ration its sales of foreign exchange to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis, except for a few essential import items such as fuel and pharmaceuticals. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods-mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally administered. There are no quota limits or other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Most imports are sub- ject to a stamp duty of 14 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports by most of the public sector and certain nonprofit entities, imports of an emergency or humanitarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. In November 1995, specific taxes on imports of beer, tobacco products, and fuel were raised.3 Prescription of Currency Payments for Invisibles The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies2 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments within certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign exchange: (1) nonbusiness travel by resi- 1 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for Barbados dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 2 Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Carribean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars, and U.S. dollars. 3 The surcharge (revenue replacement duty) on imported beer was raised to BZ$22.81 per imperial gallon from BZ$19.06; the import du ty on cigars, cheroots, and cigarillos was raised to BZ$26.67 per Ib. from BZ$16.67; the import du ty on other cigars and tobacco products was raised to BZ$20.00 per Ib. from BZ$12.50; the import du ty on snuff was raised to BZ$24.80 per Ib. from BZ$15.50 per Ib.; and the surcharge (revenue replace- ment du ty) on fuel imports was raised by 25 cents per imperial gallon. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 55 dents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a calendar year; (2) business travel by residents, BZ$500 a day a per- son, up to a maximum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) busi- ness or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of foreign cur- rency; and (4) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank, which grants all bona fide requests. Since June 1995, the Central Bank has also rationed its sale of foreign exchange for invisible payments to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis except for a few essential items such as insurance. Foreign exchange is provided for payment of correspon- dence courses by the authorized dealers when applications are properly documented. Exports of foreign and domestic banknotes and currency are subject to limits as follows: each trav- eler may carry domestic banknotes up to BZ$100 and the equivalent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these limits require the approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when justified. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most export products. Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless directed otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items4 are sub- ject to an ad valorem export du ty of 5 percent. Re- exports and transshipments are subject to a 3 percent customs administration fee. Since mid- 1995, the Central Bank has resorted to direct pur- chases of sugar export proceeds bypassing the tra- ditional practice of purchasing from commercial banks. 4 Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and wild ani- mals. For sugar, the export du ty is 2 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Belize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but imports of foreign currency are not restricted. Resident travel- ers are required to sell their excess holdings of for- eign currencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require the approval of the Central Bank, but control is liberally administered. Foreign direct investment is encouraged, and inves- tors benefit from a number of fiscal incentives. Gold Residents may not hold gold except with specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may be neither imported nor exported without the approval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments November 7. Parliament raised the import taxes, as follows: (1) the surcharge (revenue replacement duty) on imported beer was raised to BZ$22.81 per imperial gallon from BZ$19.06; (2) the import duty on cigars, cheroots, and cigarillos was raised to BZ$26.67 per pound from BZ$16.67; (3) the import duty on cigarettes was raised to BZ$34.40 per pound from BZ$21.50; (4) the import duty on other cigars and tobacco products was raised to BZ$20.00 per pound from BZ$12.50; (5) the import du ty on snuff was raised to BZ$24.80 per pound from BZ$15.50; and (6) the surcharge (revenue replace- ment duty) on fuel imports was raised by 25 cents per imperial gallon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.01. The offi- cial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5 per mil on transfers to all coun- tries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAEMU), which must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For- ward exchange contracts may be arranged with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. The maturity period cannot be extended. With the exception of those relating to gold, the repatriation of export proceeds, the issuing, adver- tising, offering for sale of securities and capital assets, and the soliciting of funds for investment abroad, the exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Burkina Faso, Cam- eroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. For cer- tain controls relating to capital flows, the countries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as for- eign countries. Benin accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance, however, in collaboration with the BCEAO, draws up the ]The CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. exchange control regulations. The BCEAO is autho- rized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relat- ing to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses for goods from the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) State signatories to the Lome Convention and from mem- ber countries of European Union (EU) and Opera- tions Account countries have been abolished. Upon the recommendation of the Directorate of Monetary and Financial Affairs of the Ministry of Finance, exports of diamonds or other precious or semipre- cious stones and precious metals require authoriza- tion from the Directorate of External Commerce. Prescription of Currency Because Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other coun- tries linked to the French Treasury through an Oper- ations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts Because the BCEAO has suspended the repur- chase of banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Trans- fers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Certain agencies have an import monopoly over specified commodities. Imports of goods from all origins and sources are freely imported. Before shipment, goods from all 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 57 sources are subject to inspection for quality and price. All imports valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Importers may not purchase foreign exchange to pay for imports earlier than eight days before sup- pliers ship the goods if a documentary credit is opened, and only on the due date of payment if the goods have already been imported. Customs duties consist of five bands (i.e., zero, 5 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent). A statistical tax of 3 percent is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are permit- ted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of Monetary and Finan- cial Affa irs of the Ministry of Finance, but for many types of invisibles, the approval authority has been delegated to authorized intermediary banks. Autho- rized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to prior authorization. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the f ranc zone other than WAEMU member countries are allowed to take out the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in banknotes other than the CFA franc; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the f ranc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or dif- ferentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for busi- ness travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the respec- tive ministries of finance; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries specifically approved by the Ministry of Finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident trav- elers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surren- der within eight days all means of payment exceed- ing the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Upon departure, all residents traveling to countries that are not mem- bers of the WAEMU must declare in writing all means of payment in their possession. Nonresident travelers may re-export all means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in their name, subject to documentation that they had used funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or other foreign exchange to purchase these means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re- exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceil- ings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of non- resident deposits lodged in local banks. Upon presentation of an appropriate pay voucher, a residence permit, and documents indicating family situation, foreigners working in Benin may transfer up to 50 percent of their net salary abroad if they live with their family in Benin, or up to 80 percent if their family is living abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all foreign countries, including those in the Operations Account area, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports of diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, with the exception of articles with a small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than ten pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomi- nation). Prior authorization for exports of these three product categories is granted by the Directorate of Monetary and Financial Affa irs of the Ministry of Finance. Receipts from exports must be repatriated to Benin, through the BCEAO, at the initiative of the authorized bank within 30 days of the contractual due date, and must be sold to authorized banks within 180 days of the arrival of the shipment at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts with the French Treasury may be retained. All amounts due from res- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 BENIN idents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area.2 Resident travelers bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days of their return to Benin. Capital Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval from the Min- ister of Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls, in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable, are main- tained over borrowing abroad; over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in for- eign countries; and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization from the Min- ister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Govern- ment, and (2) shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the excep- tion of controls over foreign securities, these mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAEMU, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account. Special controls are also main- tained over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and insti- tutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts. Effective August 1, 1993, the repurchase of CFAF notes of the BCEAO in circulation outside member countries of the WAEMU was suspended. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance; at least 75 percent of the investments must be financed from foreign borrowing.3 Foreign direct investments in Benin4 must be declared to the Minis- ter before they are made. The Minister may request postponement of the operations within a period of two months. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as those that imply control of a company or enterprise. Investment that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange is not considered direct investment. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international trade and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not con- stituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Finance, if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code (Law No. 90-002 of May 9, 1990) stipulates that preferential status may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism that are deemed to contribute to national develop- ment. Fiscal benefits are extended to approved investors under two regimes: the preferential and the special regimes. The preferential regime consists of three categories: A, B, and C. Category A applies Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Benin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 59 to small and medium-size enterprises; category B, to large enterprises; and category C, to very large enterprises. Enterprises falling under category A must have investments valued at between CFAF 20 million and CFAF 500 million and employ at least five perma- nent Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from customs duties and levies on equip- ment and materials during the investment period (excluding the local roads and statistical taxes), as well as from income tax for five to nine years, depending on the geographic location of their investment in Benin. Enterprises qualifying for cate- gory B must undertake investments valued at more than CFAF 500 million (but less than CFAF 3 billion) and employ at least 20 Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from virtually all border taxes on imports of equipment and materials for the period the investment is being undertaken, and, for the duration of the investment, they are exempt from export taxes and from taxes on profits. Enter- prises qualifying for category C benefits must undertake investments in excess of CFAF 3 billion. They enjoy the same tax and duty privileges as cate- gory B enterprises. In addition, enterprises in this category are guaranteed stability of tax status for the duration of the agreement. Enterprises qualifying under the special regime are those with investments valued at between CFAF 5 million and CFAF 20 million that provide services in health, education, or public works. They benefit from a 75 percent reduction in the applicable border taxes (excluding the local roads and statisti- cal taxes) on imported equipment and materials related to their operations. The modalities of imple- menting this legislation are set out in Decree No. 91- 2 of January 4,1991. Gold Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ruling by the Directorate of Monetary and Financial Affairs of the Ministry of Finance, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a max- imum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments June 22. Imports of goods from all origins and from all sources were liberalized. Exports and Export Proceeds May 19. Exports of food crops were temporarily suspended during the summer of 1995. The suspen- sion was lifted on September 15. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Benin accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum, the exter- nal value of which is pegged to the Indian rupee. Indian rupees also circulate in Bhutan at a rate of Nu 1 per Re 1. The rates for currencies other than Indian rupees are determined on the basis of the pre- vailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those currencies. If no large transactions are involved, exchange rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quota- tions by the Reserve Bank of India. No other exchange rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 29,1995, the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar (cash) were Nu 34.45 and Nu 35.65, respectively, per $1, the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar (traveler's checks) were Nu 34.60 and Nu 35.45, respectively, per $1. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transac- tions and provides foreign exchange for most cur- rent and capital transactions. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to the Royal Monetary Authority the authority to release foreign exchange (other than Indian rupees) for current transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority is charged with implementing the surrender requirements for pro- ceeds from merchandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for imports. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. Imports and Import Payments Except for imports of large capital goods, for which clearance by the Ministry of Finance is required, there are no restrictions on payments or transfers relating to any current account transaction with India. Clearance by the Ministry of Finance is required for the importation of capital and interme- diate goods from third countries. The release of for- eign exchange is managed separately by the Royal Monetary Authority upon recommendation by the Ministry of Finance. The Royal Monetary Authority does not provide foreign exchange to importers of consumer goods; the latter must make their own arrangements to obtain the foreign exchange before an import license is issued. Customs duties are levied on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at one of four rates ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent of the c.i.f. value, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the highest rate applying to processed products. Exports of antiques of Bhu- tanese origin require government approval. Pro- ceeds of exports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan within 90 days. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Most invisible payments, other than those made in Indian rupees, must be approved by the Royal Monetary Authority. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority. Capital All capital transactions must be approved by the Ministry of Finance. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and the trade system. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the Boliviano. The offi- cial selling exchange rate is the weighted average of public sales of foreign exchange performed by the Central Bank of Bolivia. This official exchange rate applies to all foreign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves (Comite de Cambio y Reser- vas) in the Central Bank. Before each auction, the Committee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the Central Bank will not accept any bids. This floor price is the official exchange rate and is based on the exchange rates of the deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and U.S. dollar. The Central Bank is required to offer in all auctions uni- tary lots of $5,000 or multiples of this amount; the minimum allowable bid is $5,000. Successful bidders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the maximum and minimum bids have been less than 2 percent. On December 31, 1995, the official buying and selling rates were Bs 4.93 and Bs 4.94, respectively, per $1. Sales of foreign exchange by the Central Bank to the public are subject to a commission of Bs 0.01 per $1 over its buying rate. Except for the requirement to surrender the net proceeds from the exportation of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses, companies, and individuals may buy and sell for- eign exchange freely. Successful bids channeled through the banking system are voided if the bank- ing institution submitting the bid is not complying with the obligation of transferring funds from its accounts at the Commercial Bank of Bolivia to a spe- cial account at the Central Bank (cuenta "provision bolsini") that is for the sole purpose of buying for- eign exchange. Banks are allowed to hold foreign exchange positions up to the value of the net worth minus fixed assets. All public sector institutions, including public enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the Central Bank auction market. There is a parallel but tolerated exchange market, in which the buying and selling exchange rates on December 31,1995, were Bs 4.93 and Bs 4.95, respec- tively, per $1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bolivia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 5,1967. Administration of Control The Central Bank is in charge of operating the auc- tion market for foreign exchange. It is also the enforcing agency for export surrender requirements as well as for other exchange control regulations. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank, is in charge of approving public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt-service payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All goods may be freely imported, with the excep- tion of those controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Bolivia has a general uniform tariff of 10 percent. A tariff rate of 5 percent is applied to capital goods, and a rate of 2 percent is applied to imports of books and printed material. Donations of food, including wheat, are exempt from the import tar iff. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Profit remittances abroad are subject to a 12.5 percent tax (which is computed as equivalent to the 25 percent income tax times the presumed net profit of 50 percent of the amount remitted). Resi- dents traveling by air to neighboring countries are required to pay a travel tax of Bs 100; the tax on travel to other foreign destinations is Bs 150. Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the Ministry of Finance and 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 BOLIVIA the Central Bank. The Investment Law does not restrict remittance of profits abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be freely exported. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate within 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export trans- action. Exports other than hydrocarbons are subject to an inspection fee of 1.55 percent for nontradi- tional products and 1.6 percent for traditional prod- ucts; these fees are paid by the Government and not by the exporters. A system of tax rebates reimburses exporters for indirect taxes and import duty paid on inputs of exported goods and services, including the duty component of depreciation of capital goods used. Exporters of small items whose value in Bolivia's annual exports is less than $3 million receive tax rebates of 2 percent or 4 percent of the f.o.b. export value under a simplified procedure, and other exporters receive tax and import duty rebates based on annually determined coefficients that reflect their documented cost structure. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agen- cies may retain the proceeds from their foreign exchange purchases from invisible transactions, including those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased only from the commercial banks or from the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but government receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sec- tor agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' cred- its, to government agencies and autonomous enti- ties, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. Financial institutions in Bolivia may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the external sector with resources from international financial institutions, foreign government agencies, or external lines of credit. Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, banks are authorized to conduct foreign trade operations, such as letters of credit, bonds and guarantees, advances and acceptances, loans for required financing with their correspondents abroad, and other operations gener- ally accepted in international banking, in favor of the country's exporters and importers. Banks are allowed to hold foreign exchange posi- tions up to the value of their net worth minus fixed assets. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of September 1990 (Law No. 1182 on Investment), which treats domestic and foreign investors equally. The law is administered by the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Law. Gold Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, gold may be traded freely, subject to a tax of 3 percent on the gross value of sale of gold bullion (Supreme Decree No. 23394, February 3,1993). Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments November 6. The import tariffs on wheat flour, sugar, and maize were suspended for 180 days (Supreme Decree No. 24519). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA1 (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the Bosnian Dinar, which has been pegged to the deut- sche mark at BDin 100 per DM 1 since its introduc- tion in July 1994. The Bosnian dinar is issued by the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is legal tender in the Bosnian-majority area of Bosnia. It is not legal tender in the Croat- or Serbian-major- ity areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina; these two areas use the Croatian kuna and the Yugoslav dinar, respectively. The Bosnian- and Croatian-majority areas form the Federation while the Serbian-major- ity area is known as the Republika Srpska. The deut- sche mark is widely used in all three areas. Until December 9, 1995, the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina also used a "stimulation exchange rate" to help build foreign reserves, which at the time of its elimination was BDin 105 per DM 1. The National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which operates as a de facto currency board, com- municates exchange rates to the commercial banks at least once a day. If there are significant changes in the rate during the day (that is, to the second deci- mal place), revised rates are communicated. Banks must charge the same rates for all transactions. In the Republika Srpska, the National Bank of Repub- lika Srpska receives from the National Bank of the Former Republic of Yugoslavia at the close of each business day a list of buying and selling exchange rates for the major currencies. These rates are for- warded to the commercial banks and applied to the next day's transactions. Banks must charge the same rates for all transactions. There is no bank in the Croatian-majority area that acts as a central bank. The National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina is responsible for some central banking functions in the Croatian-majority area but not for the use of Croatian kuna. In both the Bosnian- and Serbian-majority areas, commercial banks are free to buy and sell foreign exchange in the interbank market without restric- tions but must report all transactions to the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina on a regular basis and to the National Bank of Republika Srpska, on a daily basis. 1On December 20, 1995, Bosnia and Herzegovina became a member of the Fund by succeeding to the membership of the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia. The National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina administers foreign exchange control regulations in the Federation with limited delegation to commer- cial banks. The National Bank of Republika Srpska oversees foreign exchange regulations in the Repub- lika Srpska, although the commercial banks are responsible for implementing controls; the banks provide the National Bank of Republika Srpska with the documentation for all foreign exchange transac- tions on a regular basis. Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the holding of foreign exchange by individuals or enterprises in the Bos- nian-majority area, although there is a limit of DM 2,000 on the amount of cash that an individual is permitted to carry across international borders at any one time. There is no limit on the frequency of border crossings with less than DM 2,000. Individu- als and exporters can hold foreign exchange in accounts with commercial banks and do not need to supply evidence of the source of these funds. There are no restrictions on withdrawals from these accounts for domestic transactions. There are restric- tions on withdrawals for the purpose of making for- eign transactions. Foreign exchange held in these accounts need not be surrendered to the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but if a bank pur- chases any of the foreign exchange held in these accounts, 45 percent of that amount must be surren- dered to the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzego- vina. There are no regulations on banks' foreign exchange open positions. Individuals and exporters in the Republika Srpska can hold foreign exchange in accounts with commer- cial banks and do not need to supply evidence of the source of these funds. There are no restrictions on withdrawals from these accounts for domestic trans- actions, however, there are restrictions on withdraw- als for the purpose of making payments abroad. The limit on cash taken across international borders is DM 1,000 a trip, but there is no limit on the fre- quency of border crossings with less than DM 1,000. No foreign currency exposure limits apply to com- mercial banks that accept foreign currency deposits, but the banks must provide a guarantee and insure the accounts with an insurance company. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA Imports and Exports All importers in the Federation must be registered with a local court and with the Ministry of Foreign Trade. An importer can purchase foreign exchange for importing goods and services without drawing on foreign exchange held in bank accounts. Foreign exchange is rationed, with priority given to raw materials and essentials such as drugs; a list is main- tained with goods and services listed in descending order of priority. Also, the Ministry of Foreign Trade classifies goods into three regimes: free; subject to quotas (for the protection of local industry); and banned (for health, environmental, or military reasons). In the Republika Srpska, an importer must use all foreign exchange held in bank accounts before being entitled to purchase any further foreign exchange from a commercial bank or from the National Bank of Republika Srpska. Commercial banks ration for- eign exchange, with priority given to raw materials and goods that meet basic human needs. Restric- tions are imposed on the importation of goods for which domestic production is significant. Fifteen percent of proceeds from exports of goods and services in the Bosnian-majority area must be surrendered to the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina within 48 hours of repatriation in exchange for Bosnian dinars at the official exchange rate. Exports by companies that deal abroad are sub- ject to a surrender requirement of 5 percent. There are no quantitative restrictions on exports from the Federation but exporters must be registered with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and a local court. There are no taxes or subsidies on exports and no monopo- lies granted for any exports. In the Republika Srpska, 20 percent of the pro- ceeds from exports of goods and services must be surrendered to the National Bank of Republika Srpska immediately upon repatriation. There are no quantitative restrictions on exports, but the exporter must be registered with the National Bank of Repub- lika Srpska and with a local court. The Ministry of Foreign Trade also imposes some controls on the re- exportation of some imports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles The National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina makes foreign exchange available as a priority for the importation of business-related services. How- ever, debt-service payments were removed from the priority list in April 1992. Foreign exchange for indi- vidual travel abroad is limited to DM 2,000 a trip for the total cost of the trip (including airfare). However, there is no limit on payments for travel made before departure and effected through the commercial banks. Also, there is no limit on the frequency of trips in any period. Special authorization is required for larger amounts. Payments abroad for medical care are on the priority list but require documenta- tion from the Ministry of Health and from the Minis- try of Finance. The importation of other services by individuals requires approval by the commercial banks, in consultation with the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Payments of pensions from Germany resumed in December 1995 following an agreement in which the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides documentation to Germany that the pensions have been paid by the commercial banks under its jurisdiction. In the Republika Srpska, the purchase of foreign exchange for business-related services is unre- stricted upon provision of the appropriate documen- tation to the commercial banks. The purchase of foreign exchange for individual travel abroad is lim- ited to DM 1,000 a trip for the total cost of the trip (including airfare). There is no limit on the number of trips, but special authorization is required for larger amounts. Payments abroad for medical care require documentation from the Ministry of Health and a pro forma invoice from the service provider. The purchase of foreign exchange by individuals for the importation of other services requires approval from the commercial banks, in consultation with the National Bank of Republika Srpska. Pension receipts from Germany have fallen to low levels as a result of sanctions and emigration. Capital There are no restrictions on direct foreign invest- ments in the Federation, provided all other regula- tions in force are complied with. Full repatriation of after-tax profits and capital are permitted. Foreign investors are exempt from taxation of initial imports and of raw materials imported in the first year of operation. Loans from abroad involving a govern- ment guarantee must be approved by Parliament on the advice of the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Finance. Neither of these institutions has been delegated the authority to contract or guarantee loans, but the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina can borrow abroad for up to one year. A special law would be required for each state loan or guarantee. Direct and portfolio investments abroad by Bos- nian-majority area residents requires permission from the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 65 The Republika Srpska also imposes no restrictions on direct investment from abroad and allows full repatriation of after-tax profits and capital after all domestic financial claims have been settled. Loans from abroad involving a guarantee from commercial banks require permission from the National Bank of Republika Srpska to ensure that the debt-servicing requirements are consistent with the fu tu re avail- ability of foreign exchange. A special license is required from the Government, based on advice from the National Bank of Republika Srpska and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, in order for Republika Srpska residents to undertake direct and portfolio investment abroad. Capital transfers abroad of inheritances and pensions are permitted, subject to documentation requirements. Other capital transfers abroad require special permission from the National Bank of Republika Srpska. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula. Its external value in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket of currencies comprising the SDR and currencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31,1995, the closing middle rate for the U.S. dollar was P 2.8217 per $1; on the same date, the rate for the SDR was P 4.1876 per SDR 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other dealing currencies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international mar- kets. For information only, middle rates are quoted for certain other currencies.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. External loans undertaken by parastatals before October 1,1990 have been protected from exchange rate movements under a foreign exchange risk- sharing scheme. At the end of 1995, the scheme applied to 16 outstanding loans. Under the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4 percent are fully borne by the borrower, while the next 6 percent and the following 5 percent of fluctuations are shared between the borrower and the Government on a 50:50 and 25:75 basis, respec- tively. Risks associated with exchange rate fluctua- tions in excess of 15 percent are fully borne by the Government. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the Government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. Forward exchange cover is also offered by the commercial banks. Forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign currency pro- ceeds derived from the exportation of goods for up to six months. Botswana accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Articles of Agree- ment on November 17,1995. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and Development Planning has delegated most of the 1 Deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and South A f r ican rand. Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, European currency units, and SDKs. administration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana, the central bank. The latter, in turn, has delegated considerable powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Since January 1,1994, remit- tances for payments of imports of goods and ser- vices have been handled by the commercial banks without reference to the central bank. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign coun- tries must normally be made or received in a for- eign currency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Companies operating in Botswana are permitted to open foreign currency accounts with commercial banks in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South African rand, and U.S. dollars. Commercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for permanent and temporary residents and nonresidents. The accounts are to facilitate foreign receipts and payments for approved transactions, without having to convert foreign currency receipts into pula and vice versa, and to protect against changes in exchange rates. The restriction on specified foreign currencies was removed, and commercial banks were allowed to open foreign currency accounts in any currency at their discretion. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are gener- ally no import restrictions on goods moving among the five countries. The arrangement provides for the free movement of goods and the right of transit among members, as well as a common external tar- iff. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domes- tic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they meet certain local value-added requirements and are not intended for re-export. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 67 Import shipments exceeding P 5,000 require docu- mentation before foreign exchange is released. Applications for forward purchases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports when the contract covers a period exceeding six months must be referred to the central bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account within six months of the date of expor- tation. Retention of export proceeds for up to one year to finance certain transactions may be permit- ted by the central bank on a case-by-case basis. The value of goods that can be given as gifts to nonresi- dents is limited to P 3,000 per year. A few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, require permits before they can be exported. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve a range of current payments within limits is delegated to commercial banks; any remittances in excess of those limits must be referred to the central bank for prior approval. Once the bona fide nature of applications has been established and all other requirements have been fulfilled by the applicant, remittances are approved. On January 1,1995, annual consolidated personal foreign payment allowances (including for travel, subscriptions, and other payments) were set at the equivalent of P 100,000 per calendar year for an adult and P 50,000 for a child under the age of 18 years. On the same date, a consolidated busi- ness allowance to cover business travel, royalties, franchises, management fees, etc., was set at P 1 million per year. Permanent residents may use credit cards in Botswana for settlement of both pula and foreign currency liabilities; airline tickets may be purchased directly from travel agents or remit- ted from abroad, and they are not counted as part of the annual travel allowance. The amount of unused foreign currency for travel that a resident may retain for fu ture travel use is the equivalent of P 2,000 in currency or traveler's checks; any excess amount must be surrendered within six months of the date of return. A temporary resident employed on a contractual basis may remit abroad annually, without reference to the central bank, P 25,000 or 65 percent of total eli- gible earnings, whichever is greater; the limit appli- cable to a self-employed temporary resident is P 50,000 or 65 percent of eligible earnings, which- ever is greater. The period during which temporary residents are allowed to remit their earnings abroad is a block of 36 months, or the period of employ- ment, whichever is shorter. Separately, travelers residing in Botswana may take out domestic bank- notes and /or foreign currency in amounts of P 5,000 a trip, and may freely bring in any amount of domestic banknotes and coins. Visitors may take out any foreign currency that they brought in with them. The central bank may authorize residents to maintain foreign currency accounts with banks abroad in cases where there is a proven commercial need for such a facility. Capital Pension and life insurance funds may invest up to one-half of their funds abroad, subject to the requirement of 12 month's advance notice to the central bank of the intention to repatriate funds. Businesses and individuals may invest abroad up to PI million and PI00,000, respectively. However, companies must be commercially active for at least two years and must be registered with the Depart- ment of Taxes. Foreign inward direct investment in new or existing businesses is generally encouraged but must be financed with funds from external sources. On disinvestment by a nonresident, the central bank allows immediate repatriation of pro- ceeds up to a maximum of P 50 million. The excess may be required to be repatriated in installments over a period not exceeding three years. Authorized dealers may approve remittances of dividends/ profits without referring to the central bank. Remit- tances of interim dividends are permitted only for companies listed in the Botswana Stock Exchange. Inward portfolio investment is also permitted in shares issued by companies quoted on the Botswana Stock Exchange, provided the funds for financing the acquisitions originate with a nonresi- dent source. Nonresident-controlled companies incorporated in Botswana may make similar invest- ments (referred to as internal portfolio invest- ments), which need not be financed with funds from external sources. In the case of both inward and internal portfolio investments, a shareholder or his nominee may not acquire an interest in excess of 5 percent of the company's paid-up stock. Total portfolio holdings by nonresidents, including non- resident-controlled companies, may not exceed 49 percent of the "free stock" of a local company, that is, total stock issued and paid up less stock held by nonresident direct investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 BOTSWANA Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 1. Companies operating in Botswana were permitted to open foreign currency accounts with commercial banks in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South Afr ican rand, and U.S. dollars. July 31. Commercial banks were authorized to open foreign currency accounts for individual per- manent and temporary residents, nonresident indi- viduals, and incorporated entities. The accounts are to facilitate foreign receipts and payments for approved transactions, without having to convert foreign currency receipts into pula and vice versa, and to protect against changes in exchange rates. The restriction on specified foreign currencies was removed and commercial banks were allowed to open foreign currency accounts in any currency at their discretion. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. An annual consolidated allowance to meet personal foreign payments —travel, subscrip- tions, and other payments —was set at an indicative limit of P 100,000 an adu lt and P 50,000 a child under 18 years of age. January 1. An annual consolidated business allowance was set at an indicative limit of P 1 mil- lion to cover business travel, royalties, management fees, and other payments (excluding imports). Capital January 1. Individuals and businesses were per- mitted to make direct or portfolio investments abroad up to P 100,000 and P1 million, respectively. However, a qualifying company must have been operational for the previous two years and regis- tered with the Department of Taxes. Nonresident-controlled companies may also invest with domestic currency funds in any securi- ties issued by the central bank. Nonresident-con- trolled companies (including branches of foreign companies) are permitted to borrow locally from all sources up to P 500,000; borrowing in excess of that amount may be approved by the central bank, pro- vided that the resulting debt-equity ratio does not exceed 4:1. Borrowed funds may be used for work- ing capital purposes or for acquisition of new fixed assets (e.g., plant, machinery, equipment, and build- ings); these funds may not be used to acquire finan- cial assets. Equity is defined as paid-up capital, reserves, and retained earnings. The 4:1 limit may be exceeded by nonresident-controlled manufactur- ing companies, if there is evidence that the project will provide a specialist skill to Botswana or will create significant employment. Any external bor- rowing by a local business must have at least a three-month grace period. Permanent residents are eligible for an emigra- tion allowance of up to P 150,000 in addition to household and personal effects whose value does not exceed P 75,000. Applications for remittances in excess of these amounts are dealt with by the cen- tral bank. Such remittances are normally authorized if the amount is not too large; if the amount is exces- sive, remittances may be permitted in installments over three years. Nonresident-controlled companies are allowed to invest domestically generated funds in pula as well as those from external sources in any securities issued by the central bank. Departing temporary residents are entitled to a basic remittable terminal allowance of up to P 25,000. Double taxation agreements exist between Botswana and South Africa, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement November 17. Botswana accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Arti- cles of Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of February 29,1996) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Brazil is the Real (R$), the exter- nal value of which is determined by demand and supply in the interbank exchange market, although the Central Bank of Brazil has set an adjustable band for the external value of the real of R$0.97- R$1.06 per U.S. dollar as of January 30, 1996. The previous band of R$0.91-R$0.99 per U.S. dollar was established on June 22, 1995. Transactions in the exchange market are carried out by banks, brokers, and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies and brokers deal only in banknotes and traveler's checks. The exchange rates are freely negotiated between the authorized institutions and their clients in all opera- tions. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates in the interbank exchange market were R$0.973 and R$0.977, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the currencies con- cerned in the international market. A financial transactions tax (imposto sobre ope- raqoes de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operaqoes rela- tivas a titulos e valores mobiliarios (IOF)) of up to 25 percent is levied on exchange operations effected for the payment of imports of services. Limits for the short position of banks are deter- mined according to the size of the bank's total net assets indicated in the financial statements of June and December. No limit is imposed on the long posi- tion, but authorized banks must deposit overnight at the Central Bank the amounts needed to eliminate overbought positions that exceed the equivalent of US$5 million in the free exchange market. The limit for the long position in the exchange market of float- ing rates is fixed at US$1 million. The banks are per- mitted to buy and sell foreign exchange to each other without restriction; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis and must be settled within 2 working days for spot transactions or within 180 days for forward transactions. Banks may pay their clients a premium, corresponding to the expected variation of the domes- tic currency in relation to the currency subject of nego- tiation, by reason of forward operations. In addition, when an exchange contract for forward settlement is concluded, banks can provide short-term financing to exporters by providing domestic currency in advance, before or after the shipment of goods. The National Monetary Council is responsible for formulating overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the council, exchange controls regulations affecting for- eign capital, and the management of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Planning enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. The foreign trade policy is formulated by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism, imple- mented by the Secretariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX) and carried out by the Technical Department of Commercial Interchange (DTIC). The Technical Department of Tariffs (DTT) of the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism is respon- sible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The DTT also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The Ministry of Finance coordinates public sector import policy. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries are made in "agree- ment dollars" through the relevant agreement account. A bilateral account is maintained with Hungary, but settlements are made in third-country currencies every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela can be made through spe- cial central bank accounts within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements and no special payments arrangements are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered with the SECEX, and goods may be imported only by registered firms or persons. Imports are grouped into the following 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 BRAZIL three categories: (1) imports that do not require prior administrative documentation, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require an import certifi- cate issued by the DTIC; and (3) prohibited imports (agrochemical products not authorized under Bra- zilian regulations, and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, morality, or industrial policy). Importers are permitted to pur- chase foreign exchange in the exchange market within 180 days of the settlement date. There is also a limit on the direct importation and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the public sector (the Government, auton- omous agencies, and public enterprises).1 Most imports require prior approval from the DTIC, which is usually given promptly to regis- tered importers of nonprohibited items.2 The DTIC is authorized to levy a processing fee of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 60 days, except for imports of capital goods. The DTIC issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to special bonded warehouse importers. Import certif- icates for a number of specified imports may be obtained after the commodities have been landed but before they clear customs. The importation of certain products requires the approval of the Ministry of Science and Technology. For some products, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nacionais). Goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$600 imported into the Manaus free trade zone can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. The SECEX may approve applications for pay- ment for imports of any goods at terms of up to 720 days from the date of shipment without prior authorization from the Central Bank. External financing at terms in excess of 720 days for imports must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed at maturities over 1 Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the president, an annual investment program specifying their expected import requirements. 2 Selected imports are exempt from the prior approval require- ment, including imports to the free trade zone of Manaus, wheat and petroleum imports, imports under the drawback scheme, and imports of goods included in trade agreements negotiated with LAIA member countries. 360 days and accrued interest may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and a payment schedule issued by the Department of Foreign Capital (F1RCE) of the Central Bank. On January 11,1995, the time to settle anticipatory set- tlements for critical imports was set at 60 days. Exchange contracts may be settled within 180 days. The drafts, or letters of credit, relative to such contracts must be settled on maturity against the presentation of the appropriate documents by the importer. Official education and research institu- tions and the Ministry of Health may settle exchange contracts within 360 days following the same rules. Exchange contracts for imports financed under letters of credit must be closed on the date of settlement or two working days before the maturity date of the letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles not covered by cur- rent regulations require approval from the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DECAM) or the FIRCE; remittances are authorized freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evi- dence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. There is no limit on the purchase of foreign exchange for Brazilian residents traveling abroad. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestment and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law No. 4131 of September 1962. Remittances are allowed only when the for- eign capital concerned, including reinvestment, and the contracts for patents and trademarks and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance are registered with the FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. The private sector and both the financial and nonfinancial public sector are allowed access to foreign exchange for the purpose of servicing their debts, including those owed to nonresident banks. Profit remittances are exempt from withholding for income tax purposes according to the Law No. 9249 of December 26,1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 71 Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as well as for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance and the like, may be deducted from income tax liability to determine the taxable income, up to the limit of 5 percent of gross receipts in the first five years of the company's oper- ation; amounts exceeding this limit are considered profits. The percentages are the same as those estab- lished in Brazil's tax laws for determining the maxi- mum permissible deductions for such expenses. Outward transfers other than capital may be made directly through authorized banks upon pre- sentation by the remitters of the appropriate docu- mentation. Outward transfers not included in public regulations need prior authorization from the Central Bank. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to the financial trans- action tax of 25 percent. The financial transaction tax applicable to purchases of foreign exchange for payments of contracts involving transfers of tech- nology that are registered with the National Insti- tute of Industrial Property was reduced to zero in 1994. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign banknotes without restriction but must declare to customs any amount over US$10,000 or the equiva- lent in other currencies. Foreign tourists leaving Brazil may buy foreign currency up to 50 percent percent of the amount exchanged into domestic currency during the visit. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports requiring the prior approval of the SECEX include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by the SECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization from govern- ment agencies. Exports of hides of wild animals in any form are prohibited. This Integrated Foreign Trade System (Sistema Integrado de Comer do Exterior—SISCOMEX) intro- duced by Decree No. 660, dated September 25,1992, and implemented on January 4,1993, integrates the activities related to registration, monitoring, and control of foreign trade operations in a single com- puterized flow of information. The SISCOMEX comprises two subsystems; the exports subsystem eliminated, for more than 90 percent of Brazilian exports, all paperwork (forms, licenses, and certifi- cates), allowing exporters, carriers, banks, and bro- kers to register the various stages of an export process directly through the interlinked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the Central Bank. The import subsystem is being developed. On January 11, 1995, advances on foreign exchange contracts were reinstated for operations with terms exceeding 360 days. On January 11,1995, the time for anticipatory settlements was extended from 90 days to 180 days for exporters exporting more than US$10 million per year and from 150 days to 180 days for small exporters. For products considered essential for the supply of the domestic market (fuel, mineral oils, chemical products, plas- tics, wood pastes, paper, cotton, linen and synthetic thread, flat steel, and aluminum) the maximum period was extended from 30 days to 60 days; the period was extended to 180 days in November 1995. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold to the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers may freely bring in domestic and foreign currency notes but must declare to cus- toms any values over US$10,000 or the equivalent in other currencies. Capital Brazilian banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to Brazilian investors in MERCOSUR coun- tries in the exchange market. Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of Law No. 4131 on foreign investment, require prior approval from the Central Bank. Prior approval from the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds orig- inate from official financial institutions abroad; when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the national Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit insti- tution; and for other foreign borrowing by the public sector. In addition, prior approval from the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private sector when the funds originate abroad. Proceeds of foreign borrowing converted into domestic currency are subject to a financial transaction tax with rates that range from 5 percent for loans with maturities under three years to zero percent for loans with maturities over six years. Otherwise, inward transfers are unre- stricted and free of control, although subsequent use of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domes- tic assets may be restricted. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. Portfolio investment by foreign inves- tors in fixed-income instruments is restricted to two classes of fixed-income funds: the Fixed-Income ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BRAZIL Funds that are subject to a transaction tax of 7 percent and the Privatization Funds that are sub- ject to a transaction tax of 5 percent. For the pur- poses of the repatriation and remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with the FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose afe (1) goods, machinery, and equipment used to produce goods or render services that have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange; and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in eco- nomic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm residing or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Bra- zilian securities is classified, for purposes of regis- tration, as direct investment or loan and includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as the foreign capital that con- stitutes part of the corporate capital and partici- pates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is considered to be a loan, except portfolio investments. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad is con- sidered import financing, whether financed by the manufacturer (suppliers' credit) or by a third party. Foreign investments in the Brazilian capital mar- ket may be made through one of the five alterna- tives established under National Monetary Council Resolution 1289, Annexes I-V, dated March 20, 1987. Annex I is for investment companies that are open to natural persons and companies, and resi- dents domiciled or headquartered abroad. Such companies take the form of authorized capital cor- porations whose objective is to invest in diversified securities portfolios. They are managed by invest- ment banks, brokerage firms, or securities and exchange dealers. Through Annex II, or investment funds, natural persons and companies, and resi- dents domiciled or headquartered abroad, as well as funds or other foreign collective investment enti- ties, can invest in a securities portfolio established as an open fund without legal representation. Annex III is for diversified stock portfolios man- aged by an investment bank, a brokerage firm, or a securities and exchange dealer, headquartered in Brazil and owned jointly with a foreign institution. Annex IV is for funds and other collective invest- ment entities established abroad including pension funds, portfolios belonging to financial institutions and insurance companies, and mutual investment funds that may acquire portfolios of bonds and other securities in Brazil once the constitutions and administrations of these entities have been approved by the Central Bank and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Through Annex V, or depository receipts, it is possible to purchase abroad certificates representing stocks of a domestic public company (open capital). These papers repre- sent the securitizations of the stocks of an issuing company. Portfolio investment in fixed-income instruments may be made through the purchase of quotas of the Investment Fund, Foreign Capital. Portfolio investments are exempt from the capital gains tax, but earning resulting from variable income assets are subject to a 10 percent income tax and earning resulting from fixed-income assets are subject to a 15 percent income tax. Invested capital may be repatriated freely. The issuance of deben- tures that can be converted into stocks in domestic enterprises is permitted: Externally financed non- profit organizations are permitted to undertake debt-for-nature swaps. Investments made in the form of goods are sub- ject to approval and registration at the Central Bank and SECEX. To register loans made in a foreign cur- rency, the interest rate must correspond to that pre- vailing in the loan's original market; the amortization schedule must not be disproportion- ately heavy in the early stages of repayment. Reinvestment is defined as the profits of compa- nies established in Brazil and accruing to persons or companies residing abroad when they have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simul- taneously in Brazilian currency and the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the aver- age exchange rate prevailing on the date the profits are reinvested. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63 (as amended), private, commercial, invest- ment, and development banks and the Banco Nacio- nal de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending in order to finance working capital. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obli- gations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. Financial and nonfinancial institutions are authorized to obtain resources from abroad by issuing commercial papers, notes, and bonds, including securities, that can be converted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 73 into stocks. Brazilian banks located abroad are allowed to issue medium- and long-term certificates of deposit, and exporters are allowed to issue medium-term debt instruments secured with fu ture export receipts. Financial institutions of the National System of Rural Credit are allowed to contract for- eign resources with a minimum maturity of 180 days for the financing in the agricultural sector (Resolution No. 2148). Financial institutions are allowed to contract resources with a minimum maturity of 720 days for the financing of the con- struction and acquisition of new real estate ventures (Resolution No. 2170), all other financial loans in foreign currency are governed by the general provi- sions of Law No. 4131 on foreign investment. Loans contracted under this law also require prior authori- zation from the Central Bank, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans contracted under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131 must have a minimum term of 36 months, except for relending operations to the agricultural sector, which may have a mini- mum term of 6 months. Exemptions to amount and maturity requirements are established in Resolu- tions Nos. 2148 and 2170, as mentioned above. There are requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstanding to rise only to the extent that the servic- ing commitments on Brazil's total external indebted- ness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Monetary Council. However, provided that the fu ll amount of the foreign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the minimum specified maturity, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made on terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequently be relent to the same or to a second borrower. Remittances of proceeds from sales of property and inheritance are permitted Gold There are two separate markets for gold transac- tions: the financial market, where over 50 percent of transactions occur and which is regulated by the Central Bank; and commercial markets. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold on the financial market is subject to a 1 percent financial transactions tax. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined separately by the federal states, which also establish d ifferent rates for the commercial tax levied on them. The Central Bank and authorized institutions are empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic and international markets (Law No. 4595 of December 31,1964, and Law No. 7766 of May 11, 1989). Purchases of gold are made at current domes- tic and international prices; the international price is considered a target price. Imports of gold are sub- ject to the issuance of an import certificate by the SECEX. Exports of gold are subject to the same pro- cedures as those that are applied through the SECEX in respect of other products. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 6. A new exchange rate system based on bands was introduced. The band was set at R$0.86- R$0.90 per U.S. dollar until May 2, when it would be changed to R$0.86-R$0.98 per U.S. dollar. March 10. The exchange rate band was changed to R$0.88-R$0.93 per U.S. dollar for an undetermined period of time. The Central Bank specified that it would intervene in the foreign exchange market using electronic auctions. June 22. The exchange rate band was changed to R$0.91-R$0.99 per U.S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments April 20. The anticipated payment for imports was limited to 20 percent of the value of the mer- chandise, except in some specific cases (Circular No. 2561). Exports and Export Proceeds January 11. The reserve requirement of 15 percent on Advances for Export Contracts (ACC) was elimi- nated (Circular No. 2534). January 11. The anticipated payment for export operations was reinstated with a minimum term of 360 days (Circular No. 2538). January 11. The maximum period for ACCs was lengthened from 90 days to 180 days for large exporters and from 150 days to 180 days for small exporters (Circular No. 2539). For products consid- ered essential to internal supply, the maximum period was increased from 30 days to 60 days. April 27. Anticipated payments for exports by for- eign individuals, corporations, or financial institu- tions were authorized. November 22. The period for the contracting of foreign exchange prior to shipment of merchandise considered essential for domestic supply was increased from 60 days to 180 days (Circular No. 2639). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 BRAZIL December 20. Exports of goods and services may be financed with the resources of the Export Financ- ing Program (PROEX) through a discount of export credit securities and if there is a financing contract between the Brazilian government and foreign pub- lic sector entities (Resolution No. 2224). The chan- neling of PROEX resources into establishing of any credit lines for foreign public or private entities was prohibited. Capital March 9. The minimum period for the renewal and extension of foreign credit operations through floating rate notes, fixed rate notes, floating rate certificates of deposits, fixed rate certificates of deposits, private and public bonds, notes, and com- mercial paper was lowered from 36 months to 6 months (Circulars Nos. 2547 and 2559, and Carta- Circular No. 2533). March 9. The limits of the long position of banks and dealers in the fluctuating foreign exchange market were lowered from US$10 million to US$1 million, and from US$1 million to US$0.5 million, respectively (Circular No. 2548). The long position of banks in the commercial foreign exchange mar- ket was lowered from US$50 million to US$5 mil- lion (Circular No. 2549). March 9. The IOF was reduced from 7 percent to zero percent on foreign loans, from 9 percent to 5 percent on investments in fixed-income funds, and from 1 percent to zero percent on investment in stocks (Portaria No. 95 of the Ministry of Finance). March 9. The minimum average term for contract- ing financial loans was lowered from 36 months to 24 months (Circular No. 2546). March 9. The minimum term for relending opera- tions related to Resolution No. 63 was lowered from 540 days to 90 days (Circular No. 2545). March 9. The permission granted for anticipated payment of financial loans and import financing was revoked (Resolution No. 2147). March 16. Financial institutions of the National System of Rural Credit were allowed to contract for- eign resources with a minimum maturity of 180 days for the financing of investment, marketing, and other expenses in the agricultural sector (Reso- lutions Nos. 2148 and 2151). The resources were exempted from the minimum period of three years for credit operations and fixed at 180 days, and from the financial taxation of 5 percent. April 27. The limits on the short position of banks in the fluctuating and commercial foreign exchange markets were increased by 50 percent (Circulars Nos. 2565 and 2566). June 30. Financial institutions were allowed to contract resources with a minimum maturity of 720 days for the financing of the construction and acquisition of new real estate ventures (Resolution No. 2170). August 11. The tax on financial transactions (IOF) for interbank operations in the floating foreign exchange markets among financial institutions abroad and in Brazil was extended (Decree No. 1591). The IOF rate for these operations was set at 7 percent, and the IOF rates were raised for finan- cial loans from zero to 5 percent, and for investments in fixed income funds, from 5 percent to 7 percent (Directive No. 202 of the Ministry of Finance). August 11. Foreign investors were prohibited from channeling resources into operations in the futures and option markets. August 15. The IOF rate for foreign resources for the agricultural sector was set at zero. September 15. Differentiated IOF rates for financial loans with different maturities were established (Directive No. 228 of the Ministry of Finance). September 28. The conversion of federal public sector entities' foreign debt into investments, in the framework of the National Privatization Program, was regulated. The initial discount of 25 percent was reduced to zero (Resolution No. 2203 and Cir- cular No. 2623). October 12. Resources originating from the liqui- dation of ACCs must be used to pay the credit lines provided by foreign financial institutions for such purposes to financial institutions in Brazil that came under bankruptcy, extrajudicial liquidation, or intervention (Provisional Measure No. 1113). Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 30. The exchange rate band was set at R$0.97-R$1.06perUS$l. Capital January 1. Profits and dividends remitted abroad were exempted from income tax, while the tax rate applied to profits on direct investments were reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent. The maxi- mum rate applicable to interests remitted abroad was also reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent. Profits from investments listed in Annexes I to IV of the Resolution No. 1289/87 were subject to a 10 per- cent income tax if they originated in variable income assets and to a 15 percent tax if they origi- nated in fixed-income assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 75 February 8. The resources obtained abroad under the terms of Resolution No. 63 may be invested in interbank on-lending operations and leasing opera- tions, and in acquiring credit rights tied to exchange rate floating (Circular No. 2660). February 8. The minimum average term for con- tracting, renewing, or extending foreign loans was increased from 24 months to 36 months, except for loans under the Resolution No. 2148 (Rural Credit System, minimum of 180 days), the Resolution No. 2170 (Real Estate, minimum of 720 days), and for loans carried out by financial institutions under the Special Temporary Administration (RAET, min- imum of 24 months) (Circular No. 2661). February 8. The IOF rate for foreign investments in Privatization Funds was extended (Decree No. 1815). The IOF rate for these investments was set at 5 percent (Directive No. 28). February 8. The IOF rate for foreign investments in Real Estate Investment Funds and Mutual Invest- ment Funds in Emergent Enterprises, over sale, redemption, or transferring value, for applications in quotas of the fund, was set at 10 percent when the fund has not been constituted or has not begun to work regularly, 5 percent when the fund has been constituted and is working regularly, and up to one year af ter its constitution, and zero after one year of the fund's constitution (Decree No. 1814). February 8. Foreign investors cited in Appendices I-IV to Resolution No. 1289 were prohibited from acquiring Agrarian Debt Securities (TDAO), National Development Fund Obligations (OFND), and debentures issued by Siderurgia Brasileira S.A. (SIDERBRAS) (Resolution No. 2246). February 8. Foreign investors were allowed to buy quotas of Real Estate Investment Funds, constituted with authorization from the Securities and Exchange Commission—CVM (Resolution No. 2248). February 8. Foreign investors were allowed to buy quotas of Mutual Investment Funds in Emergent Enterprises constituted with authorization from the Securities and Exchange Commission—CVM (Res- olution No. 2247). March 1. The resources obtained abroad under the terms of Resolution No. 63 may be invested in national currency deposits in the Central Bank, without remuneration (Circular No. 2670). April 18. The operations carried out by the states, Federal District, the municipalities, and their respective semi-autonomous agencies were restricted according to several criteria (Resolution No. 2271). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM1 (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brunei Darussalam is the Brunei Dollar (Ringgit in Malaysia). It is issued by the Bru- nei Currency Board, only against payment in Sin- gapore dollars and at par. Under the terms of a 1967 Currency Interchangeability Agreement between the Brunei Currency Board and the Board of Commis- sioners of Currency of Singapore, the Singapore dol- lar is customary tender in Brunei Darussalam and the Brunei dollar is customary tender in Singapore. The Brunei Currency Board and Board of Commis- sioners of Currency of Singapore have undertaken to accept each other's currency and exchange it, at par and without charge, into their own, and have instructed their banks to do the same with their cus- tomers. Any excess in currency is regularly repatri- ated with the issuing institution bearing the costs, and settlements are made in the other country's cur- rency. The Brunei Currency Board only deals in Sin- gapore dollars and does not quote rates for other currencies. Banks, however, are free to deal in all currencies, with no restrictions on amount, maturity, or type of transaction. The Brunei Association of Banks fixes daily buy- ing and selling rates for telegraphic transfers and sight drafts in terms of 17 other currencies on the basis of these currencies' interbank quotations in relation to the Singapore dollar.2 Banks in Brunei Darussalam must apply these rates for transactions with the general public in amounts up to B$l00,000. Exchange rates for amounts exceeding B$l 00,000 are set competitively by each bank on the basis of the current interbank quotations for the Singapore dol- lar in the Singapore market. There is no forward market for foreign exchange in Brunei Darussalam. However, as a result of the Currency Interchangeability Agreement with Sin- gapore, foreign exchange risk can be hedged in terms of Singapore dollars by resorting to facilities available in that country, including foreign currency futures and options traded on the Singapore Interna- tional Monetary Exchange (SIMEX), over-the- counter forward transactions arranged by banks in Singapore, and short-term foreign exchange swap market operated among the banks in the Singapore money market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Brunei Darussalam accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on October 10,1995. Administration of Control There are no formal exchange controls, but under the 1956 Exchange Control Act (as amended most recently in 1984), the Ministry of Finance retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Ministry of Finance also licenses and supervises commercial banks, including foreign-owned banks incorporated in Brunei Darussalam and branches of foreign banks operating in Brunei Darussalam. The Economic Development Board in the Ministry of Finance is responsible for elaborating and admin- istering programs to encourage foreign investment. It may issue certificates granting tax relief for certain approved projects and may enter into joint-venture agreements with foreign investors. It may also pur- chase, hold, and lease land for industrial purposes. A one-stop agency in the Ministry of Industry and Primary Resources facilitates inward investment. The Registrar of Companies controls the functioning within Brunei Darussalam of enterprises incorpo- rated locally or registered as the branch of a foreign limited company. The Tourism Promotion Commit- tee in the Ministry of Industry and Primary Resources works to encourage tourism. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements with residents of Singapore and the Eastern Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak are normally effected in the currencies of the coun- tries involved or in third currencies, as agreed between the parties concerned. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Brunei Darussalam became a member of the IMF on October 10,1995. 2The currencies are the Aus t ra l ian dollar, Canadian dollar, deutsche ma rk, French franc, Hong Kong dollar, Indian rupee, In- donesian rup iah, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Ne ther lands guilder, New Zealand dollar, Philippine peso, pound sterling, Saudi r iya l, Swiss franc, Thai baht, and the U.S. dollar. There is no distinction between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Brunei Darussalam, and accounts may be maintained in both domestic and foreign currencies. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 77 Imports and Import Payments There are no restrictions on the origin of imports. A few imports are banned or restricted for nature conservation, health, safety, security, or religious reasons. Restricted items may be imported only with the permission of the relevant ministry. Except for cigarettes and alcoholic beverages, all imports are subject to ad valorem tariff rates ranging from zero to 200 percent. Some 70 percent of items (including basic foodstuffs, and construction and educational materials) are zero rated. Rates of 5 percent, 15 per- cent, and 20 percent apply to most other items. Fire- works are subject to a 30 percent duty while automobiles are subject to duties of 40 percent to 200 percent, depending on engine size. Brunei Darus- salam is a party to the Agreement on the Common Effective Preferential Tariff (CEPT) Scheme for the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA). The CEPT Scheme came into operation in Brunei Darussalam on June 1, 1994, and under its terms, Brunei Darussalam will lower its tariff rates on imports from other ASEAN countries to zero by 2003, with the exception of about 120 tariff lines that are permanently excluded under the terms of the CEPT Scheme. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange that may be used for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely, but interest payments to nonresidents are subject to a 20 percent withholding tax. Interest on loans exceeding B$200,000 that are used for the purchase of productive equipment (so- called approved foreign loans) may be exempt from the tax, subject to submission of the loan documen- tation. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Brunei banknotes. Export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be repatriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes and coins, including Brunei gold coins. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. Nonresidents are free to repatriate capital or profits or to borrow from banks in Brunei Darussalam. Banks may accept deposits and make loans in foreign currency. There are no sectoral restrictions on inward for- eign direct investment. Activities relating to national food security and those based on local resources require some degree of local participation. Indus- tries producing for the local market that are not related to national food security and industries that solely export may be fully foreign owned. Joint ven- tures are particularly encouraged in export-oriented industries and activities supporting such industries. At least one-half of the directors of a company must be either Brunei citizens or residents of Brunei Darussalam. The Industrial Incentives Act provides exemption from income tax and import duties to companies granted pioneer status, as well as established com- panies planning expansion. There is a double taxa- tion agreement with the United Kingdom. Under the terms of the agreement, tax credits are available only for resident companies.3 Only Brunei citizens are allowed to own land. However, foreign investors may lease land on a long-term basis, including on-sites set aside for industry, agriculture, agroforestry, and aquaculture. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold There are no restrictions on the destination of exports. Certain exports originating in Brunei Darussalam —for example, textiles and textile prod- ucts —are subject to quantitative restrictions and other nontariff barriers in the importing countries, particularly Canada, Norway, the United States, and the members of the European Union. The Muara Export Zone, a free trade area, serves as an entry point for goods destined for the East ASEAN Growth Area (EAGA). Export licenses are required for alcoholic bever- ages, cigarettes, diesel, gasoline, kerosene, rice, salt, and sugar. There are no export taxes. Only banks licensed to operate in Brunei Daruss- salam and gold dealers and jewelers specifically authorized by the Ministry of Finance may buy and sell gold bars. Gold bars are not subject to import duty, but a 10 percent import duty is levied on the importation of gold jewelry. 3A company, whether incorporated in Brunei Darussalam or overseas, is considered a resident of Brunei Darussalam for tax purposes if the control and management of its activities are exer- cised in Brunei Darussalam. This is, inter alia, considered to be the case if its directors' meetings are held in Brunei Darussalam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA (Position as of December 33 ,1995) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Bulgaria is the Lev (plural Leva). The Bulgarian National Bank quotes daily the exchange rate of the lev in terms of the U.S. dollar based on the weighted average of transactions in the interbank exchange market during the previous trading day. This rate is called the central exchange rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are deter- mined by their cross rate relationships with the U.S. dollar in the international exchange market. On December 31,1995, the exchange rate quoted by the Bulgarian National Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar was leva 70.7 per $1. Exchange bureaus are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions in cash only. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Minis- try of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank. The Bulgarian National Bank is responsible for imple- menting the exchange rate policy. Twenty commer- cial banks, 2 branches of foreign banks, and 1 financial institution conduct foreign exchange trans- actions. Another 13 banks are authorized to open bank accounts for settlement of payments abroad. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Bul- garia maintains bilateral agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.1 Transactions generally are settled through clearing accounts. Balances in these accounts (annual and multiyear) generally are to be settled in goods during the six months after the agreement has been terminated; thereafter, they are settled in convertible currencies. ]At the end of 1995, Bulgaria maintained bilateral clearing and barter agreements with the Islamic State of Afghan is tan, Ban- gladesh, Cambodia, China, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, In- dia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Romania, Syria, and Tanzania. Bulgaria has outstanding transferable ruble ac- counts with Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and Russia. Only one intergovernmental arrangement with Ban- gladesh is still actively being used to settle trade. Residents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts in Bulgaria, which may be credited without restriction, and from which transfers abroad may be made with permission from the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank (pursuant to the provisions of Decree No. 15 of the Council of Minis- ters of 1991). Balances on these accounts earn inter- est at international market rates. Nonresidents may maintain accounts in foreign currencies and leva without authorization, limitation, or restriction for purposes of making transactions in Bulgaria. The crediting and debiting of foreign currency accounts are not subject to any regulations, and transfers abroad from these accounts are free of restriction. Imports and Exports Imports of some sensitive goods are subject to reg- istration at the Ministry of Trade. Imports of ice cream are subject to a quota; the removal of this quota is under consideration. Imports of certain goods are restricted for health and security reasons. Import tariff rates range from 5 percent to 55 per- cent. Tariffs are calculated on the transaction values (actual invoice price paid) in foreign currency and converted to leva. The import surcharge (which was 3 percent when introduced in August 1993, then reduced to 2 percent on January 1,1994, and then to 1 percent on January 1,1995) was eliminated at the end of 1995. The surcharge was waived for the importation of certain energy products, pharmaceu- ticals, and facilities for environmental protection. Under Government Decree No. 241 (January 1, 1994), certain goods in these categories are exempt from customs duty or are subject to ceilings for duty- free imports or reduced-duty imports. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within one month but do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Under Government Decree No. 241, export taxes are levied on certain types of timber, hides, wool, sunflower oil, grain, and some copper products. The export tax is quoted in U.S. dollars but paid in leva. Exports and imports of tobacco products, coal, petroleum, livestock and meat, dairy products, certain grains, textiles, ferrous metals and alloys, and imports of flat glass are required to be registered. The only export quotas still in place relate to certain wheat exports and 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 79 metal scrap. Wheat quotas were introduced in 1994 in conjunction with a narrowing of the coverage of the temporary export bans, which currently include only certain types of grains and metal scrap. Special licenses are required for transactions under barter and clearing arrangements, for exports proceeds to be received in leva; exports under gov- ernment credits and exports subject to quotas and voluntary export restraint agreements; imports and exports of military hardware and related technolo- gies; endangered flora and fauna; radioactive and hazardous materials; crafts and antiques; pharma- ceuticals; herbicides; pesticides; flour; unbottled alcohol; intellectual property; jewelry; and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted within two working days. Exports of ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal, female livestock, and grains were prohibited until the end of 1994. The exporta- tion of goods received as humanitarian aid and of human blood and plasma is prohibited. Bulgaria has resumed its efforts to accede to the World Trade Organization (WTO) (it applied for accession to the GATT in 1986). Toward ensuring compatibility of its trade regime with the require- ments of WTO and its member countries, Bulgaria has taken measures that include the passage of legis- lation on intellectual property and the granting of tariff concessions. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are granted without restriction. Allowances for tour- ist travel and certain other invisible payments are limited to the leva equivalent of up to $2,000 a per- son a year for people without foreign currency deposits. Resident holders of foreign exchange deposits may use balances on these deposit accounts without restriction. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange freely to resident individuals or resident legal persons if proper documentation certifies that foreign exchange is needed for (1) authorized imports of goods and ser- vices; (2) transportation and other expenses related to the conveyance of goods and passengers carried out by nonresidents; (3) interest and amortization with respect to credits approved by the Bulgarian National Bank; (4) business travel in compliance with the established procedures; (5) insurance fees; (6) bank- ing commissions; (7) education and training; (8) health care; (9) diplomatic, consular, and other government agencies of Bulgaria abroad; (10) com- mercial representative offices of Bulgarian traders abroad; (11) commissions, advertising fees, and other expenses related to economic activities (including fairs and exhibitions); (12) membership fees in inter- national organizations; and (13) participation in inter- national contests and festivals. Nonresidents may purchase foreign currency from Bulgarian commercial banks to transfer abroad (1) investment income received in leva; (2) compen- sation received following nationalization of invest- ment enterprises; (3) proceeds from liquidation of investment; (4) proceeds from sales of investment enterprises received in leva; and (5) amounts received in leva under judicial settlement of guaran- teed claims. Transfers abroad in compliance with the above cases may be effected upon presentation of documents that certify that outstanding liabilities have been paid. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers and remittances for family maintenance are not explicitly mentioned in Decree No. 15 (of February 8, 1991), which governs foreign exchange control, but they have been treated implicitly as transfers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports. The following transfers abroad require prior permission from the Bulgarian National Bank in consultation with the Ministry of Finance as stipu- lated by the Decree No. 15: (1) indirect investments; (2) official credits extended to and received from abroad; (3) investments abroad; and (4) free trans- fers in foreign currency when they are not connected with imports of goods and services. Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within one month but do not have to be surrendered and may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Residents and nonresidents may take out or bring in Bulgarian banknotes and coins up to leva 10,000; permission from the Bulgarian National Bank is required to import or export amounts exceeding this limit. Residents may take out foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of $1,000 without restriction. There is no limit on foreign currency notes nonresi- dents may bring into the country but the amount must be declared, and they may take out unspent foreign currency notes upon departure. Capital Licensed banks may borrow abroad without the authorization of the Bulgarian National Bank. The forex-licensed commercial banks, however, may bor- row abroad only if they do not request a guarantee from the Government of Bulgaria and if their bor- rowing complies with the prudential regulations set up by the Bulgarian National Bank. They may also extend foreign currency and lev loans to residents and nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 BULGARIA Foreign direct investments in Bulgaria are gov- erned by the Law on the Economic Activity of For- eign Persons and Protection of Foreign Investments (State Gazette No. 8/1992). Foreign direct invest- ments must be registered with the Ministry of Finance and require authorization only if they are undertaken in sectors that are considered sensitive. Foreign direct investments are guaranteed against expropriation, except for nationalization through legal process. Foreign firms are granted the same status as domestic firms; they may, under certain conditions, benefit from preferential treatment, including reduced taxation and access to judicial appeal outside the system of state arbitration. In general, fully owned foreign firms are subject to a profit tax of 40 percent, and joint ventures are subject to a profit tax of 30 percent; all other firms with for- eign participation are subject to the same profit tax as domestic firms (40 percent). Repatriation of liqui- dated capital and after-tax profits is not restricted, and transfers of profits in domestic currency do not require a special authorization. Gold The Ministry of Finance controls the acquisition, possession, processing, and disposal of gold, silver, and platinum. The Bulgarian National Bank is the only institution entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold for monetary and nonmone- tary purposes. All domestic transactions for indus- trial purposes must be conducted at current prices through the Bulgarian National Bank. Commercial banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (on their own or on their customers' behalf) in precious metals, with the exception that the Bulgarian For- eign Trade Bank is licensed to deal in precious met- als. Resident individuals may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold and jewelry products that they may import is limited. Nonresi- dents are permitted to bring in and take out their jewelry but may not trade. Nonresidents must have permission from the Ministry of Finance, the Bulgar- ian National Bank, and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to buy gold, silver, and platinum products. Changes During 1995 Imports and Exports January 1. The import surcharge was reduced from 2 percent to 1 percent. The exportation of the follow- ing products was banned: goods received as human- itarian aid, blood products, natural mud for medical purposes, and unmanufactured and nonfermented tobacco. Temporary export bans on the following products were established: barley for the brewing industry (until October 30,1995); maize (until Octo- ber 30, 1995); ferrous waste and scrap; nonferrous waste and scrap; ingots and billets of copper; potas- sium iodate, potassium iodide, and iodized salt. December 1. The import surcharge was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA Franc,1 the external value of which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF100 per F l. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a com- mission of 2.5 per mil on transfers to all countries outside the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange.3 In the official and commercial banking sectors, forward exchange cover may be arranged only by residents for settlements with respect to imports of goods on certain lists. All contracts for forward exchange cover must be denominated in the cur- rency of payment stipulated in the contract and are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Nonrenewable forward exchange contracts may be concluded for one month. For certain prod- ucts, the maturity period of forward exchange cover may be renewed once for three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold, the repatriation of export proceeds, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of securities and cap- ital assets, and the soliciting of funds for invest- ments abroad, exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territo- ries) and Monaco; and (2) all countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Central Afri- can Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). All payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Burkina Faso accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1,1996. ]The CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Bu rk ina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Banks are free to determine and collect a commission on trans- fers between member countries of the WAEMU. 3Banks may levy a commission of 2 percent on the exchange of CFAF banknotes for French f ranc notes. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, and the opening of external accounts in for- eign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to its authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, or judicial agents, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-Gen- eral of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Mines. Import certificates for liber- alized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter. Settlements with a country outside the Operations Account area must be formally approved by the customs administration. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Burkina Faso is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currencies of Operations Account countries. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone are settled through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts.4 Settlements w i th all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France or the country concerned in the currencies of those coun- tries, or through foreign accounts in francs in French francs or other currencies of the Operations Account area. 4A b i la teral agreement ma in ta ined w i th Ghana is inoperative. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 Nonresident Accounts BURKINA FASO The crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is pro- hibited. These accounts may not be overdrawn with- out prior authorization. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from other countries for commercial purposes under any customs regulations may be made freely; prior acqui- sition of an official import document is necessary for imports exceeding a value of CFAF 250,000. A special import license (authorization speciale d'importation) is required for imports of sugar, rice, explosives, arms, munitions, and military equipment. A technical import visa (certificat de conformite) is required for the following products: sugar, selected pharmaceutical products (tables R06, R6, R20), insec- ticides, printed fabric and bleached and tinted threads, wheat and cereal flour, tomato paste, tires and inner tubes for motorcycles, and mats and bags of polyethylene and polypropylene. Imports of cer- tain other products, a list of which is established by decree, may be exempted from the import document requirement. The Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Mines may, on the basis of criteria established by the Ministry, waive the prescribed formalities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade area agree- ment. Imports, with a few exceptions, are subject to customs duties of 5 percent; the rates on cereals range from 4 percent to 26 percent, plus a statistical tax of 4 percent. All imports from outside the Economic Commu- nity of West African States (ECOWAS) are subject to a solidarity communal levy of 1 percent, and imports of certain goods that are also locally pro- duced are subject to a protection tax ranging from 10 percent to 30 percent. Imports of the following products are prohibited: oil-carrying tank trucks, used coaches and buses, moped inner tubes, bicycle tires and inner tubes, wheat flour from countries other than those of the West African Economic Community (WAEC), ivory, and fishing nets with a mesh not greater than 3 square centimeters. All import transactions with a value of more than CFAF 500,000 that are effected with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses or prior import authorizations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened, on the due date for pay- ment if the commodities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account if such a payment must be made before importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other coun- tries are subject to exchange control approval, which, for many invisibles has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. Authorized intermediary banks and the Postal Administration are empowered to make payments of up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer to foreign countries on behalf of residents without requiring justification. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFAF banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the f ranc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or d ifferen t ia t ion by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day within the limit of one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be cumulated with tourist allowances); (3) allow- ances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident f inanc ial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the respective ministries of finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and busi- ness travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surren- der within eight days all means of payment exceed- ing the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, when traveling to countries that are not members of the WAEMU, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident trav- elers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 83 nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that such means of payment had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA f rancs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment regis- tered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Burkina Faso may be made freely. However, for the purpose of monitor- ing, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization from the relevant services of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Mines, except in the case of certain goods, a list of which is established by decree. In accordance with criteria defined by the Minister of Industry, Com- merce, and Mines, exports of ivory are subject to special regulations (authorization speciale d'exporta- tion). Exports to Ghana are also subject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipulated in the commercial contract must not, in principle, be more than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination). All export transactions of more than CFAF 500,000 relat- ing to foreign countries, including countries in the Operations Account area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit an export attesta- tion form. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical du ty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the Operations Account area. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of pay- ment in excess of CFAF 25,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days of their return. Capital Capital movements between Burkina Faso and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Burkina Faso. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Burkinabe Government; and (2) shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Burkina Faso has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAEMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are also maintained over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign firms, institutions, and private individuals, as well as over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad. These special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated pay- ments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Burkina Faso require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance5 and, unless the Minister specifically exempts them, 75 percent of such investments must be financed f rom borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Burkina Faso6 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons residing in Burkina Faso and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies having their headquarters in Burk ina Faso. Including those made by companies operating in Burkina Faso that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Burkina Faso of foreign com- panies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 BURKINA FASO Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration to request postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquida- tion of investments, whether Burkinabe invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Burkina Faso, must be reported to the Minister of Finance. Direct investments constitute investments imply- ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere partic- ipation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Burkina Faso in vital or priority sectors are required to have Burkinabe participation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sec- tors. The sale to residents of Burkina Faso of securi- ties of foreign companies operating in Burkina Faso requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents also requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Burkina Faso, or by international trading houses approved by the Minister of Finance to finance international merchant transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of these loans outstanding —including the new borrowing— does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one bor- rower, the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate, and the proceeds are immedi- ately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a foreign account in francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself is subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan is exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is sub- ject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treat- ment for foreign investment in Burkina Faso, except for enterprises whose capital stock belongs entirely to foreigners. Three preferential categories (A, B, and C) are established, in accordance with which special guarantees and tax and customs incentives may be granted for up to eight years to any enterprise that undertakes to create or considerably expand activi- ties likely to contribute to the country's economic and social development. Enterprises that the Gov- ernment deems to be of a priority nature may also be given privileged treatment. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Burkina Faso. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a com- bined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The Comptoir burkinabe des metaux precieux has a monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Burkina Faso accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, the external value of which is pegged to a basket of cur- rencies that reflects the pattern of Burundi's interna- tional trade. On December 31, 1995, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were FBu 275.94 and FBu 279.9, respectively, per $1. Exchange rates for 18 currencies1 and for 2 units of account, European currency units (ECUs) and units of account of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, the central bank, on the basis of the Burundi franc-U.S. dollar rate and the transac- tion value of these currencies and units in terms of the U.S. dollar. Commercial banks are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange on their own account and on behalf of their customers at rates within max- imum margins of 1 percent on either side of the mid- dle rate established by the Bank of Burundi. Commercial banks are allowed to borrow foreign exchange to hedge against exchange rate risks. Exporters of coffee are also allowed to borrow for- eign exchange through their banks or from their cus- tomers for purposes of crop financing and hedging against exchange risks. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of Burundi. Authority to carry out some transactions is dele- gated to six authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agree- ments between these countries are effected through SDR accounts maintained with the Bank of Burundi and authorized banks of each signatory country. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any convert- ible currency. Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident (Foreign Currency Convertible Burundi Franc) Accounts Accounts in convertible Burundi francs may be maintained by (1) natural persons of foreign national- ity (such as staff of diplomatic missions) who are tem- porarily established in Burundi, (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status (such as dip- lomatic missions and international organizations), and (3) any other natural or juridical persons autho- rized by the Bank of Burundi. These accounts may be credited freely with any convertible currency, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs or for conversion into foreign exchange. Up to FBu 20,000 in foreign currency may be withdrawn in banknotes upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket) for an unlimited number of trips. Withdrawals of bank- notes in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Burundi. These accounts may bear interest freely and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents whose main activities are outside of Burundi may maintain accounts in for- eign currencies with an authorized bank. These accounts may be maintained by (1) natural and juridical persons of foreign nationality who reside abroad, (2) enterprises authorized to operate in the free trade zone, (3) exporters of nontraditional prod- ucts who are authorized to retain 30 percent of their export proceeds, (4) Burundi nationals resident abroad, and (5) any other na tural or juridical per- sons authorized by the Bank of Burundi. These accounts may be credited freely with any convertible currency received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs for payments in Burundi; and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods, except for bank- notes. These accounts must not be overdrawn; how- ever, they may bear interest freely. The related bank charges and commissions must be settled in foreign exchange; and (3) as in the case of accounts in con- vertible Burundi francs, up to FBu 20,000 may be w i thdrawn in banknotes upon presentation of travel documents. Withdrawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Burundi. If no deposits are made to the foreign account within three months of its opening, the account must be closed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 BURUNDI Imports and Import Payments Imports are fully liberalized, except for a limited number of goods the importation of which is restricted mainly for health or security reasons. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceed- ing FBu 1 million in value (f.o.b.) may be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality and price by an international supervising and oversight organization on behalf of the Burundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available either at the time the goods are shipped, on the basis of the shipping documents, or after the goods are imported. All imports are subject to a service tax of 4 percent ad valorem in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer abroad up to 70 percent of their net annual income (80 percent in the case of foreign nationals working for companies that export at least 50 percent of their production). Private joint-stock companies may freely and imme- diately transfer 100 percent of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors after payment of taxes. Airlines are authorized to transfer abroad 100 percent of their earnings a f ter deduction of local expenses. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are authp- rized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of rental income is permitted (after payment of taxes and a deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses). Residents may apply for foreign exchange needed for foreign travel. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel is $200 a person a day or its equivalent ($250 for exporters), subject to a maximum limit of 15 days a trip; there is no limit on the number of trips a person may make. Limits on foreign exchange allowances for business or other travel may be exceeded on a bona fide basis. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are free. Export proceeds must be col- lected within 30 days of the date of export declara- tion at customs for shipment by air or within 90 days for all other shipments. Exporters operating in the free trade area are not required to surrender their export proceeds to an authorized bank. Deadlines for the collection of proceeds from exports of nontra- ditional products are set by individual banks. All proceeds from traditional exports must be surren- dered to an authorized bank. Exporters of nontradi- tional products may retain up to 30 percent of proceeds. Exports of mineral products, coffee, and hides are subject to export duties as are exports of all goods that do not qualify for export promotion. Duties paid on raw materials at the time of importa- tion may be refunded, provided that the manufac- tured products are exported and the proceeds collected. In the case of fully paid exports of nontra- ditional primary products, the refund will cover 10 percent of the value of such payments. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the cen- tral bank and traveler's checks, as well as a maxi- mum of FBu 5,000 in Burundi banknotes. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling con- vertible currencies or by using a credit card. Pay- ment in Burundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or indi- vidual has assumed responsibility with prior autho- rization from the Bank of Burundi and in the case of nationals of Rwanda and Zaire who produce decla- rations of means of payment issued under the aus- pices of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). Capital Under the Investment Code introduced on January 14, 1987, new investments that fulfill speci- fied conditions as to amount and economic impor- tance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equip- ment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of five years, for other merchandise needed for the manufacturing process or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or sus- pended for up to eight years. Enterprises accorded priority status may be granted a reduction or sus- pension of export taxes and import taxes on equip- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 87 ment and raw materials for renewable periods of five years. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic develop- ment may be granted, under a separate agreement, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for ten years. An investment commis- sion under the Ministry of Development Planning and Reconstruction is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the neces- sary authorization. In addition, Burundi guarantees each foreign investor the right to move into the coun- try; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materi- als abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents and transfers of for- eign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted require individual authorization. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises to provide working capital in foreign exchange; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the central bank. The retransfer may take place as soon as the funds to be transferred are available and with no time limitation. The guar- antee provides for the transfer of the amount received from abroad. The repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the busi- ness is also guaranteed. Gold All natural or juridical persons holding gold min- ing permits issued by the ministers responsible for mining and customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burundi. Gold pro- duced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average daily rates communicated by the Bank of Burundi. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the mining and customs departments. Changes During 1995 Payments for Invisibles December 26. The limit on transfers of rental income was removed. December 28. Limits on foreign exchange allow- ances for travel abroad were liberalized. In addition, these limits may be exceeded in bona fide cases. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian Kiel. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the official rate and the market rate. Since September 1994, adjustments to the official exchange rate are made daily by the National Bank of Cambodia so as to limit the spread between the official and parallel market rates to less than 1 percent. The official exchange rate applies mainly to external transac- tions conducted by the Government and state- owned enterprises. On December 31, 1995, the offi- cial exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was CR 2526 per $1, and the market rate was CR 2560 per $1. The National Bank is responsible for quoting daily official rates, at which the Foreign Trade Bank of Cambodia and the Phnom Penh Municipal Bank (two state-owned commercial banks) buy and sell foreign exchange. Other commercial banks are free to buy and sell foreign exchange at their own rates. Exchange transactions take place at the rate prevail- ing in the market. Foreign exchange dealers are per- mitted to buy only banknotes and traveler's checks and are required by law to conduct their transactions at the official rate. In practice, however, these trans- actions take place at the market rate. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The exchange control regime is defined by the 1991 Law on the Management of Foreign Exchange, Precious Metals, and Stones. This law vests responsi- bility for the management of foreign exchange (as well as precious metals and stones) with the Minis- try of Economy and Finance and the National Bank. The National Bank is authorized to license commer- cial banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regulate current and capital transactions. State-owned enterprises must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and Finance to engage in export/import trade or in any other businesses generating foreign exchange and are required to repatriate foreign exchange earnings. Registered trading companies are not required to have a license to engage in foreign trade activities. New foreign exchange legislation that eliminates the foreign exchange restrictions contained in the 1991 law is expected to be presented to the National Assembly during 1996. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Cambodia does not maintain operative bilat- eral payments agreements. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts with commercial banks. Although there are no limits on the balances of these accounts, under the 1991 law, the funds may not be used to settle domestic obligations but must be converted into domestic currency. In practice, however, all transactions can be settled in foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Trade policy is formulated by the Ministry of Commerce in consultation with the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance. Imports undertaken by registered trading compa- nies require no license, and there are no quantitative restrictions on imports, although imports of certain products are subject to control or are prohibited for reasons of national security, health, environmental well-being, or public morality. Effective September 1, 1995, preshipment import inspection for certain goods is required to improve customs duty collection. The coverage of the requirements will be gradually widened. An excise tax of 10 percent applies to selected imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade are not restricted but are regulated by the Investment Law of the Kingdom of Cambodia of August 1994. The repatriation of profits is permitted in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations issued by the National Bank. Under the 1991 law, an exchange allowance for travel in the equivalent of $3,000 a person is granted 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 89 at the official rate for Cambodians going abroad for all types of travel, irrespective of the length of stay; amounts in excess of this limit must be approved by the National Bank. In practice, however, there are no limits on the use of foreign exchange for travel abroad. There are no officially established limits on other invisible payments. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received by private sec- tor entities are not subject to the repatriation or sur- render requirement. Proceeds from invisibles earned by state-owned enterprises are subject to the same regulations as those governing proceeds from mer- chandise exports. Exports and Export Proceeds Capital Exports of most products by registered trading companies may be undertaken without a license. Exports of a limited list of goods by both state- owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the Ministry of Commerce. Exports licenses are required for sawed timber logs and rice. Exports of rice, gems, and sawed timber are subject to a quota. There are also export restrictions on gold, silver, and antiquities. All proceeds from exports by state- owned enterprises must be repatriated and sold to or deposited with the Foreign Trade Bank of Cambo- dia (FTBC); private sector entities must repatriate and hold export proceeds in accounts with resident commercial banks. An excise tax of 10 percent of the estimated mar- ket value applies to exports of timber and other selected exports. An ad-valorem tax of 10 percent applies on exports of rubber. Borrowing abroad by public sector agencies is per- mitted only with the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Foreign investors are required to submit investment applications to the Cambodia Investment Board at the Council for Development of Cambodia for review and approval under the Investment Law. The Investment Law eliminated foreign exchange restrictions applying to investors in Cambodia. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 25. New banknotes were issued, with denominations ranging up to CR 100,000. Imports and Import Payments September 1. Certain imports were subject to pre- shipment inspection. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other for- eign currencies are also officially posted, with quota- tions based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the curren- cies concerned. A commission of 0.25 percent is lev- ied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances and official rep- resentation expenses paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all finan- cial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to the Opera- tions Account countries must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. Forward exchange cover requires the prior autho- rization of the exchange control authorities. It must be denominated in the currency of settlement pre- scribed in the contract, and the maturity period must not be less than three months or more than nine months. Settlements must be effected within eight days of the maturity date of the forward contract. Cameroon accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. ]The CFA f ranc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Bank of Central Afr ican States (BEAC) and is also legal tender in the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Economic Controls and External Finance of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import licenses for goods other than gold are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry, and those for gold by the Minis- try of Mines, Water, and Energy. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency As Cameroon has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its zone of issue, BEAC banknotes received by the for- eign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Yaounde may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Nonresidents are allowed to maintain bank accounts in convertible francs. These accounts, held mainly by diplomatic missions, international institutions, and their non- resident employees, may be credited only with (1) proceeds of spot or forward sales of foreign cur- rencies transferred from abroad by account owners; (2) transfers from other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments by residents in accordance with exchange regulations. These accounts may be debited only for (1) purchases of foreign currencies; (2) transfers to other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments to resi- dents in accordance with exchange regulations. Nonresidents may not maintain accounts in CFA francs abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Residents are not permitted to maintain 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 91 accounts abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for ecological, health, or safety reasons. Surcharges apply to imports of maize meal and cement. All import transactions valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank if the goods are not considered in transit. Transactions involving goods in transit must be domiciled with a foreign bank. Advance import deposits are permitted if underlying contracts stipu- late them. Since January 1994, import tariff rates range from 5 percent to 30 percent and duties on products imported from the member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are 20 percent of the corresponding rate applicable to imports from other countries. In September 1994, a 30 percent temporary import surcharge was intro- duced on maize meal, and in November 1994, a 20 percent temporary import surcharge was intro- duced on trailers, plastic bags, iron reinforcing bars, and cement. In July 1995, these import surcharges were phased out for trailers, iron reinforcing bars, and plastic bags. They were maintained on maize meal and were lowered on cement to 10 percent from 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries require prior declaration and are subject to presentation of relevant invoices. Payments for invisibles related to trade follow the same regime as basic trade transactions, as do trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries may be granted foreign exchange allowances subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 mil- lion a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Minis- try of Finance is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. However, these regulations are administered liberally and bona fide requests for allowances in excess of these limits are normally granted. Returning resident trav- elers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to sur- render within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resi- dent travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their dis- posal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment, other than banknotes, issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they were purchased with funds drawn from an account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; re-exportation above this ceiling requires documentation showing either the importa- tion of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in princi- ple, to up to 50 percent of the income declared for tax- ation purposes, net of repair costs and tax payments. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer of up to 50 percent of the salary of a for- eigner working in Cameroon, depending on the num- ber of dependents abroad, is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of for- eigners working in Cameroon temporarily who have been insured previously, residents and nonresidents are not allowed to contract insurance abroad when the same services are available in Cameroon. However, payments of premiums for authorized contracts are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions valued at CFAF 500,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries must be repatri- ated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of collection. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 Proceeds from Invisibles CAMEROON All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected within a month of the due date, and foreign currency receipts must be surren- dered within a month of collection. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring into Cameroon any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Capital Capital transactions between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control. Outward capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted. Inward capital transfers are free of restrictions, except for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration and authorization. Provided they have met their tax obligations, emi- grants to countries outside the Operations Account area may transfer abroad their full savings. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the rein- vestment of undistributed profits or do not exceed 20 percent of the fair market value of the company being purchased. The full or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report to the Minis- ter of Finance, unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the decla- ration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cameroon requires only a report to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cam- eroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct 2Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cameroon. investments, whether Cameroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Cameroon requires prior authori- zation from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to a report after the fact, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroon- ian Government and (2) shares similar to securities, when their issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. All for- eign securities and titles embodying claims on non- residents must be deposited with an authorized intermediary and are classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by natural and juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization and require only a report: (1) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance and must subse- quently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 93 and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. Under the Investment Code of November 1990, generalized fiscal benefits are provided to encourage exports and the development of natural resources, and further benefits are provided to enterprises qual- ifying for inclusion in one of the five regimes described below. The generalized fiscal benefits include an exemption from export duties and taxes on insurance and transportation for exports and a deduction of 5 percent of the value of exports from the exporter's taxable income. In addition, firms are exempted under certain conditions from all duties and purchase taxes on raw materials or intermediate inputs produced in Cameroon or the UDEAC region. The new code grants fiscal benefits to domestic and foreign firms undertaking new projects in the raw material processing, mining, forestry, agriculture, fishing, food, construction, equipment maintenance, industrial research, and tourism sectors. These bene- fits are provided as follows: (1) The basic regime applies to firms whose investment i§ labor intensive (defined as one job for each CFAF 10 million invest- ment), export-oriented firms, and firms that use domestic natural resources. During a three-year installation phase, firms under this regime are enti- tled to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, including their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, these firms are entitled to certain fiscal exemptions. During a five-year exploitation phase, certain tax exemptions are maintained. (2) The small and medium-size enterprise regime applies to firms that are labor intensive (defined as one job for each CFAF 5 million investment), whose investment is of modest size (less than CFAF 1.5 billion), and whose level of Cameroonian participation is at least 35 percent of capital. The benefits under this regime are the same as those under the basic regime, except that during the exploitation phase of seven years, firms may deduct from taxable income 25 percent of salaries paid to Cameroonian nationals. (3) The stra- tegic regime applies to enterprises declared strategic by the Cameroonian authorities and fulfilling certain other conditions. This regime provides the same ben- efits as those under the basic regime during the installation phase, which is five years, and the same benefits as those available under the small and medium-size enterprise regime during the exploita- tion phase, which is twelve years. (4) The free trade zone regime is available to enterprises devoted exclusively to exporting; terms are fixed by individ- ual agreements. (5) Firms that expand by more than 20 percent or that satisfy certain other conditions are eligible for benefits under the reinvestment regime. For three years, firms are subject to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, which includes their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, these firms are entitled to certain fiscal exemptions. Law No. 90/19 of August 10, 1990 provides that Cameroonian interests should hold at least one-third of the share capital of each banking institution. This law also requires banks with foreign majority partic- ipation to submit to the monetary authorities infor- mation on all current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the struc- ture of their equity holdings. Foreign managers must be approved by the monetary authorities and reside in Cameroon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy and the Minister of Finance, although such authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments July 1. Import surcharges introduced in late 1994 were eliminated on iron reinforcing bars, plastic bags, and trailers; the surcharge on maize meal was maintained at the rate of 30 percent, and the rate on cement was lowered to 10 percent from 20 percent. Julyl. The import of crude oil was liberalized. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Cameroon accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The Canadian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market; however, the author- ities intervene from time to time to maintain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing exchange rate (midpoint) for the U.S. dollar on December 31,1995 was Can$1.3640 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly determined in the market, and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Canada accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on March 25,1952. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Canada notified the Fund on July 23,1992 that in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Can- ada has also imposed restrictions on financial trans- actions with Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with UN Resolution No. 942. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required for only a few agri- cultural items, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natu- ral gas, and material and equipment for the produc- tion or use of atomic energy. In 1995, permits were required for the importation of controlled sub- stances classified as dangerous drugs and certain military armaments. In addition, Health Canada does not permit the importation of drugs not regis- tered with it. Import permits are required for carbon and specialty steel products for monitoring pur- poses only. Commercial imports of used motor vehi- cles (less than 15 years old) have been generally prohibited. However, the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from the United States was phased out over a five-year period that began in 1989, and the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from Mexico will be phased out by January 1, 2019. Imports of some clothing and certain textile products, usually in the form of bilateral restraint agreements (Memo- randa of Understanding) concluded under the Multifiber Arrangement negotiated within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), are also subject to quantitative restric- tions. In accordance with the provisions of the Uru- guay Round Agreement on textiles and clothing, Canada's system of import controls on textiles and clothing is being liberalized in stages over a ten-year period beginning January 1,1995. As a result of the commitments made under the Uruguay Round Agreement, Canada replaced agricultural import restrictions and prohibitions with tariff rate quotas for most products on January 1,1995, and for certain dairy and grain products on August 1, 1995. Under the new system, a quantity of imports (the current or minimum access commitment called for in the Uru- guay Round negotiating modalities, or the level of access required by the provisions of the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement) enters at a low tariff, while additional imports are subject to a higher tariff rate. Exports and Export Proceeds To support their export sales, exporters may have access to financing and insurance services provided by the Export Development Corporation. The surrender of proceeds from exports is not required and exchange receipts are freely dispos- able. The principal legal instrument governing export controls is the Export and Import Permits Act, which controls trade through the Export Con- trol List and Area Control List. The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to implement intergovernmental arrangements, maintain supplies, or ensure security. It includes all items identified in the International Munitions List, 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 95 the International Industrial List, and the Interna- tional Atomic Energy List. In addition, controls are maintained for supply reasons and for purposes of promoting fur ther processing in Canada (such as logs, roe herring, and (for nonproliferation pur- poses) chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems. The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled. At present, Angola and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are on the Area Control List. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the United States, as well as for all goods destined to countries on the Area Control List. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for or exchange receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the broadcasting, telecommunica- tion, transportation, fishery, and energy sectors. As a result of the Uruguay Round Agreement, Canada has eliminated the few remaining restrictions in the financial services sector. Specifically, the 10 percent individual and 25 percent collective limitations on the foreign ownership of Canadian-controlled, fed- erally regulated financial institutions, and the 12 percent asset ceiling on the size of the foreign bank sector in Canada were eliminated. This became effective on December 14, 1994, when amendrrients to the Bank Act, the Trust and Loan Companies Act, the Insurance Companies Act, the Cooperative Insurance Companies Act, and the Investment Com- panies Act received Royal Assent as part of the World Trade Organization Agreement Implementa- tion Act. These restrictions had already been lifted in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). In addition, under the provisions of the Investment Canada Act, new foreign investments are in general subject to notification requirements but not to review requirements. As a result of the NAFTA, only direct acquisitions of businesses with assets exceeding Can$l 68 million are subject to review beginning in 1996. Indirect acquisitions are no longer subject to review. These provisions were multilateralized as part of Canada's implementation of the Uruguay Round results. Investments subject to review are required only to pass a test proving that they will yield a net benefit to Canada. In addi- tion, acquisitions below these threshholds and investments to establish new businesses in cultur- ally sensitive sectors may be reviewed. There are no controls on outward direct investment or on inward or outward portfolio investment. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of arti- cles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bul- lion" coins containing 1 ounce of gold have also been issued since 1979. In 1982, Can$5 and Can$10 coins containing V\o and }A of an ounce of gold, respec- tively, were issued; in 1986, a coin containing Vi of an ounce of gold with a face value of Can$50 was issued. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control June 7. Formal negotiations on Chile's accession to NAFTA were initiated in Toronto. (Pending passage by the U.S. Congress of fast-track negotiating authority, Canada and Chile began negotiations on an interim bilateral trade accord in January 1996, consistent with the ultimate aim of NAFTA accession.) July 24. Under the auspices of the World Trade Organization (WTO), Canada agreed to be part of the interim agreement on financial services reached on July 26, 1995. Canada is a full participant in the OECD-based negotiations of a Multilateral Agree- ment on Investment (MAI), formally launched in September 1995. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Most agricultural import restrictions were replaced with tariff rate quotas. February 9. Final antidumping duties were imposed on golden delicious and red delicious apples. June 13. A number of tariff changes and related Customs Tariff amendments were introduced and subsequently approved as part of Bill C-102 on December 5,1995. These included reductions in tar- i f fs on a wide range of manufacturing inputs (classi- fied under some 1,500 tariff lines). Tourist exemption levels were increased. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA July 5. Countervailing duties were revoked on refill paper. August 1. Remaining agricultural import restric- tions were replaced with tariff rate quotas. October 20. Final antidumping duties were imposed on caps, lids, and jars. November 6. Final antidumping and/or countervail- ing duties were imposed on imports of refined sugar. December 21. Further reductions in preferential rates under Canada's generalized system of prefer- ences scheme, effective January 1, 1996, were announced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— CAPE VERDE (Position as of December 32,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of cur- rencies issued by the nine countries (other than the United States) that are the most important suppliers of imports and sources of emigrant remittances. The composition of the basket is revised annually; weights are determined using a formula giving a two-thirds weight to imports and a one-third weight to remittances. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo is expressed in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other curren- cies included in the basket. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V Esc 74.46 and C.V Esc 77.86, respectively, per $1. Most dealings in foreign exchange with the gen- eral public are conducted by the two commercial banks, Banco Comercial do Atlantico (BCA) and Caija Economica de Cabo Verde (CECV), which are allowed net foreign exchange positions of up to the equivalent of $1.5 million and $1 million, respec- tively.1 In addition to the two commercial banks, hotels and tourist agencies are authorized to buy for- eign exchange from the public. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Bank of Cape Verde, the central bank. Certain categories of imports, exports, and re- exports exceeding specified limits are subject to Bank of Cape Verde licensing. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. There are payments restrictions for security rea- sons in effect. Prescription of Currency Export proceeds and proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated in convertible currencies. Cape Verde maintains inoperative bilateral payments ]Two Portuguese banks that recently obtained licenses are not au thor ized to conduct foreign exchange transactions. agreements with Angola and Sao Tome and Prin- cipe, under which Cape Verde is a net creditor. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale, or surrender of receipts, of convertible currencies and may be deb- ited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency; such accounts must be replenished exclusively with for- eign exchange. Foreign enterprises may maintain accounts in foreign currency. Special Accounts (Emigrants) Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign exchange deposit accounts, (2) savings-credit deposit accounts, and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts may be credited only with convertible foreign currencies, and holders of sav- ings-credit deposit accounts are allowed to benefit from loans on special terms for financing small-scale projects. Interest on all three types of accounts may be freely remitted abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports with a value of less than C.V. Esc 100,000 are exempt from the licensing requirement. Imports of goods exceeding C.V. Esc 100,000 and not involv- ing payments from the country's foreign exchange resources are subject to the preregistration require- ment. The importation of maize, rice, sugar, and cooking oil is a government monopoly. Licenses, which are issued by the General Direc- torate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Transportation, and Communications, require the endorsement of the Bank of Cape Verde and are gen- erally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The pro- vision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the Bank of Cape Verde. Licenses are, in general, granted liber- ally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equipment. The Ministry of Tourism, Industry, and Commerce establishes a 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 CAPE VERDE list of products for which imports are subject to a global annual quota. This list includes mostly locally produced food items and beverages, (e.g., fish, bread, tomatoes, bananas, cereals, salt, beer, and soft drinks), with some items subject to seasonal quotas (e.g., potatoes, onions, and poultry). Payments for Invisibles Any persons traveling abroad may take out for- eign currency equivalent to C.V. Esc 100,000. Nation- als of Cape Verde traveling abroad as tourists are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed a maximum of C.V. Esc 100,000 on leaving the coun- try; students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, entitled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the country of destination. Persons traveling abroad on business may take an amount of foreign currency that varies according to the country of destination and the duration of each trip. Persons traveling abroad for medical treatment may take out an amount of foreign currency that varies according to medical needs. Applications for these allowances must be accompanied by medical certification before the trip, and medical bills must be presented on return to Cape Verde. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving for- eign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the Bank of Cape Verde. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The exportation of domestic currency by trav- elers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency but may re-export only up to the amount of currency they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds No licenses are required for exports. Proceeds from exports and invisibles must be sold to the com- mercial banks. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months, but this period may be extended. Law 92/IV/93, concerning export incen- tives, and Law Decree 2/94, concerning capital oper- ations, considerably reduce the effectiveness of this requirement. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to a commercial bank. The importation of domestic cur- rency is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the Bank of Cape Verde, but legally imported capital, including foreign direct invest- ment, may be re-exported without limitation. The exportation of resident-owned capital is not nor- mally permitted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold in either coins or bars require prior licensing by the Bank of Cape Verde. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 100 per F1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Republic do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. The Central African Republic accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1,1996. Administration of Control All d ra ft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the state require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Autono- mous Amortization Fund (CAADE) of the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations of the same ministry supervises lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some approval authority to the BEAC,2 to authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of these banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, these bank- notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all countries are free of licensing requirements or quotas. Imports of firearms are pro- hibited irrespective of origin. Import declarations are required for all imports, and all import transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled ]The CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is is- sued by the Bank of Central A f r ican States (BEAC) and is also le- gal tender in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 2The au thor i ty delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank- notes or their purchase against other means of pay- ment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. Payments for Invisibles Exports and Export Proceeds Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to a limit of CFAF 2 mil- lion; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank- notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regula- tions: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Minis- try of Finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. However, these regulations are administered liberally and bona fide requests for allowances in excess of these limits are normally granted. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travel- ers of means of payment other than banknotes regis- tered in their name and issued abroad is not restricted; however, documentation is required that such means of payment have been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank- notes above these ceilings requires documentation All exports require a declaration. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month of the due date, which must not be later than 90 days af ter the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authoriza- tion is obtained. Export proceeds received in curren- cies other than French francs or those of an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date. If payment is received in foreign currency, it must be surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintain- ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its public and semipublic enter- prises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a gov- ernment guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; over inward and outward direct investment; and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securi- ties in the Central African Republic. These controls ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 101 relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those con- trols over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, the mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the rein- vestment of undistributed profits. The full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the decla- ration during which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in the Central African Republic. All direct investments, whether Central African Repub- lic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, that are made or liqui- dated must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government, and (2) shares sim- ilar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offer- ing them for sale in the Central Afr ican Republic has previously been authorized. Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central Afr ican Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central A f r ican Republic. Inc lud ing those made by companies in the Central A f r ican Re- public that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central A f r ican Republic. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Repub- lic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central Afri- can Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transac- tions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one borrower. Loans referred to under (4) and each repayment must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the bor- rower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Repub- lic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central Afri- can Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are exempt from authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and Decision No. 18/65 of December 14,1965, of the Central African Customs and Economic Union, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the importation of specified equipment. In addition, certain enterprises are exempt from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of pref- erential treatment (A, B, and C) that allow fiscal and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC other privileges to be accorded to firms investing either in new enterprises or in the expansion of exist- ing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval of prefer- ential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is Chairman of the Investment Com- mission that considers the application. If the Com- mission gives a positive decision, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Minis- ters. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree from the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs decla- ration. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. The Central African Republic accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC),1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.01. The offi- cial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other for- eign currencies are also officially posted, with quota- tions based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the curren- cies concerned. All transfers and exchange opera- tions are subject to a commission levied by the Treasury. The commission rate amounts to 0.25 per- cent in the franc zone and 0.5 percent outside the franc zone. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange. Chad's exchange control measures, with the exception of those relating to gold, do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territo- ries) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Came- roon, the Central African Republic, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. However, they must be declared and made only through authorized banks, using bank checks. Payments to all other countries are subject to exchange control. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. Chad accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirectorate, which issues instructions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to countries outside the Operations Account area 'The CFA is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. must be made through authorized banks. The Minis- try of Finance supervises public and private sector borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment. It also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Arrears are maintained with respect to debt- service payments on public debt. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The repurchase of banknotes issued by the BEAC and in circulation outside the BEAC area is sus- pended; BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. A special import authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion is required for imports of sulphur and other explosives. The import of sugar is the monopoly of the SONASUT. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely. Only a simple declaration is required for transfers not exceeding CFAF 500,000 to countries outside the BEAC area by residents; for transfers of more than CFAF 500,000, prior authori- 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 CHAD zation must be obtained from the competent author- ities. For many types of payment, approval author- ity has been delegated to authorized banks. Autho- rized banks are required to execute promptly all duly documented transfer orders, and in any case to dispatch cable transfers within 48 hours of receipt of the relevant request. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require autho- rization. Transfers of bona fide income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely. Some current pay- ments, however, may be subject to delay. On a tem- porary basis, nonresidents, except diplomatic missions and their staff, international organizations and their staff, agencies with equivalent status and their staff, as well as employees and self-employed members of the professions (professionally active in Operations Account area countries for less than a year) are not permitted to send transfers to countries that are not franc zone members without prior authorization from the competent authorities. They may, however, receive transfers from abroad. Insurance on all imports to Chad with values exceeding CFA 500,000 on f.o.b. terms must be arranged with local insurance companies by the importer. The exportation (and importation) of banknotes issued by the BEAC to areas outside the BEAC area is prohibited. Travelers —civil servants on missions, students, persons on pilgrimage, etc. —must use the following payments instruments: foreign exchange, traveler's checks; bank draf ts, bank and postal transfers, etc. Residents visiting other franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs. This allocation can be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, and bank or postal transfers. For travel to countries outside the franc zone, the exchange allocation depends on the type of travel (as indicated below) and is subject to prior authori- zation from the relevant administrative authorities. This allocation can be made in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, or postal transfers. Residents traveling outside the franc zone for tourism may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a day up to a maximum of CFAF 4 million a trip for a person over 10 years of age; for children under 10, the allocation is reduced by one- ha lf. Residents traveling to countries outside the f ranc zone for business may obtain an exchange allo- cation equivalent to CFAF 500,000 a day, up to a max imum of CFAF 10 million a trip. Students or trainees leaving for the first time or returning to their normal place of study in countries outside the franc zone may obtain an exchange allocation equiv- alent to a three-month scholarship plus expenses for supplies. However, a student, whether or not the holder of a scholarship, may obtain an exchange allocation up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million. Civil servants and government employees traveling on official business to countries outside the franc zone may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to the allowances stipulated for such travel. How- ever, such civil servants and government employees may obtain an exchange allocation on the same basis as tourists only if their mission costs are less than a daily allocation of CFAF 200,000, up to a limit of CFAF 4 million. Residents traveling to countries out- side the franc zone for medical treatment may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a day up to a limit of CFAF 5 million. Residents travel- ing to countries outside the franc zone for reasons other than those listed above (sporting events, par- ticipation in expositions, organization of fairs, par- ticipation in seminars or international meetings in a personal capacity, pilgrimages, etc.) shall be granted exchange allocations on the same basis as those trav- eling for tourism. However, these regulations are administered liberally and bona fide requests for allowances in excess of these limits are normally granted. Resident and nonresident travelers may import into BEAC area countries an unlimited amount of coins and banknotes other than those denominated in CFA francs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surren- dered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Specified exports to certain neighboring countries, including Nigeria and Sudan, may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of COTONTCHAD. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ser- vices, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 105 foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Nonresidents traveling from one BEAC member country to another may take with them an unlimited amount of franc zone banknotes and coins. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out foreign exchange or other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry into the BEAC area. If they have made no declaration on entry into one of the BEAC countries, they may take out only up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capi- tal transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresi- dents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; over inward and outward direct investment; and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad. These controls relate only to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Chad, the mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, irrespective of the method of financing; the fu ll or partial liquida- tion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Chad 3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a mixed- economy enterprise; the fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Chadian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 30 days of each oper- 2Inc lud ing those made th rough foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Chad. Including those made by companies in Chad directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries of foreign companies in Chad. ation. (Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Chad requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in Chad has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, residing in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount of the loan outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7 percent, and the maturity is two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization and each repayment must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, residing in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans when the total amount of these loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The mak- ing of loans referred to under (2) are free of authori- zation but each repayment must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must maintain a specified mini- mum amount of their assets in Chad. Under the Investment Code published on Decem- ber 9,1987, any domestic or foreign enterprise estab- lished in Chad is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 CHAD exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The code provides for four categories of enterprises that may be eligible to receive various forms of pref- erential treatment (including certain tax privileges). Requests for preferential treatment must be submit- ted to the Minister of Finance, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. With the recommendation of this com- mission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, and CFAF 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold without specific authorization. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization from both the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate of Geologi- cal and Mining Research, as well as a visa from the External Finance Department. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. October 25. Imports of sulphur and explosives were subject to a special authorization. Payments for Invisibles August 21. Authorized banks were required to execute within 48 hours (formerly 24 hours) all duly documented transfer orders. August 21. The allocation for residents traveling outside the CFA franc zone for tourism was increased to CFAF 200,000 a day from CFAF 100,000, to a maximum of CFAF 4 million a trip a person from CFAF 2 million. The limit for business trips was increased to CFAF 500,000 a day from CFAF 250,000, to a maximum of a CFAF 10 million a trip a person from CFAF 5 million. The allocation for students was increased to CFAF 2 million from CFAF 1 million. The allocation for civil servants and government employees could be the same as others if their mis- sion costs are less than a daily allocation of CFAF 200,000, up to a limit of CFAF 4 million. The allocation for residents traveling outside the CFA franc zone for medical treatment was increased to CFAF 250,000 a day from CFAF 100,000, up to a max- imum of CFAF 5 million from CFAF 2.5 million. Proceeds from Invisibles August 21. The maximum amount of foreign exchange or other foreign means of payment that nonresidents can take out without declaration at entry was increased to CFAF 500,000 from CFAF 250,000. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 29. Import and export abolished. licenses were June 1. Chad accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of April 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). Its external (reference) value is based on a fixed basket of currencies consisting of 0.45 U.S. dollar, 0.4691 deutsche mark, and 24.6825 Japanese yen; the weight of each currency in the basket is based on its relative importance in Chile's international transac- tions. The external value of the basket is adjusted daily on the basis of the exchange rate relationships between the currencies included in the basket and the differential between the domestic and the for- eign rates of inflation, adjusted for an estimate of the appreciation trend of Chile's exchange rate. The Central Bank of Chile conducts foreign exchange transactions with the official exchange market enti- ties within margins of 10 percent around the refer- ence rate. On December 31, 1995, the reference rate was Ch$434.02 per US$1 and the interbank rate was Ch$413.50 per US$1. The official foreign exchange market consists of commercial banks, authorized exchange houses, and other entities licensed by the Central Bank. Debt-service payments; remittances of dividends and profits; and authorized capital trans- actions, including loan receipts, must be transacted through this market. In addition, there is an informal exchange market through which all transactions not required to be channeled through the official foreign exchange market are allowed to take place. In both markets, economic agents are free to negotiate exchange rates. The banks are authorized to sell their excess for- eign exchange holdings to other banks or to the Cen- tral Bank. Foreign exchange may be bought for the repayment of capital or interest abroad in due time if these debts are properly registered at the Central Bank. Pension funds and insurance companies may purchase foreign exchange through the official mar- ket to make investments abroad, subject to individ- ual limits on such investments. Mutual funds must purchase foreign exchange for foreign investments through the informal market for foreign exchange. Chile accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 27, 1977. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for implementing exchange control policy. The Chilean Copper Com- mission is responsible for supervising copper exports and all imports of the copper industry in accordance with general rules enacted by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Malay- sia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezu- ela are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the cen- tral banks of each of the countries concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of controls, with the excep- tion of used motor vehicles. Most imports require a document (Informe de Importation) issued by the Cen- tral Bank, which must be obtained and processed through the intermediary of a local commercial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions through the official foreign exchange market is not permitted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. Importers meeting the documentary requirements are granted access to the official foreign exchange market, regardless of the terms of the obligation involved, at least 30 days after the obligation's expira- tion date as it appears in the Informe de Importation. Imports are subject to a uniform tariff rate of 11 percent. A few items are exempt from the general tariff regime, including items on which tariffs have been negotiated with LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements. Imports of wheat, maize, edible oil, and sugar are subject to a special regime involving price margins within which the after-duty price must remain. In addition, tariff duties or surcharges are applied on a temporary basis to imports of certain products that are subsidized in the country of origin or dumped in Chile. Payments for Invisibles From April 17,1996, foreign exchange houses were allowed to sell up to US$15,000, or its equivalent in other foreign currencies, a calendar month, to any person for travel expenses; payments to international organizations; payments for studies abroad; social security payments; payments of real estate rents; sub- scriptions to magazines; purchase of books and other publications; medical treatment expenses; and other 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 CHILE nonspecified expenses upon presentation of a sworn declaration indicating the amount and use of the for- eign exchange requested. There are no special provisions for exports of domestic banknotes. Insurance activities within the country are limited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All products may be freely exported. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports are not subject to a surrender requirement, although export transactions must be reported to the Central Bank. Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all spot foreign exchange proceeds from exporters. Windfall receipts from copper exports of CODELCO (the state copper company) must be deposited in a special foreign cur- rency account at the Central Bank, and withdrawals from this account are permitted only under certain circumstances. Exporters of a limited number of products (approx- imately 6 percent of the country's annual exports) have the option of taking a tax reimbursement (within 120 days of repatriating the proceeds) in lieu of benefits under the existing import duty drawback scheme. Alternatively, exporters of these products may avail themselves of the provisions of Law No. 19.024, under which they may obtain refunds of the duties paid on imported inputs. Eligible products were defined initially as those whose average annual export values in 1990 were equal to or less than US$5 million. The list of eligible products is reviewed annually in the light of their export value during the previous year. Annual export values are also subject to adjustment each year. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invisi- bles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. Royalties and copyright fees, com- missions, proceeds from insurance, and other bene- f i ts related to foreign trade are subject to the same surrender requirement. The proceeds from fam i ly remittances, other commissions, or the surplus for- eign exchange from travel allocations are not required to be surrendered. There are no special provisions for imports of domestic banknotes. Capital All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of exist- ing credits by commercial banks requires prior regis- tration at, or approval from, the Central Bank; exceptions are lines of credit of up to one-year matu- rity with foreign correspondents. Short-term loans are subject to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. However, the Central Bank must still be notified of foreign borrowing that does not require its approval. All foreign investment is subject to a minimum one-year withholding period. All foreign borrowing, except for credits that are provided directly to Chilean exporters by foreign importers or by foreign suppliers to Chilean import- ers, and foreign financial investment (including sales of existing equity in Chilean companies by Chilean residents to nonresidents) are subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percent; this requirement may be satisfied by lodging a deposit in U.S. dollars at the Central Bank without interest or by entering into a special repurchase agreement for promissory notes with the Central Bank that effectively imposes a cost equivalent to the forgone interest. Banks and other financial institutions may reduce this reserve requirement through financial investments in for- eign exchange up to the maximum limit of such investments. The length of the period during which the reserve requirement must be held in the Central Bank is one year for loans and bonds. Credit lines and foreign exchange deposits are also subject to the 30 percent reserve requirement, which is based on the average monthly outstanding balance. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of the following arrangements, depending on the purpose and type of investment: (1) Title I, Chapter XIV of the Compendium of Rules on International Exchange stipulates that cap- ital brought into the country in the form of foreign borrowing (creditos externos) must be sold through authorized banks. Although there is no minimum term on the maturity of foreign borrowing, the 30 percent reserve requirement against external credits entering under Chapter XIV must be retained for one year. Repatriation is allowed only in accor- dance with the amortization schedule established at the time of registration. Accelerated payments or extensions of payment are subject to special authori- zation. Since June 1990, under Chapter XXVI of Title I, which refers to American depository receipts (ADRs), individuals and legal entities that are domi- ciled and resident abroad and that meet certain con- ditions have been permitted to remit abroad proceeds from the sale of stocks of registered corpo- rations domiciled in Chile that were purchased with funds abroad through the official exchange market. The remittance of dividends and profits accruing from such stocks is also allowed through the official exchange market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 109 (2) Chapter XIV of Title I of the Compendium of Rules authorizes the Central Bank to make exemp- tions to the general rules concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. Chilean enterprises and banks were authorized under Chapter XIV Regula- tions on May 13,1992, to issue bonds in foreign mar- kets. Nonfinancial enterprises with a credit rating from an international rating company that is equal to or better than that assigned to Chile can issue bonds with a minimum value of US$25 million. Issues of bonds by banks are subject to prior authori- zation by the Central Bank. In accordance with Chapters XXVI regulations, Chilean enterprises and banks are also authorized to issue ADRs. Since November 1995, the first issue should be for a mini- mum of US$25 million; the second issue should be for a minimum of US$10 million. The issuing com- pany must be rated by two international rating agencies at least BBB+ in the case of banks and BBB for other companies. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18,1977), the For- eign Investment Statute, establishes a special regime for long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a contract that stipulates that capital trans- fers to Chile will not normally exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. The dead- line may be extended up to twelve years for mining and up to eight years for other investments exceed- ing US$50 million. Investments of less than US$5 million may be approved by the Executive Vice President of the Committee, with a few excep- tions. There are no general limitations on profit remittances, but specific agreements in this regard may be included in the above-mentioned invest- ment contract. Capital may be repatriated after one year unless specified otherwise in the investment contract. Foreign investors may opt for one of two income tax systems. Both systems are based on the regular Chilean corporate income tax of 15 percent on profit repatriation. Under the first system, a fixed rate of 42 percent (which includes the corporate income tax of 15 percent) is guaranteed over a period of 10 years (up to 20 years for investments in excess of US$50 million). Alternatively, foreign investors may select a tax system that is similar to that which is applied to domestic investors. This sys- tem applies a 35 percent rate on profits before tax and deducts from it the 15 percent corporate income tax. The first system results in an effective rate of 38 percent on gross profits (before tax) and the sec- ond system in an effective rate of 35 percent on gross profits. Any foreign credits involved must be on financial terms authorized by the Central Bank. For- eign capital that entered Chile before the promulga- tion of Decree-Law No. 600 and that is not subject to that law continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Contract awards in the oil sector are decided by the Government under presidential decree; rights and responsibilities under such a decree may be vested in the Empresa Nacio- nal de Petroleo (ENAP) by the Ministry of Mines. (4) Chapter XXVI of the Compendium of Foreign Exchange Regulations permits Chilean corporations with a minimum specified international credit rating which are listed on foreign exchanges to issue shares or share-backed instruments (a minimum of US$25 million or its equivalent if it is a first issue, and US$10 million or its equivalent for second issues) for purchase abroad, provided at least 90 percent of the initial issue is purchased by foreign investors. To be eligible, banks and other financial institutions must be rated at least BBB+; other corporations must be rated at least BBB. The issue must be underwritten by a foreign bank with a minimum capital of at least US$1 billion and five years' operating experience at the time of reaching an agreement with the Central Bank. Under this chapter, individuals and legal enti- ties that are domiciled and resident abroad and that meet certain conditions are also permitted to remit abroad proceeds from the sale of stocks of registered corporations domiciled in Chile that were purchased with funds abroad through the official exchange market. The remittance of dividends and profits accruing from such stocks is also allowed through the official exchange market. (5) Law No. 18.657 permits foreign capital invest- ment funds to invest in shares in Chilean corpora- tions, instruments guaranteed by the banking system, letters of credit, bonds, and other securities approved by the Securities Commission, provided such funds meet certain portfolio diversification requirements and have a minimum paid-up capital of not less than 6,000 UF (a value reference unit). Repatriation of capital from sales of such instru- ments is allowed only after five years. No restric- tions apply to profit remittances by these funds. These funds have access to the official foreign exchange market for repatriation of capital, profits earned on such capital, and payments of expenses involved in foreign investment activities under cer- tain conditions. (6) Chilean corporations are permitted to invest abroad through a number of channels. Under Title I of Chapter XII of the Compendium of Rules on Inter- national Exchange, Chilean banks may invest up to 25 percent of their capital and reserves abroad, of which 20 percent may be in equity of foreign finan- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 CHILE cial institutions, with approval from the Central Bank and the Office of the Superintendent of Banks and Financial Institutions. Up to 30 percent of the total amount permitted may be invested in financial instruments with a minimum rating of BB-. Pension funds may make foreign investments for amounts equivalent to up to 9 percent of their assets; up to 4.5 percent can be invested in equity instruments. Life insurance companies may invest up to 10 percent of their assets in foreign financial instru- ments and up to 3 percent in urban nonresidential real estate. General insurance companies may invest up to 15 percent in foreign financial instruments and up to 3 percent in urban nonresidential real estate. Mutual funds may invest up to 30 percent of their assets in foreign investments. Except for mutual funds, foreign investments must meet certain mini- mum risk criteria. Insurance companies must also meet certain portfolio diversification criteria. Except for mutual funds, foreign exchange for these trans- actions may be purchased through the official mar- ket for foreign exchange. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized houses, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals may be freely under- taken. Imports and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance with the normal formalities for import and export transactions, including regis- tration with the Central Bank. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 16. The Central Bank (1) defined norms and requirements for exchange houses and brokerage companies through which pension funds can carry out domestic and foreign financial transactions (these exchange houses and brokerage companies constitute the "formal secondary market"); (2) speci- fied that mutual funds will not be granted access to the formal exchange market to carry out exchange operations related to their investments abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds April 18. The Central Bank extended until April 19, 1996, the general exchange restrictions contained in the Compendium of Foreign Exchange Regulations, and established that as of June 16, 1995, exporters would no longer be required to surrender export proceeds to the Central Bank, although they would still be required to inform the Central Bank of these operations for statistical purposes. Capital January 5. The Central Bank specified that the maximum amount of financial investment that banks and financial institutions can deduct from the foreign exchange position used to calculate their reserve requirement is equal to the maximum limit on such investments. January 12. The Central Bank established the fol- lowing ceilings on investment abroad: (1) for pen- sion funds, the ceiling was raised to 6 percent from 3 percent of their total assets; (2) for life insurance companies, 10 percent of their assets in foreign financial instruments and up to 3 percent in urban nonresidential real estate; (3) for general insurance companies, 15 percent of their assets in foreign financial instruments and up to 3 percent in urban nonresidential real estate; (4) for mutual funds, 30 percent of their total assets, without reference to any minimum rating requirement or any specific number of countries. Pension funds and insurance companies are granted access to the formal exchange market to carry out these operations. As a transitory provision, the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions would determine the time period during which banks will be required to adjust the ratio between their foreign investments and their total assets to the ceiling established by the Central Bank. March 2. The Central Bank authorized exchange houses operating in the formal exchange market to carry out exchange operations related to investment abroad by pension funds, insurance companies, and mutual funds. May 17. The limit on foreign investment by pen- sion funds was increased to 9 percent from 6 percent of the total value of the fund, and investment in vari- able income securities up to 4.5 percent of the value of the fund was allowed. July 3. The coverage of the existing 20 percent reserve requirement on foreign liabilities was broad- ened to include investment flows that do not consti- tute an increase in the capital stock but only a transaction of assets from residents to nonresidents. Investment through the DL600 (the Foreign Invest- ment Statute) and through Foreign Capital Invest- ment Funds (FICEs) would be specifically excluded from the application of the reserve requirement. The Central Bank eased the ceiling on foreign investment by banks and financial institutions by allowing 30 percent of the 25 percent ceiling of capital and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 111 reserves to be invested in instruments with a mini- mum rating of BB-, but the remaining 70 percent must be invested in BBB- or less risky securities, below the minimum A- requirement in place earlier. The credit rating of the securities in which pension funds can invest was lowered from A- to BBB-. For the stock investments of insurance companies, instead of con- sidering the country risk of the issuing country, a min- imum BBB- credit rating requirement for the country where the stocks are traded was established. August 7. Chapters XVIII and XIX of the Compen- dium on Foreign Exchange Regulations, which gov- erned the purchase of selected Chilean foreign debt instruments abroad and restricted related profit and capital remittances, were eliminated, thus lifting restrictions on the remittances of profits and the three-year holding for capital entered under these regulations. September 20. The Central Bank reduced to 5 days from 65 days the period in which banks can sell or purchase foreign exchange in connection (ADR) receipts w i th American depository transactions. November 10. The Central Bank introduced an esti- mate of differentials in productivity growth between Chile and its trading partners as a new factor in the determination of the official reference exchange rate. This new factor will allow for a gradual yearly appreciation of 2 percent in real terms. November 22. Corporations with ADRs in foreign stock exchanges were allowed to make new issues of ADRs with a minimum of US$10 million or its equivalent in other currencies. Changes During 1996 Payments for Invisibles April 17. Foreign exchange houses were allowed to sell up to US$15,000, or its equivalent in other for- eign currencies, a calendar month, to any person for travel expenses; payments to international organiza- tions; and payments for studies abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of April 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi, the external value of which is deter- mined in the interbank market.1 At the start of each trading day, the People's Bank of China announces a reference rate based on the weighted average of the buying and selling rates against the U.S. dollar during the previous day's trading. Daily movement of the exchange rate of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar is limited to 0.3 percent on either side of the reference rate. Based on the middle rate published by the PBC, the designated banks quote their buy- ing and selling rates to their customers within a range of 0.25 percent. On December 31, 1995, the middle market rate of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar was Y 8.3179 per $1. There are no forward exchange market arrange- ments operating in the official or commercial bank- ing sectors. Administration of Control The People's Bank of China exercises central bank functions and control over foreign exchange; the State Administration of Exchange Control (SAEC), as a government institution under the leadership of the People's Bank of China, is responsible for imple- menting exchange regulations and for administer- ing the foreign exchange market in accordance with state policy. There are a number of SAEC sub- bureaus in the provinces, main municipalities, autonomous regions, and special economic zones. The Bank of China is China's principal foreign exchange bank. Other banks and financial institu- tions, including affiliates of nonresident banks, may handle designated transactions with the approval of the SAEC. Currently, more than 2,500 institutions are authorized to handle foreign exchange transac- tions. Individuals may hold foreign exchange but generally may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage 1 Since April 1,1994, the China Foreign Exchange Trading Sys- tem (CFETS), a nationally integrated electronic system for inter- bank foreign exchange trading, has been operating in Shanghai. At present, 22 foreign exchange trading centers in major cities— accounting for the bulk of all foreign exchange transactions —are electronically linked to the CFETS. To trade in the system, f inan- cial ins t i tu t ions mu st become members of the CFETS. Desig- nated domestic financial ins t i tu t ions are allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange on their own account. Other financial institu- tions, including branches of foreign banks, may trade foreign ex- change as brokers on behalf of their customers. operations. Financial institutions may hold foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency As of the end of 1995, an operative bilateral pay- ments agreement was maintained with Cuba.2 Unless there are specific regulations, the currencies used in transactions are determined by the terms of the respective contracts. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents3 remaining in China for a short time may open nonresident accounts with the Bank of China and other authorized banks and financial institutions. Foreign-funded enterprises (FFEs), including joint ventures, may also open foreign exchange current accounts and use them to make payments abroad. In addition, the People's Bank of China has specified other categories of foreign exchange accounts that domestic enterprises may maintain with designated banks by presenting the certificates of permit issued by the SAEC. Branches of foreign banks and other financial institutions may grant loans in foreign exchange and domestic banks may accept foreign currency deposits from FFEs and domestic enterprises approved by the SAEC. Individuals may open resident foreign currency savings accounts with designated banks and may withdraw foreign currency from, or deposit it to, such accounts without restriction. Imports and Exports Primary responsibility for formulating foreign trade policies and ensuring the implementation of regulations and policy measures rests with the Min- istry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC), which also issues the licenses required for restricted imports and a large number of exports.4 Inoperative bilateral payments agreements are maintained with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, the Russian Federation, and Vietnam. 3Nonresidents include Chinese working overseas and resi- dents of foreign countries and of the Hong Kong and Macao re- gions. Diplomatic representatives are also included. 4MoFTEC itself issues licenses for some restricted imports into Beijing; for the rest, it delegates its authority to its special com- mission offices at major ports and to its regional counterpart, the Commission on Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. 112 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 113 MOFTEC does not engage in direct foreign trade transactions and is not involved in the daily man- agement of trading corporations. Foreign trade is conducted by foreign trade corporations (FTCs) and other entities licensed by MOFTEC to conduct foreign trade. At the end of 1995,4,228 FTCs were in opera- tion. In addition, FFEs are permitted to conduct international trade directly. All enterprises other than registered FTCs must obtain approval from the local foreign trade bureau in accordance with MOFTEC authorization, as well as a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce, to engage in foreign trade. All foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatriated and sold to designated banks, except those of FFEs and those approved by the SAEC. FFEs are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange and to sell or purchase foreign exchange in the swap centers. Since the beginning of 1995, FFEs that have passed an annual audit by the SAEC have not been required to obtain approval for each foreign exchange transaction in the swap centers; FFEs that have failed the audit are required to obtain approval for each transaction. The purpose of annual auditing is to ensure that export and con- tractual obligations are met. In 1995, SAEC approval was liberally granted. Since April 1996, FFEs are allowed to participate, directly or indi- rectly through a bank, in the interbank foreign exchange market. Authorized local banks provide foreign exchange for imports when import contracts and commercial documentation are presented. Import licenses, when required, are examined by the banks. Resi- dents may not pay for imports with local currency except in border trade. Imports into China are classified into two catego- ries —restricted imports and unrestricted imports.5 The importation of products on the restricted list is controlled through licensing requirements or quo- tas. The importation of the following products is subject to canalization (i.e., restricted to designated FTCs): wheat, chemical fertilizers, crude oil and oil products, rubber, steel, timber, plywood, polyester fibers, tobacco and its products, cotton, and wool. Imports of all secondhand garments, poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited. In addition, the importation and expor- tation of weapons, ammunition and explosives, radio receivers and transmitters, Chinese currency exceeding Y 6,000, manuscripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be 5At the end of 1995, 354 ta r i ff lines were on the restricted list. detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests are prohibited. All imports and exports require prior inspection before they can be released by customs at the port of entry or exit. Exports of specified machine tools require a license from the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities for purposes of quality control. Controls in the form of registration for surveillance purposes are exercised on the importation of machinery and electric equipment in order to monitor the supply and demand situation. The customs regime is regulated by the Customs Law of China and the Regulations on Import and Export Tariffs of China. The tariff rates for imports fall into two categories: general and preferential. General rates apply to imports originating in the countries or regions with which China has not con- cluded trade treaties or agreements with reciprocal favorable tariff clauses; preferential rates apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has concluded such treaties and agreements. The duties are calculated on the basis of the transac- tion value of imported goods. At the end of 1995, the average unweighted tariff rate was 35.7 percent. Imports into Tibet are subject to a separate system of customs duties established by the State Council. The tariff applies to goods imported for use in Tibet on a nondiscriminatory basis and irrespective of origin; it does not apply to imports into Tibet by mail or in the luggage of travelers, which are subject to the regular Chinese tar iff. A uniform value-added tax is applied to both domestic and imported products; the relevant pro- visions are contained in Provisional Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Value-Added Tax (December 13,1993), and Provisional Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Consumption Tax (December 13,1993). Before 1991, special economic zones were set up in Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, Zhuhai, and Hainan. A special development area was established in Pud- ong (Shanghai), and economic and technological development zones were established in 14 desig- nated coastal cities. In 1992, approval was granted for the establishment of a large number of similar zones in selected inland cities and border regions that have recently been declared open to foreign trade and investment. Foreigners, Chinese working overseas, and Chinese from Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan Province of China are permitted to invest in and open businesses in these zones and areas either through wholly owned ventures or joint ventures with Chinese investors. Equipment and machinery or parts and components thereof, and other means of production imported by and intended to be used ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA in the production of the enterprises in the zones are exempt from import duties. A number of restrictions are imposed on exports, primarily raw materials and food products. At the end of 1995, product items were subject to export- licensing requirements or quotas, and 47 product items were subject to export duties. A portion of the output of goods not produced in adequate quanti- ties but for which a strong demand exists in the for- eign market is set aside for export. Exports of certain products, such as valuable cultural relics, rare books, and animals, seeds, plants, precious metals, and artifacts made from precious metals are prohibited. Export quotas for certain products are allocated, on an experimental basis, through a public bidding system that allows free competition among enter- prises leading to higher export prices, greater returns for exports, and higher efficiency of foreign trade enterprises.6 During 1995, 24 product items subject to export quotas were distributed under the bidding system. Purchases of foreign exchange, other than by FFEs, for trade (and trade-related) transactions do not require the approval of the SAEC. Foreign exchange for trade may be purchased from designated banks, provided that the importer has a valid import contract and a notice of payment from a foreign financial institution; for imports sub- ject to licensing, quotas, or registration procedures, presentation of the certificates concerned is also required. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange may be purchased to pay for trade-related services upon presentation of con- tracts or payment notices. The remittance of profits and dividends earned on foreign direct investment is not restricted af ter applicable taxes have been paid. After-tax profits of foreign-funded enterprises may be remitted in accordance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances must be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. If the outstanding balance of such an account is not sufficient, FFEs may buy foreign exchange from swap centers or in the interbank 6Three types of bidding are conducted under the system: (1) negotiated bidding is applied to products whose exportation is to be balanced by the state; (2) invitation bidding is applied to raw ma ter ia ls produced in geographically concentrated areas; and (3) oriented bidding is applied to products that are manufac tured in geographically concentrated areas and whose export channels are limited. Only one type of bidding is conducted for a product in any calendar year. market. Income from interest, royalties, and rent earned by foreign businesses without establish- ments in China is subject to a 10 percent withhold- ing tax in the special economic zones, in the economic and technological development areas of the 14 open coastal cities, and in the newly opened inland and border cities; and a 20 percent tax applies to all other regions. Foreign exchange needed for nontrade and non- commercial payments by budgeted organizations, institutions, and social bodies may be purchased from the Bank of China, upon presenting the Appli- cation for Nontrade Payments, at the exchange rate of the day of purchase and within the limits speci- fied by the SAEC. Off-budget domestic establish- ments may purchase foreign exchange for nontrade and noncommercial payments from designated banks by presenting the Exchange Sale Instruction issued by the SAEC. Chinese residents wishing to travel abroad or remit funds abroad may apply to the designated banks. In cases of serious illness, death, or injury affecting Chinese residents' parents, spouses, or children outside China, the residents may apply for foreign exchange up to a specified limit on presen- tation of documentary verification. In general, if permission is granted to travel abroad, Chinese res- idents are allowed to take a reasonable amount of their own foreign exchange to cover expenses for transport and subsistence. There is no tax on travel. Chinese residents who retire and emigrate are nor- mally permitted to receive their pensions abroad, but transfers of proceeds from the sale of their assets in China are limited. All enterprises, except FFEs, must sell their foreign exchange earnings from invisible transactions to an authorized bank. Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or from Hong Kong and Macao to Chinese residents may be retained and used to open a savings account at a designated bank or sold for renminbi at the rate quoted by the banks. Similarly, foreign exchange owned by immigrants or returning Chi- nese before they become residents may be retained. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents working abroad, including Hong Kong and Macao, and foreign exchange earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums must be repatriated. Individuals may retain or deposit exchange receipts with desig- nated banks. Foreign members and employees of FFEs, as well as those from Hong Kong and Macao,7 may remit 7Inc lud ing those employed by enterprises that have been es- tablished with capital provided by Chinese residing abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 115 their salaries and other income earned in China after paying taxes and deducting their living expenses in China and af ter receiving approval from the relevant local authorities. Capital Foreign borrowing is classified as either "plan" or "nonplan" borrowing.8 Plan borrowing includes (1) borrowing by the government sector (through the People's Bank of China, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, and MOFTEC or enter- prises under the MOFTEC'S control) from foreign governments or international organizations and bilateral sources; (2) external borrowing by Chinese financial institutions; (3) external borrowing by authorized Chinese enterprises; and (4) short-term trade credits over three months. Nonplan borrow- ing includes (1) borrowing by FFEs; and (2) borrow- ing from branches of foreign banks or jointly invested banks operating in China. Within these limits, the State Planning Commis- sion (SPC) coordinates foreign borrowing for projects included in the annual and five-year plans. Under this procedure, the project-executing agen- cies (the Ministry of Finance, MOFTEC, foreign trade corporations, and provincial governments) propose projects to the SPC. The proposals indicate the total amount of foreign exchange needed, projected for- eign exchange earnings, projected foreign borrow- ing, and the types of imports for which the loans are intended. The SPC reviews these plans and, in cooperation with the SAEC, the Ministry of Finance, and MOFTEC, recommends to the State Council the overall number of projects and their associated financing. Loans for vital projects or projects that have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. Within these guidelines, loans from international financial institutions and foreign governments require the clearance of the SPC and the approval of the State Council. Loans from the World Bank are generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance; borrowing from the International Mone- tary Fund (IMF) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) is the responsibility of the People's Bank of 8The SAEC is the sole agency for monitoring and collecting s ta t is t ics for Ch ina's external borrowing. It permits the Bank of China and other f inanc ial and non f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions responsi- ble for und e r t ak ing commercial borrowing to contract short- term loans up to specified l im i ts w i thout prior approval. All bond issues, however, are subject to prior approval from the SAEC. All foreign borrowing m u st be registered w i th the SAEC. Borrowers who do not comply are not permitted to t rans fer for- eign exchange abroad to service the ir external debt obligations and are subject to other penalties. China; and intergovernmental loans are the respon- sibility of MOFTEC. Local governments and enter- prises usually borrow through the Bank of China (or with its guarantee) or through specialized agen- cies, such as international trust and investment companies, rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. The SPC sets an annual limit on such borrowing. Resident organizations issuing securi- ties for foreign exchange must be approved by the People's Bank of China. All medium- and long-term commercial borrow- ing abroad (including bond issues) under the plan requires prior approval from the SAEC on a case- by-case basis and must be conducted through authorized Chinese financial institutions. Borrow- ing quotas are allocated under the annual plan. The China International Trust and Investment Corpora- tion (CITIC) has been permitted, on an experimen- tal basis, to borrow abroad without first obtaining approval for each loan from the SAEC, as long as its outstanding debt is within the limits set by the State Council. Chinese financial institutions are permit- ted an annual ceiling by the SAEC on the outstand- ing balance of short-term loans. All foreign direct investment projects are, in prin- ciple, subject to the approval of MOFTEC. However, a number of provincial and local authorities have been granted the authority to approve foreign direct investment projects up to specified amounts. The policy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up for insufficient domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technol- ogy and management. Joint-venture enterprises and wholly foreign- owned companies are required to balance their for- eign exchange receipts and payments, and foreign borrowing must be reported to, and filed with, the SAEC.9 Most foreign exchange earned by joint ven- tures and other enterprises involving nonresident capital must be deposited with an authorized bank; outward transfers of capital generally require SAEC approval. Enterprises involved in the exploitation of offshore petroleum reserves may also hold for- eign exchange abroad or in Hong Kong or Macao. When a joint venture ceases operation, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval. Alternatively, the foreign investor may apply for repayment of paid- in capital. 9To help ind iv idual enterprises balance their foreign receipts and payments, enterprises with a surplus of foreign exchange may sell it to enterprises lacking sufficient foreign exchange through the foreign exchange ad jus tment centers, or in the inter- bank marke t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA The profits of joint ventures in special economic zones, the 14 coastal cities, the newly opened inland and border cities, and of those exploiting petro- leum, natural gas, and other specified resources are subject to tax at the rate of 15 percent. A joint ven- ture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from income tax in the first one or two profit-making years and allowed reductions of 50 percent for the following three years. Joint ven- tures in low-profit operations, such as farming and forestry, or located in areas considered to be eco- nomically underdeveloped may, upon the approval of the Ministry of Finance, be allowed a fu r ther 15- 30 percent reduction in income tax for another ten years. A participant in a joint venture that reinvests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested profit. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other eco- nomic organizations with establishments in China that are engaged in independent business opera- tions, cooperative production, or joint business operations with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax only on their net income from sources in China. Under the Income Tax Law of the People's Republic of China for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises (July 1, 1991), a standard income tax rate of 33 percent is levied on all foreign investment enterprises and foreign enterprises; it consists of a 30 percent state income tax and a 3 percent local tax. Certain exemptions and reduc- tions from income tax are available in the special economic zones and other special open investment areas. Correspondingly, foreign state banks located in countries where income from interest on the deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempt from income tax are also exempt from this Chinese tax. Foreign business without establishments in China are subject to a reduced tax of 10 percent (half the usual rate) on interest income or leasing fees (less than the value of equipment) earned under credit, trade, and leasing agreements made with Chinese companies and enterprises from 1983 to 1985 but only for the duration of the agreements. For fees collected by foreign businessmen for the use of special technology provided in such fields as agriculture, animal husbandry, research, energy, communications, transport, environmental protec- tion, and the development of important techniques, income tax may, with the approval of the tax authorities, be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent or waived for advanced technology pro- vided on favorable terms. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is sub- ject to approval; profits earned thereby must be sold to designated banks, except for a portion that may be retained abroad as a working balance. Gold The People's Bank of China buys and sells gold and has central control over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to phar- maceutical, industrial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlim- ited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import document from customs or a People's Bank of China export permit. Nonresidents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes During 1995 Imports and Exports January 13. FFEs that have passed an annual aud it by the SAEC are no longer required to obtain approval for each foreign exchange transaction in the swap centers. FFEs that have failed the aud it are required to obtain approval for each transaction. June 30. Import restrictions on 367 tariff lines were abolished. The main liberalized product items included crude oil, grain, chemical fiber fabrics, and some electronic goods. July 1. Import tariff rates on a number of manu- factured goods were reduced, including video tapes (from 100 percent to 50 percent) and vehicles (from 180 percent to 100 percent). Changes During 1996 Administration of Control April 1. The SAEC issued new foreign exchange control regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. All foreign exchange operations take place at a market-determined exchange rate. The Superinten- dency of Banks calculates a representative market exchange rate based on market rates.1 The Banco de la Republica, the central bank, conducts foreign exchange transactions only with the Ministry of Finance and authorized financial intermediaries and does not conduct foreign exchange transactions directly with the nonbank private sector. The Banco de la Republica announces the upper and lower lim- its of a 14 percentage point band ten days in advance for indicative purposes. It also quotes buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar in markets abroad. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates of the Banco de la Republica were Col$884.70 and Col$l,017.88, respectively, per US$1. The representative market exchange rate was Col$987.65 per US$1. Other effective exchange rates result from (1) tax credit certificates for nontraditional exports (certifica- dos de reembolso tributaries or CERTs) granted at three different percentage rates; (2) an 8 percent surtax on remittances of earnings on existing non-oil foreign investments (to be reduced to 7 percent by 1996), a 15 percent surtax on remittances of earnings on existing foreign investments in the oil sector (to be reduced to 12 percent in 1996), and a 12 percent surtax on remittances of earnings from foreign investments made after 1993; and (3) a 3 percent withholding tax on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and other transfers (the rate was 10 percent during 1995). The Government purchases foreign exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget under the same conditions as other authorized intermediaries.3 'The representative ma rket exchange ra te is calculated as the weighted average of buy ing and selling rates, effected by foreign exchange market intermediaries, excluding teller transactions (Resolution No. 21 of September 3,1993). 2Au s t r i an schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3The Banco de la Republica stands ready to sell foreign ex- change wa r ran ts (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio) to public enterprises in the electricity sector and to the Na t ional Fed- Residents are permitted to buy forward cover against exchange rate risks in respect of foreign exchange debts in convertible currencies registered at the Banco de la Republica on international mar- kets. Residents may also deal in over-the-counter forward swaps and options in U.S. dollars. Administration of Control All imports require registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (!NCOMEX). The Customs and Taxes Directorate (DIAN), within the Ministry of Finance, enforces ex post control and supervision over trade transactions and is responsible for apply- ing penalties for any violation of the exchange regula- tions relating to trade. The Superintendency of Trade and Industry and the Superintendency of Banks are also responsible for the enforcement of exchange reg- ulations. The authorized foreign exchange intermedi- aries are commercial banks, financial corporations, Financiera Energetica Nacional (FEN), Banco de Comercio Exterior de Colombia (BANCOLDEX), and savings and loans corporations. Exchange houses (casas de cambio) are authorized to carry out a range of foreign exchange activities. Financial intermediaries are allowed to hold a net foreign exchange position equivalent to no more than 20 percent of their net worth. There are no regulations governing the net foreign exchange positions of exchange houses; they may sell their excess foreign holdings to authorized financial intermediaries, because they do not have access to the Banco de la Republica. The Foreign Trade Council (FTC), which includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, INCOMEX, other public entities, and two of its own officers, determines overall import and export policy. INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing, and administers Plan eration of Coffee Growers (Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros) in accordance w i th the terms of Resolution 16/1991 of the Banco de la Republica. These warrants, expressed in U.S. dollars, have a m a t u r i ty of 12 months, and, within their period of validity, may be sold to the Banco de la Republica for pesos at the reference ma rket buy ing rate on the da te of repurchase. Warran ts bear in- terest at the ra te equal to that of external loans, but never higher than the average 30-day rate on pr imary certificates of deposit at the close of operations in the New York ma rket for the day before the certificate is issued, less 1 percentage point if held by public sector recipients of external loans. Warrants held longer than 12 months may be resold to the Banco de la Republica at the refer- ence ma rket ra te on the last day of the twe lf th month. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 COLOMBIA Vallejo, which is a special import-export arrange- ment concerning a rebate of taxes paid on imported inputs used in the production of exported goods. INCOMEX, together with the Committee on Commer- cial Practices, administers antidumping cases. The Government regulates the foreign direct invest- ments through legislative and executive decrees, in consultation with the National Council for Eco- nomic and Social Policy (CONPES). The Banco de la Republica keeps a record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, and commissions. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but residents and financial intermediar- ies are allowed to carry out operations in any cur- rency. Settlements for commercial transactions with countries with which Colombia has reciprocal credit agreements may be made through special accounts in accordance with the provisions of such agree- ments. Settlements between Colombia and Argen- tina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts main- tained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with China. Nonresident Accounts Residents may maintain foreign exchange accounts (compensation accounts) registered at the Banco de la Republica to pay for imports, to invest abroad in financial assets, or to carry out any other foreign exchange operations. Proceeds from services (except interest and profits) and transfers may be used to maintain foreign accounts abroad; these accounts do not have to be registered at the Banco de la Republica. Foreign exchange intermediaries may receive deposits in domestic currency from nonresi- dent individuals and juridical persons. The deposits need not be registered at the Banco de la Republica; they may only be used in trade-related transactions. Banks must report transactions through these accounts to the Banco de la Republica. Imports and Import Payments Importers may purchase foreign exchange directly from the exchange market. In addition, they may use the proceeds from deposits held abroad. Foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in the free-trade areas are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange from financial intermedi- aries. Import payments must be made within six months of the due date of the bill of lading. Imports are subject to one of the following two regimes: (1) freely importable goods requiring regis- tration only with iNCOMEx;4 and (2) goods subject to prior approval and requiring an import license. Most imports are in the free-import regime, where there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list applicable only to member countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to mem- ber countries of the LAIA and members of the Andean Pact. With certain exceptions, imports are subject to the common external tariff of the Andean Pact. Imports subject to a prior licensing require- ment consist of medicines and chemical products (30 tariff positions) and weapons and munitions (39 tariff positions). Import registrations are granted automatically. However, import registrations by some public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for 6 months, except those for agricultural and livestock products, which are valid for 3 months, and those for capital goods, which are valid for 12 months; import licenses may be extended only once for the same period. The charge for import registration is Col$l2,800. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products are effected by Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL). Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments for invisibles may be obtained through foreign exchange intermediar- ies or exchange houses. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required. All exchange pro- ceeds from exports of goods that are repatriated must be surrendered to authorized financial inter- mediaries within six months or must be maintained in foreign accounts registered at the Banco de la Republica. However, exporters are permitted to retain their export proceeds abroad or in compensa- tion accounts, to invest in financial assets, or to effect any other payment operations. In addition, firms with foreign capital engaged in exploration and pro- duction of oil and natural gas are not required to surrender their foreign exchange. These firms, how- imports or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$500 are classified as minor imports and do not have to be registered w i th INCOMEX. All other imports are subject to registration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 119 ever, may not purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market for any purpose, and must sell for- eign exchange in the exchange market for domestic currency to pay for expenses in Colombia. Firms that do not wish to take advantage of this special arrangement must inform the Banco de la Republica, and all of their exchange operations will be subject to the provisions of regular exchange regulations for an irrevocable period of ten years. On surrendering their export proceeds in the for- eign exchange market, exporters of products other than coffee, petroleum, and petroleum products may receive tax credit certificates in an amount corre- sponding to a specified percentage of the f.o.b. value surrendered. Three rates—2.5 percent, 4 percent, and 5 percent—are applied, depending on the product and the country of destination; the rates are calculated on domestic value added. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and certain other taxes. For a specified list of exports, the applica- ble rate of the certificate was raised by 3 percentage points during the period May-December 1995. Exports of coffee are subject to the following regu- lations: (1) a minimum surrender price is the sales price shown on the export declaration; (2) exporters pay a coffee contribution on the basis of interna- tional market prices; (3) the National Coffee Com- mittee (composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Feder- ation) may establish a physical coffee contribution on the basis of international market prices; and (4) the National Coffee Committee establishes a domes- tic buying price based on international prices for export-type coffee expressed in pesos per cargo of 125 kilograms. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by the public sector may be surrendered to financial intermediar- ies or to the Banco de la Republica. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from services and transfers are not required to be surrendered through the foreign exchange market but may be sold to exchange houses or to financial intermediaries or used through foreign accounts. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at market rates. All foreign investments and foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank resi- dents,5 and the transfer of capital previously imported must be registered with the Banco de la Republica. Foreign direct investments in Colombia are governed by Law No. 9 of 1991 (January 17, 1991) and the CONPES Resolution No. 49, 51-57 of 1991. These regulations are in accordance with the provisions of Decisions Nos. 291 and 292 of the Car- tagena Agreement, which govern foreign invest- ments within the member countries of the Andean Pact. Foreign investment is freely allowed up to 100 percent of ownership in any sector of the economy, except in defense and waste disposal. Special regimes remain in effect in the financial, petroleum, and mining sectors. While foreign capital participa- tion in the financial sector is permitted up to 100 percent, except in the areas of defense, disposal of foreign nuclear or chemical waste, and real estate, the purchase of 10 percent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Superintendent of Banks. CONPES can legislate special conditions affecting foreign investment in specific sectors of the economy and overrule the above-mentioned provisions (Resolu- tion No. 51, of 1991, CONPES). Registration of capital with the Banco de la Republica entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital under specified conditions. Annual transfers of profits abroad and repatriation of capital is not restricted, but they may be tempo- rarily restricted if international reserve holdings of the Banco de la Republica fall below the equivalent of three months of imports. Colombian investment abroad should also be registered with the Banco de la Republica. Short-term foreign borrowing to finance any activ- ity is permitted. Foreign loans with maturities rang- ing from one day to five years were subject to a nonremunerated deposit requirement of 140 percent and 43 percent of the loan, respectively, up to March 15, 1996. On that date, this maturity range was changed from one day to three years. The deposits are held for a period corresponding to the loan maturities. Exempted from the deposit requirement are credits for imports of capital goods; short-term loans granted by BANCOLDEX to Colombian exporters up to a maximum of 12 months;6 credit card balances; loans destined for Colombian invest- 5Loans by financial entities for the importation of goods also re- quire registration. Public sector loans are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). 6BANCOLDEX is entitled to lend up to US$550 million under this regime. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 COLOMBIA ments abroad; and green coffee, coal, and oil pre- shipment financing.7 The limit on contractual interest rates of 2.5 percent over LIBOR or the U.S. prime rate remains in effect for the public sector. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authorization from the Superintendency of Values. For loans to the Gov- ernment, or those guaranteed by the Government, the following are also required: prior authorization from CONPES and from the Banco de la Republica, prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Com- mittee on Public Credit, and ex post approval from the President of the Republic. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that authorizes the initiation of negotiations. Foreign investments in the form of placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted with the approval of the National Planning Department. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trade- marks, or patents should be registered with INCOMEX for statistical purposes only. Colombian residents are authorized to maintain assets and earned income abroad. Gold Under Law No. 9 of January 17, 1991, Colombian residents are allowed to purchase, sell, hold, import, and export gold. The Banco de la Republica sells gold for domestic industrial use directly at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the London gold market of the previous day; this price is converted into pesos at the representative market exchange rate. The Banco de la Republica from time to time issues commemorative gold coins that are legal tender. Resi- dents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement January 26. Exchange houses were authorized to participate in the official foreign exchange market for selected types of transactions, subject to licensing by the Superintendency of Banks. Nonresident Accounts September 29. Nonresidents were permitted to hold domestic currency deposits in domestic finan- cial institutions. No registration with the Banco de la 7Up to a total of US$100 million for green coffee and up to US$200 million for coal and oil. These loans should be registered with the Banco de la Republica. Republica was required. Financial institutions were also required to include transactions in domestic currency deposit accounts in the quarterly report on transactions in foreign currency accounts submitted to the Banco de la Republica and the Superinten- dency of Banks. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The common external tariff of the countries of the Andean Pact, of which Colombia is a signatory, was introduced. March 17. Items of the tariff code defined as capital goods imports, whose delayed payment is exempt from the deposit requirement, were specified. August 18. The maximum time limit for payment of imports not subject to the deposit requirement was increased to six months from four months. Exports and Export Proceeds April 21. BANCOLDEX was authorized to increase the total amount of loans to exporters that may be exempted from the deposit requirement to a maximum of US$500 million from US$350 million. The maximum maturity was increased to one year from six months. June 16. The exemption from the deposit require- ment for prefinancing of coffee exports was limited to prefinancing contracted as of December 1994; previously, the exemption applied to prefinancing contracted as of January 1994. Private coffee export- ers were also permitted to use up to US$50 million of prefinancing authorized for the National Coffee Federation September 23. The amount of authorized export prefinancing by BANCOLDEX not subject to the deposit requirement was increased to US$550 mil- lion from US$500 million. Capital January 20. The range of external debt prepay- ments subject to a deposit requirement was widened. February 10. The deposit requirement to change the external holder of a credit in cases of spinoffs, mergers, liquidations, or concordats of enterprises was eliminated. September 7. A limit on the net foreign exchange position of financial intermediaries equal to 45 per- cent of net worth was established; (the limit was to be reduced to 30 percent as of January 1,1996) and a schedule was set up for phasing out the minimum required net foreign exchange position of 40 percent of the June 1991 level of liabilities by January 1,1996. November 10. The minimum required net foreign exchange position of banks and other financial insti- tutions was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 121 Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The withholding tax on foreign exchange receipts was reduced to 3 percent from 10 percent. Administration of Control January 1. Financial intermediaries were allowed to hold a net foreign exchange position equivalent to no more than 20 percent of their net worth (com- pared with 45 percent earlier). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the inter- vention currency, at the fixed rate of CF1 per F 0.0133. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF75 per F l. Exchange rates for other currencies are officially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is authorized by the Central Bank of the Comoros and is provided to traders by the commercial bank (the only authorized dealer) for up to three months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance and Budget super- vises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the commercial bank and the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be made through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Direc- torate-General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Economy and Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspon- dent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain goods is prohibited from all countries. The importation of other goods, except those originating from member countries of the European Union, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Invisibles payments to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when supporting docu- ments can be produced. These regulations apply to allowances for education, family maintenance, and medical treatment, as well as to remittances by for- eign workers of savings from their earnings. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries may take out the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any amount in other means of pay- ment. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 250,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is granted if supporting docu- mentation is provided. Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any means of pay- ment issued abroad in their name without providing documentary justification. Other cases are autho- rized pursuant to the Exchange Regulations when supporting documents can be produced. Repatriation of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investment is authorized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 123 Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, exports to any destination are free of licensing requirements. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export transactions must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are normally permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any applicable exchange control requirements) are maintained over borrowing abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to approval of the underlying transactions, not to pay- ments or receipts. Proceeds from Invisibles Gold Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered to the authorized bank within one month of the due date or date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes and coins. Capital Capital flows between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but trans- fers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. Payments to all countries are subject to a commis- sion of 0.75 percent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this commission are pay- ments of the state, the Postal Administration, the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholar- ships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Congo. For- eign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office is subject to a commission of 0.5 percent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 100. An additional com- mission of 0.25 percent is levied on all payments to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The Congo accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are ]The CFA f r anc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Bank of Central A f r ican States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Came- roon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Equa tor ial Guinea, and Gabon. subject to control. (Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo.) The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget who has delegated approval authority to the General Directorate. All exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Commerce. The sys- tem of import licenses has been replaced by a system of ex post declarations for all but 13 products (Decree No. 88/414, May 28,1988). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because the Congo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the issuing zone, such banknotes received by foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazaville may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments The imports regime is, in principle, liberal; only certain items require import licenses. An annual import program classifies imports by zones: (1) the countries of the Central African Customs and Eco- nomic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other Opera- tions Account countries; (4) European Union (EU) countries other than France; and (5) all remaining countries. Thirteen product items under this pro- 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 125 gram require licenses, and others are subject to ex post declaration. The quotas for non-EU countries may be used to import goods originating in any non- Operations Account country. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank and require a visa from the Foreign Trade Directorate and the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. In April 1994, a new tariff structure was intro- duced in the context of the UDEAC tax and customs reform with a view to rationalizing protection rates by narrowing dispersion while eliminating quantita- tive restrictions. The common duty rate of the UDEAC member countries was reduced to 5 percent for basic necessities, to 10 percent for raw materials and capital goods, to 20 percent for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and to 30 percent for products requiring special protection. Customs duties on imports from UDEAC member countries were set at preferential rates equivalent to 20 percent of the cor- responding common external tariff rate. All imports may be insured with any insurance company. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely, provided that they have been declared and are made through an authorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are permitted with the authorization of the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Residents traveling for tourist or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment instruments in French francs. The allow- ances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tour- ist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2.5 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 mil- lion a trip; (3) for official travel, the equivalent of expenses paid and CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 2 million a trip; and (4) for medical expenses abroad, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 2.5 million a trip. Allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident finan- cial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, is limited to the ceilings indi- cated above for tourist and business travel. How- ever, these regulations are administered liberally and bona fide requests for allowances in excess of these limits are normally granted. Returning resi- dent travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender within eight days all means of pay- ment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their dis- posal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been pur- chased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re- exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires doc- umentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the trav- eler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Transfers by residents of amounts smaller than CFAF 500,000 to nonmember coun- tries of the franc zone are subject to simple declara- tion, and those exceeding CFAF 500,000 require prior authorization. Transfers to nonmember coun- tries by nonresidents living in the Congo for less than one year are subject to authorization. Mem- bers of diplomatic missions, employees of interna- tional organizations, employees of companies operating in the Congo, government employees, and members of liberal professions are exempt from this regulation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, all exports require an exchange com- mitment, but most exports to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office du cafe et du cacao and Office des cultures vivrieres) and by the Congolese Marketing Office for Timber (Office con- golais du bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their desti- nation. Export proceeds must be surrendered within eight days of the due date. All export transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free, although ex post declarations are required. Such movements to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent in addition to the 0.75 percent commission. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capi- tal transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Economy and Finance; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. For- eign direct investments in the Congo3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Economy and Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed- economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days. (Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in the Congo requires prior authori- zation from the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guar- antee from the Congolese Government; and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. However, loans contracted by regis- tered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF10 million for any one borrower, the interest is no higher than 5 percent, and the term is at least two years, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special authoriza- tion is obtained from the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign currency granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans whose total amount outstanding does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the General Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Congo. Including those involving the transfer between nonresidents of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 127 Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 10, 1992, a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The code provides for four cat- egories of preferential treatment. and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BEAC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs decla- ration. There are no official exports of gold. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29,1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance is required. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Congo accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon, the external value of which is determined by commercial banks and other financial institutions in the interbank market.1 A tax of 15 percent calculated on the average daily spread between buying and selling rates applies to all foreign exchange transac- tions in the interbank market. The Government and public sector institutions conduct foreign exchange transactions with the State Commercial Banks and the Central Bank. These operations are carried out at the official reference exchange rate, which is calcu- lated at the close of each business day as the weighted average of the exchange rates used in the market during the day. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling bank rates for the U.S. dollar were C 194.43 and C 195.37, respectively, per $1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risks operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Costa Rica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Febru- ary 1,1965. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are issued by the Central Bank. Institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange are the Central Bank, the state commercial banks, private banks, and other nonbank financial institutions authorized by the Central Bank and under the purview of the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SUGEF). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments obligations of the nonfinancial public sector. Prescription of Currency Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in U.S. dollars. Trade payments to Central America may be made in U.S. dollars or in local currencies. foreign exchange trading occurs in the organized electronic foreign exchange market (MONED) among authorized traders and in which the Central Bank carries out its intervention opera- tions. Foreign exchange trading also takes place directly between authorized institutions outside the MONED. 128 All payments for imports may be made freely. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque), issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Customs tariff rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 20 percent. In addition to any applicable customs tariff, the following taxes are levied on imports: (1) a sales tax of 15 percent, from which cer- tain essential items are exempt; and (2) a selective consumption tax at rates varying from zero to 75 percent, depending on the essential nature of the item. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. With- holding taxes of 15 percent are levied on remittances of dividends and profits. Remittances of interest abroad are subject to a 15 percent withholding tax, except for remittances to foreign banks or to their financial entities recognized by the Central Bank as institutions normally engaged in international trans- actions, including payments to foreign suppliers for commodity imports. Interest on government bor- rowing abroad is exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds are not subject to surrender requirements. However, proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days before the end of each fiscal year. Exporters of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America are entitled to receive freely negotiable tax credit certificates (CATs) at the following rates based on the f.o.b. value: 15 percent for exports to the United States, Puerto Rico, and Europe; and 20 percent for exports to Canada.2 Licenses are required for exports of goods such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of non- ferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); sugar (from the Agricultural Indus- trial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, ipecacuanha root, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from 2CATs ceased to be issued to new exporters af ter December 31, 1992. Ex is t ing exporters continue to benefit from the CATs consis- tent with their specific contractual arrangements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 129 the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Econ- omy and Commerce); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); textiles; flowers, lumber, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agricul- ture and Livestock); and coffee (from the Coffee Institute); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside the Central American area and Panama; taxes are levied on traditional exports and, in some cases, are graduated in line with interna- tional prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions but must be repatriated within 90 days of the end of each fiscal year. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers, and capital transactions between residents and nonresi- dents are permitted. The National Budget Authority3 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the central Government, decentral- ized agencies, and state enterprises. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its 3Composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Plan- ning, and the President of the Central Bank. Board. Natural and juridical persons may buy or sell, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological treasures, pursuant to Law No. 6703 of December 18, 1981), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. Licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank may sell unrefined gold to artistic or professional users or to enterprises that export jewelry. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement May 30. The Central Bank announced that the spread between the buying and selling rates of authorized banks and financial institutions cannot exceed 0.56 percent. November 28. Spreads between the buying and selling rates can be freely set by authorized banks and financial institutions. A tax of 15 percent calcu- lated on the average daily spread between the buy- ing and selling rates is applied to all foreign trade transactions in the interbank market. All other taxes (transfers to some public enterprises) collected through the exchange system were eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds May 24. The surrender requirement rate for pro- ceeds from exports was reduced to 20 percent. All commercial banks and financial institutions autho- rized to operate in the interbank market were required to transfer to the Central Bank 34 percent of their purchases of foreign exchange. November 28. Surrender and transfer requirements were eliminated. Exchange proceeds from goods (and services exports and tourism) must be repatri- ated within 90 days of the end of each fiscal year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rates in the Paris exchange market for the curren- cies concerned and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies no com- mission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU).2 Banks and the postal system levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU; commissions must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the exchange control measures of Cote d'lvoire do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries and subject to the exchange control measures listed hereafter. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the trans- action must be domiciled with an authorized inter- mediary, and goods must be shipped within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward exchange cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated essential commodities; no renewal of cover is possible. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is permitted, with prior authorization from the Directorate of the Treasury, Monetary and Banking Affa irs in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, only for payments for imports of goods and only for the currency stipu- TThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAEMU are sub- ject to the f lat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements be- tween agencies of the BCEAO. lated in the commercial contract. There are no offi- cial schemes for currency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for debt servicing. Cote dTvoire accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on June 1,1996. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of the Treasury, Monetary and Banking Affa irs in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import licenses for a short list of controlled products (Decree No. 93- 313 of March 11,1993) are issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotion in the Ministry of Com- merce. At the end of 1995, a total of 25 products were subject to import licenses. Arrears are maintained with respect to the exter- nal debt-servicing obligations of the central Government. Prescription of Currency Because Cote d'lvoire is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts Because the BCEAO has suspended the repur- chase of BCEAO banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, foreign accounts in francs may not be credited or debited with BCEAO 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 131 banknotes. In addition, they may not show an over- d ra ft position without prior authorization. Imports and Import Payments Under the current regulations, all imports are clas- sified into the following three categories: (1) goods requiring prior authorization or the approval of ministries; (2) goods subject to quantitative or other restrictions requiring licenses issued by the Director- ate of External Trade Promotions; and (3) freely importable goods. Quantitative or other limits for goods in the sec- ond category are set each year by the Minister of Industry and Commerce in light of market condi- tions and local production, and following consulta- tion with the Competitiveness Committee. With certain specific exceptions (e.g., diplomatic imports and used vehicles), all unrestricted imports with an f.o.b. value exceeding CFAF 3 million are subject to a preshipment inspection to verify their price, quan- tity, and quality; for values between CFAF 1.5 mil- lion and CFAF 3 million, imports may be subject to random inspection. For all imports (except those with prior authorization) whose f.o.b. value exceeds CFAF 500,000, an import information declaration for statistical purposes is also required. A maximum tariff rate of 35 percent has been in effect since January 1994. A statistical tax of 2.5 per- cent of the c.i.f. value is levied on all imports. Imports from member countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are exempt from the surcharges. All import operations valued at more than CFAF 500,000 conducted with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank; transac- tions of lower value must also be domiciled with an authorized bank if a f inanc ial transaction is to be under taken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened, and only on the due da te of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Since June 15, 1981, foreign exchange for import payments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or when the required down payment is made. trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted freely when the underlying transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than the CFA banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be com- bined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and authorized by the respective ministers of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, when travel- ing to countries that are not members of the WAEMU, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. Non- resident travelers may freely re-export means of payment, other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in their name, subject to documentation that they used funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or other foreign exchange to purchase the means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank- notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either their importation or their pur- chase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of non- resident deposits lodged in local banks. Payments for Invisibles Exports and Export Proceeds Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries must be approved. Payments for invisibles related to All exports are free of restrictions, with the excep- tion of certain metals, including precious metals and gems, the exportation of which requires prior autho- rization, and the export of timber, which is prohib- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 COTE D'lVOIRE ited except for a small quota pending a review of environmental and taxation issues. Exports of ivory (above a minimum weight) and certain types of tropical wood are prohibited. Exports require a cus- toms declaration but not a license. Exports of lumber are subject to quantitative quotas allocated through auction. Exports of cocoa and coffee are subject to a specific unitary export tax and can be effected only by exporters authorized by the Price Stabilization Fund. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries, including those in the Operations Account area, must be received within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the cur- rency of settlement and of the country of destina- tion, export receipts must be collected and repatriated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of des- tination, all export transactions valued at more than CFAF 1 million must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surren- dered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must surrender any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declaration to customs upon entry. Capital Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls, in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply, are maintained over borrowing abroad by the private sector; over foreign inward direct investment; over all outward direct investment in foreign countries; and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire. Such operations, as well as issues by Ivoirien companies, require prior autho- rization from the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government of Cote d'lvoire; and (2) foreign shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote d'lvoire has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAEMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are also maintained over the solicit- ing of funds for deposit with foreign natural persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over public- ity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning.3 Foreign direct investments in Cote d'lvoire must be authorized in advance by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning.4 As from June 15, 1981, at least 75 percent of investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire had to be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquida- tion of direct and other investments in Cote d'lvoire or abroad must also be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether Ivoirien investments abroad or foreign investments in Cote d'lvoire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each oper- ation. (Direct investments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) In addition, the BCEAO subjects commercial banks' foreign exchange positions to dis- cretionary controls for prudential reasons. These restrictions apply to all correspondent accounts, including those located in France, Monaco, and the Operation Account countries. Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Cote d'lvoire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Cote d'lvoire. Including those made in Cote d'lvoire by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cote d'lvoire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 133 Borrowing by residents from nonresidents must be authorized in advance by the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Cote d'lvoire, or loans approved by international trading houses to finance international trade transactions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above whose total outstanding amount, including the new bor- rowing, does not exceed CFAF50 million for any one borrower and whose annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was sub- ject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Under the investment code introduced in 1984, special incentives are provided for foreign and domestic investments in certain priority sectors and priority geographical areas. The incentives include exemption from customs duties and ta r i f fs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for investment projects, provided that no equiva- lent item is produced in Cote d'lvoire. In add i t ion, all such investments are exempt for a specified period, depending on the investment sector or area, from corporate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption covers 100 percent of applicable tax up to the fourth-to-last year of the exemption period and is reduced progressively to 75 percent of the tax in the third-to-last year, 50 percent in the second-to-last year, and 25 percent in the last year. Imports of raw materials for which no equivalents are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire/ and dispose of gold in any form in Cote d'lvoire. Imports and exports of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning; authorization is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments March 1. Quantitative restrictions on imports of coffee, tobacco, used sacks, and cloth made of syn- thetic or artificial fibers were eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds September 6. Exports of timber were prohibited by a decree pending the review of environmental and taxation issues. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Cote d'lvoire accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Section 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA (Position as of February 29,1996) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Croatia is the Kuna, the external value of which is determined in the interbank market. The exchange rates in the interbank market are determined by authorized banks that transact with each other at freely negotiated rates. The National Bank of Croatia may set intervention exchange rates, which it applies in transactions with banks outside the interbank market for purposes of smoothing undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. On December 31, 1995, the average interbank mar- ket rate for the U.S. dollar was HRK 5,3161 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Croatia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 29,1995. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are governed by the Law on the Foreign Exchange System, Foreign Exchange Operations, and Gold Transactions, which was enacted on October 7,1993. The National Bank formulates and administers exchange rate policy and may issue foreign exchange regulations under this law. A Trade Law, coordinated with domestic trade and foreign trade legislation, was passed on January 31, 1996, and came into force on February 17, 1996. Companies wishing to engage in foreign trade must register with the commercial courts. The representative offices of foreign companies must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Foreign exchange transactions must be con- ducted through authorized banks; currently 48 commercial banks in Croatia are licensed to con- duct foreign exchange transactions. Restricted licenses are given to those banks that are autho- rized to open accounts for resident na tural persons and may buy and sell banknotes and checks (cur- rently nine banks). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents and nonresidents may be effected in any convertible currency. Resident natural and juridical persons may, in principle, open and operate foreign exchange accounts only in Croatia. However, the National Bank has the authority to allow resident juridical persons to keep foreign exchange in accounts with foreign banks in order to cover the costs of business operations and meet the requirement of regular for- eign trade activities abroad. The law also makes spe- cific provisions for resident juridical persons engaged in capital project construction abroad to maintain accounts with foreign banks, subject to a license issued by the National Bank. Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts with fully licensed banks in Croatia. These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad for conversion into domestic currency; reconversion of domestic cur- rency into a foreign currency is permitted. With spe- cial permission from the National Bank, juridical persons may credit these accounts with foreign ban- knotes up to the limit of $20,000. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may open accounts in domestic currency with the pro- ceeds from sales of goods and services or with for- eign exchange transferred from abroad. They may purchase foreign exchange with funds held in these accounts without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions. Pending the introduction of a new import regime, the product classification of the 1994 import regime is main- tained, with a free list (LB), a list of items subject to quotas and a list of items subject to ad hoc licensing (D). Items on the free list account for about 96 percent of the total tariff items. Of the restricted items, only about 2 percent of imports are subject to licensing and about 1 percent to quotas. The Ministry of Econ- omy, in consultation with the Chamber of Com- merce, administers the quotas. List D includes items whose importation is controlled by international agreement for noneconomic reasons (such as arms, gold, illegal drugs and narcotics, and artistic and historic work). The importation of these items is 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 135 allowed on a case-by-case basis and for specific purposes. Imports are subject to a customs tariffs of up to 18 percent (compared with up to 25 percent in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) plus a tax of up to 10 percent, and a customs admin- istration fee of 1 percent. The exemption for duty- free imports by travelers is the equivalent of $100. Goods imported by travelers and postal shipments up to a value of $500 are subject to a simplified cus- toms procedure with a unified tariff rate of 8 percent. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes are applied. Returning citizens may bring into the country household effects duty free in an amount that is relative to the period spent abroad without restrictions, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance on a case-by-case basis. Under certain conditions, goods imported by nonresidents for investment purposes are exempt from import duties. Also, raw materials and intermediate prod- ucts used in the production of exports are exempt from all import duties and taxes, except the 1 percent customs fee, provided that the value added of the export product is at least 30 percent of the value of the imported items and that export pro- ceeds are received in convertible currency. Payments for authorized imports by juridical persons are not restricted. Advance payments for imports are permitted, where down payments are required by suppliers in accordance with customary international practices. eign currency accounts or purchased from banks for travel expenses. In both cases, the National Bank may allow higher amounts to be taken out on a case- by-case basis. The exportation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions. In principle, exports are free of restrictions except for certain products for which permits must be obtained (list D products: e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects); sev- eral basic foodstuffs to ensure adequate domestic supplies; and high-quality wood. Export proceeds must be collected and repatriated in full to Croatia within 90 days of the date of expor- tation; this period may be extended with the permis- sion of the National Bank. If payment terms in excess of 90 days have been agreed with foreign importers, the credit arrangement must be regis- tered with the National Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from services are, in principle, subject to the same regulations as those applying to merchan- dise exports. The importation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person. Payments for Invisibles Capital Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports by juridical persons may be made freely. Payments of leasing fees are permitted provided that temporary imports have been registered with the Customs Office. Natural persons may also pur- chase foreign exchange in the interbank market for the payment of goods and services abroad and for deposit in a foreign exchange account for the pur- pose of fu tu re payments. Resident juridical persons (including tradesmen, natural persons engaging in independent activities) may purchase foreign exchange only for authorized payments abroad, except to make payments for activities related to sci- entific, humanitarian, cultural, or sports events. Pay- ments of royalties, insurance, and legal obligations and contracting of life and casualty insurance poli- cies with foreign companies are also permitted. Resident natural persons may take out of the country foreign currency equivalent to DM 1,000. An additional amount equivalent up to DM 2,000 may be taken out, provided that it is withdrawn from for- Resident juridical persons, including commercial banks, may borrow abroad. They are required to reg- ister the loans contracted, including commercial credits, with the National Bank. Financial credits may be extended to nonresidents by resident juridi- cal persons, including tradesmen and natural per- sons engaging in independent activities, only if these credits are financed from profits or credit obtained from abroad. Natural persons are permit- ted to obtain loans from nonresidents in domestic or foreign currency. The foreign exchange positions of commercial banks are limited to 30 percent of the bank's capital. Foreign direct investment by nonresidents may take the form of joint ventures or full ownership and must be registered with the commercial courts. Repatriation of capital and transfers abroad of prof- its are not restricted. In principle, domestic and for- eign investment is treated equally (e.g., "national treatment"). If the foreign equity capital participa- tion exceeds 20 percent, inputs used in the project ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 CROATIA are exempt from import duties. The profit tax rate is uniform at 25 percent. Foreign direct investment abroad by residents must be registered with the Ministry of Economy within a 30-day period com- mencing from signature of the contract. Such invest- ment must generally be undertaken through loans abroad or through reinvestment of profits. Inward portfolio investment is not restricted, except in cen- tral bank short-term securities in the primary mar- ket. In general, outward portfolio investment is restricted. Nonresident natural persons may acquire real estate in Croatia through inheritance as long as their country of residence extends reciprocal treatment to residents of Croatia. Nonresident natural persons not engaged in economic activities in Croatia may purchase real estate only under the same conditions. Nonresident natural or juridical persons engaged in economic activities in Croatia may also purchase real estate under these conditions and may sell it to resident or nonresident juridical persons. In princi- ple, residents may acquire real estate abroad on the basis of reciprocity of treatment, but in practice, they are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market for this purpose; the use of bal- ances in foreign exchange accounts for this purpose is also prohibited. Gold The National Bank may export gold and gold coins without any restrictions. Unprocessed gold may be exported with the approval of the National Bank. Gold coins may be exported by authorized com- mercial banks, with the approval of the National Bank. Importation of gold is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Economy. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement May 29. Croatia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 Imports and Import Payments February 17. The Trade Law became effective. Capital January 1. The Law on Insurance and Sale of Secu- rities came into force. January 3. The Law on Investment Funds came into force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of March 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound, the external value of which is pegged to a basket based on the European Currency Unit (ECU) at ECU 1.7086 per £C 1, within margins of ±2.25 per- cent around the ECU central rate. On December 29, 1995, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.4549 and £C 0.4567, respectively, per $1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the ECU, the deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound sterling. These rates are subject to change throughout the day. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign curren- cies1 on the basis of market rates in international money market centers. Subject to certain limita- tions, including a limit on spreads between the buy- ing and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are allowed to trade in the forward market at rates that may be freely negoti- ated with their customers. For U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, however, forward margins may not d iffer by more than the premiums or discounts that are applied by the Central Bank for cover for a similar period. Authorized dealers are allowed to purchase forward cover from the Central Bank at prevailing rates or to conduct forward operations between two foreign currencies for cover in one of the two currencies. The Central Bank offers autho- rized dealers facilities for forward purchases of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for exports for up to 24 months. Cover for imports is normally provided for up to 6 months. When jus t if ied (for example, payments for imports of raw materials or capital goods), rates are quoted for up to 15 months. Forward contracts must be based on genuine com- mercial commitments. Forward cover may also be provided for up to 12 months to residents for specific financial commitments, and for up to 15 months for incoming tourism. 'Au s t r a l i an dollars, Au s t r i an schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- d ian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Cyprus accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on January 9,1991. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank in cooperation with authorized dealers. Au tho r i ty to approve applications for the alloca- tion of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Eco- nomic sanctions pursuant to United Nations Secu- rity Council resolutions are administered by the Central Bank and relevant government depart- ments. Such sanctions are in effect against Iraq, Libya, and the UNITA organization in Angola. There are also certain restrictions still in effect in relation to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro), in accordance with the UN Security Council resolution 1022 (1995), and an embargo on deliveries of weapons and military equipment to the constituent republics of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in accordance with the UN Security Council resolu- tion 1021 (1995). Under Executive Board Decision No. 144~(52/51), the Central Bank had notified the Fund on October 7, 1993, of restrictions imposed previously against the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia/Montenegro) pursuant to earlier UN Security Council resolutions. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an external account, or in any foreign currency (i.e., other than the Cyprus pound); the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an external account, or in any foreign currency Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open and maintain with authorized dealers nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated external accounts, or foreign currency accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other external accounts or foreign currency accounts), proceeds from sales of any foreign currency by nonresidents (including declared banknotes), and the entire proceeds, 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 CYPRUS including capital appreciation, from the sale of an investment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with autho- rized payments in Cyprus pounds. External accounts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for remittances abroad, for transfers to other exter- nal accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for payments in cash (Cyprus pounds) in Cyprus. Authorized dealers are allowed to grant medium- and long-term foreign currency loans to nonresi- dents of up to 20 percent of their deposit liabilities in foreign currencies. In addition, they are allowed to grant short-term loans and credits to offshore companies of up to 10 percent of their deposit liabil- ities in foreign currencies. Companies registered or incorporated in Cyprus that are accorded nonresident status (generally des- ignated as offshore companies) by the Central Bank as well as their nonresident employees may main- tain external accounts and foreign currency accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local dis- bursement accounts for meeting their payments in Cyprus. Resident persons and firms dealing with transit trade or engaged in manufacturer-exporter activities or in the hotel business may open and maintain foreign currency accounts subject to cer- tain requirements. Residents dealing with transit trade may deposit up to 95 percent of sale proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for the value of traded goods. Residents engaged in manu- facturer-exporter activities may deposit up to 50 percent of export proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for imports of raw materials used in production. Both transit traders and manu- facturers-exporters are, however, required at the end of each year to convert into Cyprus pounds any balances in excess of the amount that is necessary for payments of the value of traded goods or raw materials during the following three months. Resi- dent hoteliers may deposit in foreign currency amounts that they need to make imminent install- ment payments on foreign currency loans. Cypriot repatriates may keep in foreign currency, or external accounts with banks in Cyprus, or in accounts with banks abroad, all of their foreign cur- rency holdings and earnings accruing from proper- ties they own abroad. Resident persons temporarily working abroad may maintain their foreign cur- rency earnings in foreign currency or external accounts with banks in Cyprus, or in accounts with banks abroad. Other residents apart from those referred to in the preceding two paragraphs may hold foreign cur- rency accounts with prior approval of the Central Bank, on a case-by-case basis. Blocked accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in their entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government- guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds is freely transferable to the nonresident bene- ficiary or may be credited to an external account or foreign currency account. In addition to income, up to £C 50,000 in principal may be released annually from blocked funds for transfer outside Cyprus. Funds can also be released from blocked accounts to meet reasonable expenses in Cyprus of the account holder and his or her family, including educational expenses, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, payments for the acquisition of immovable property in Cyprus, and any other amounts autho- rized by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Nearly all imports are free of licensing require- ments. An import license is required for certain commodities prescribed by the Minister of Com- merce, Industry, and Tourism. The list of commodi- ties currently subject to import licensing includes fresh beef, cheese, and certain chemicals. Exchange is allocated freely and without restric- tion through authorized dealers to pay for imports, provided that documentary evidence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Remittances for advance payments before ship- ment require the prior approval of the Central Bank if they exceed £C 50,000. Authorized dealers are allowed to sell to departing residents of Cyprus for- eign exchange up to £C 20,000 for purchases and for the importation of goods into Cyprus; foreign exchange in excess of this limit may be sold to departing residents with the approval of the Central Bank. For advance import payments exceeding £C 20,000,10 percent of the amount must be depos- ited with the Central Bank as a guarantee, unless the foreign purchaser provides a bank guarantee for the return of the advance payment in case the ship- ment is not carried out. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the approval of the Central Bank, but approval author- ity for certain types of payments has been delegated to authorized dealers. Profits, dividends, and inter- est from approved foreign investments may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 139 transferred abroad without limitation, af ter pay- ment of any due charges and taxes. Insurance pre- miums owed to foreign insurance companies may be remitted after all contingencies have been deducted. Nonresidents who are temporarily employed in Cyprus by resident firms or individu- als and are paid in local currency may deposit with authorized dealers up to £C 500 of their monthly remuneration in external or foreign currency accounts, the balance of which may be freely trans- ferred abroad without reference to the Central Bank; deposits or transfers of greater amounts need the specific approval of the Central Bank. Allowances are granted to residents for study abroad at colleges, universities, or other institutions of higher education, and certain lower-level institu- tions of learning. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living, which is reviewed yearly. The cur- rent annual allowance for living expenses for stud- ies in Western European countries, excluding Greece, is £C 5,500; for Greece, £C 3,600; for Canada and the United States, £C 6,600; for Australia, £C 4,000; and for all other countries, £C 3,600. There is no limit on the remittance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. Authorized dealers are allowed, without any ref- erence to the Central Bank, to sell to resident travel- ers foreign exchange up to £C 1,000 a person a trip for tourist travel; the Central Bank approves appli- cations for allocations of additional foreign exchange without limitation to cover genuine travel expenses. The allowance for business travel is not fixed but depends on the length of stay abroad. Authorized dealers may provide up to £C 150 a day with a maximum of £C 1,500 a trip, or £C 80 a day with a maximum of £C 800 a trip if the traveler holds an international business card (see below); additional amounts may be granted with the approval of the Central Bank on proof of need. Authorized dealers may also sell to departing resi- dents foreign exchange up to £C 5,000 for medical expenses abroad; unlimited additional amounts are provided with the approval of the Central Bank. Authorized dealers may issue personal cards valid abroad to any resident, except for residents studying abroad or temporarily living abroad for any reason. These cards, which are designated as international personal cards, may be used abroad for payments to hotels and restaurants, payments for transportation expenses, payments to doctors, clin- ics, or hospitals, and unlimited international tele- phone calls, as well as payments abroad or from Cyprus up to £C 300 for each transaction for the fol- lowing purposes: student examination fees, sub- scription to professional bodies or societies, fees for enrollment in professional or educational seminars or conferences, and hotel reservation fees. Authorized dealers may also issue company cards valid abroad (designated as international business cards) to resident businesspeople and professionals who are involved in international trade of goods or services and travel abroad on business. Moreover, authorized dealers may issue special personal cards valid abroad (designated as special international per- sonal cards) to certain categories of residents, such as public officials and university professors. Holders of special international personal cards and holders of international business cards are entitled to charge the following, in addition to the expenses allowed for holders of international personal cards: cash with- drawals up to £C 100 a trip and any other expenses up to £C 300 a trip, as well as mail orders of books (in the case of special international personal cards) or books and equipment for the company (in the case of international business cards) up to £C 1,000. Authorized dealers may approve, without refer- ence to the Central Bank, applications by resident travel agents to pay foreign travel agents and hotels up to £C 10,000 a trip. The Central Bank approves applications for higher amounts to cover genuine expenses without limitation. Authorized dealers may carry out, without prior reference to the Cen- tral Bank, payments of fares and freights by order of resident airlines, agents of foreign airlines, shipping agents, or other resident transport companies in favor of foreign airlines, shipping or other transport companies; if the payment exceeds £C 5,000, docu- mentary evidence must be subsequently submitted to the Central Bank. On leaving Cyprus, resident travelers may take out up to £C 100 in Cypriot banknotes. There is no limit on the amount of foreign banknotes that departing residents may take out of the country as part of any of their foreign exchange allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Cypriot or foreign banknotes they declared on arrival (see text under Proceeds from Invisibles). Nonresidents may also export up to $1,000 in Cyp- riot or foreign banknotes that they imported, even if these notes were not declared on arrival. In addi- tion, nonresident travelers may take out up to £C 100 in Cypriot banknotes. Furthermore, autho- rized dealers may convert up to £C 100 into foreign currency for departing nonresidents and are per- mitted to issue to departing nonresidents, as well as to departing resident employees of offshore compa- nies, any amount of foreign banknotes against external funds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 CYPRUS Exports and Export Proceeds All exports whose value exceeds £C 1,000 are subject to exchange control monitoring to ensure the repatriation of the sale proceeds. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers without delay. Exports of potatoes and carrots are carried out by the respective marketing boards, and exports of wheat, barley, and maize are carried out by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized dealer. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount of Cypriot or foreign banknotes. Non- residents entering Cyprus should declare to cus- toms any Cypriot or foreign banknotes that they plan to re-export, or to deposit with authorized dealers, or to use to purchase immovable property or goods to export. Capital Capital transfers abroad require authorization from the Central Bank. Direct investment abroad by residents is permitted, provided that the proposed investments will promote exports of goods and ser- vices or will benefit the Cypriot economy. Outward portfolio investment is permitted only for the fol- lowing residents: insurance companies (up to 20 percent of their trust fund); Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily working abroad who hold foreign currency or external accounts; resident employees of multinational enterprises who partici- pate in the employee stock purchase plan offered to them by their employer; and investment companies that have been admitted to the official stock exchange of Cyprus (which started to operate on March 29, 1996). These investment companies are allowed to invest abroad up to 20 percent of their capital. Investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which, in considering applications, gives due regard to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings or earnings, the introduc- tion of know-how, and, in general, the benefits accruing to the national economy. Foreigners may own up to 100 percent of the capital of enterprises engaged in the manufac ture of goods exclusively for export. Foreign participation of up to 49 percent is allowed for manufacture of new products, certain tourist activities, and other industrial projects. Inward investment is particularly welcome in projects that upgrade the tourist product (such as marinas, golf courses, and theme parks). In sectors of specific treatment, such as banking and finance, applications are examined on a case-by-case basis. Foreign direct investment is discouraged in satu- rated sectors, such as trading, real estate develop- ment, travel agencies, restaurants, and local transportation. Foreign participation in inward portfolio investment in listed company securities is permitted up to a limit of 30 percent generally and 40 percent in investment companies and mutual funds. Foreigners are allowed to purchase govern- ment securities in domestic currency. Annual profits and proceeds from the liquidation of approved for- eign investments, including capital gains, may be repatriated in full at any time after payment of taxes.2 Commercial credits from abroad with a maturity of less than 200 days and commercial credit from Cyprus with a maturity of less than 180 days may be negotiated freely. With the permission of the Council of Ministers, nonresident aliens may acquire immovable property in Cyprus for use as a residence or holiday home, or as office or factory in the case of an authorized direct investment. They must, however, purchase such property with for- eign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are transferable abroad up to the original purchase price of the property; the remaining balance is transferable at an annual rate of £C 50,000, plus interest. The same treatment is accorded to nonresi- dent Cypriots purchasing a holiday home in Cyprus. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nation- als) who take up residence outside Cyprus may immediately transfer abroad up to £C 50,000 for each household; any excess amount is deposited in a blocked account and released at the rate of £C 50,000 a year. The transfer abroad of funds from estates and intestacies and from the sale of real estate, other than that referred to in the preceding paragraph, is limited to £C 50,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a blocked account and also released at the rate of £C 50,000 a year. Interest earned on a blocked account can be freely trans- ferred abroad. Transactions in foreign securities owned by resi- dents require prior permission from the Central Bank. In principle, all securities held abroad by resi- dents are subject to registration. 2The Central Bank and the Government are currently review- ing their policy as regards nonresident investments in Cyprus, w i th the aim of implementing a far more liberal policy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 141 Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic collection purposes. Resi- dents other than monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold bullion at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold bullion only for the purpose of dis- posing of it to industrial users. The exportation of gold coins or bullion requires the permission of the Central Bank. Changes During 1995 Payments for Invisibles March 1. The amount of foreign exchange that authorized dealers may sell to departing residents, for tourist travel abroad, without reference to the Central Bank was increased from £C 750 to £C 1,000 a person a trip. April 6. The Central Bank empowered authorized dealers to carry out, without subsequent reference to the Central Bank, payments of fares and freights by order of resident airlines, agents of foreign air- lines, shipping agents, or other resident transport companies in favor of foreign airlines, shipping or other transport companies up to £C 5,000. May 26. Nonresident travelers were allowed to export any amount of Cypriot banknotes they imported and declared to customs on arrival. Non- resident travelers were allowed to take out up to the equivalent of $1,000 in Cypriot or foreign banknotes that they imported, even if they did not declare them on arrival. In addition, both resident and non- resident travelers were allowed to take out up to £C 100 in Cypriot banknotes; previously, the amount of Cypriot banknotes that a resident or non- resident traveler could export was limited to £C 50. Furthermore, authorized dealers were allowed to send any amount of Cypriot banknotes to foreign banks without reference to the Central Bank. June 13. Authorized dealers were allowed to approve, without reference to the Central Bank, applications by resident travel agents to pay foreign travel agents and hotel for expenses up to £C 10,000 a trip. July 1. The amount of foreign exchange that authorized dealers may sell to departing residents for medical expenses abroad without reference to the Central Bank was increased from £C 3,000 to £C 5,000. The Central Bank empowered authorized dealers to issue personal cards valid abroad to any resident, except for residents studying abroad or temporarily living abroad for any reason. These cards, which are designated as international personal cards, may be used abroad for payments to hotels and restaurants, payments for transportation expenses, payments to doctors, clinics or hospitals, and international phone calls, without limit, as well as payments abroad or from Cyprus up to £C 300 for each trans- action for the following purposes: examination fees, subscriptions to professional bodies or societies, fees for enrollment in professional or educational seminars or conferences, and hotel reservation fees. July 10. The amount that may be paid through special international personal cards or international business cards for mail orders of books or equip- ment was increased from £C 300 to £C 1,000. November 20. The amount that residents may remit through authorized dealers to nonresidents (e.g., relations) as financial assistance or gift, without ref- erence to the Central Bank, was increased from £C 100 to £C 200 every six months. Prior approval of the Central Bank is required for higher amounts. Proceeds from Invisibles May 26. Restrictions on the import of Cypriot banknotes were abolished. Changes During 1996 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Most quantitative import restrictions were abolished; specifically, the number of com- modities for which an import license is required was drastically reduced. Capital March 29. Investment companies admitted to the official stock exchange of Cyprus were allowed to invest abroad up to 20 percent of their capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech Koruna. Its external value is determined on the basis of a basket consisting of the deutsche mark (approximately 65 percent) and the U.S. dollar (approximately 35 percent). The Czech National Bank quotes daily official exchange rates of the koruna against two currencies, the deutsche mark and the U.S. dollar. The National Bank may also intervene in the foreign exchange market according to rules specified in its relevant official announce- ments. On December 31,1995, the middle rate of the koruna in terms of the U.S. dollar was Kc! 26.602 The National Bank announces daily foreign exchange rates for 21 other convertible currencies,1 including the Slovak koruna, European currency units (ECUs), and SDKs. Up to February 28,1996, the foreign exchange rate of the Czech koruna, quoted by the National Bank was allowed to fluctuate within band limits of ±0.5 percent around the theo- retical central rate; since then, the band has been ±7.5 percent. Forward foreign exchange transactions are permitted. The Czech Republic accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on October 1,1995. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the National Bank are responsible for the administration of exchange con- trols and regulations in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the Ministry of Finance exercises authority, governmental credits (central and local authorities), budgetary organizations, and state funds. The National Bank exercises authority over all other agents. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments in effect. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Slovak koruny, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 342 Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are no distinctions between resident and nonresident accounts. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or entrepreneur. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, such as uranic ore, its concentrates, coal, poisons, mili- tary materials, firearms and ammunition, and nar- cotics. In addition, an automatic licensing system accompanied by levies applies to some agricultural products, mineral fuel and oils, iron and steel and their products, and some chemical products. All imports, including those by individuals, are subject to an ad valorem customs duty (industrial products up to a rate of 45 percent, agricultural products up to 232.7 percent) and to a value-added tax (VAT) of 5 percent or 22 percent.2 Imports from the Slovak Republic are exempt from customs duties under a customs union. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the Gener- alized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, 74 "least developed" countries benefit from a duty exemption, and 104 developing countries are granted a 50-100 percent reduction from the appli- cable customs duties; tropical products are granted reductions of 100 percent. Residents are required to repatriate domestic and foreign currency acquired abroad. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), facilitating voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or preserving for the internal market natu- ral resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construction materi- als). For the two latter groups of products, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions, other than the general repatriation requirement, on invisible transactions. 2The incidence of customs tar iffs was 4.8 percent in 1995 (mea- sured as a weighted average). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 143 Capital Portfolio investment by residents abroad may be, with some exceptions, executed only through authorized domestic agents or with prior approval. Prior approval is required when residents extend to nonresidents credits or guarantee an obligation of nonresident guarantees. The extension of credits and guarantees by nonresidents to residents is unrestricted. October 1. The Czech Republic accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections, 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. October 1. The new Foreign Exchange Law (No. 219/1995) came into effect. Prescription of Currency September 30. The bilateral clearing arrangement with the Slovak Republic was terminated by mutual agreement. Gold Capital Gold bullion may generally be traded only with authorized agents (banks). Export and import of gold bullion and /or more than 10 gold coins must be reported. June 22. The National Bank announced that effec- tive August 3, 1995, borrowing abroad by banks would be curtailed by limiting open positions of the National Bank vis-a-vis nonresidents. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement April 24. The National Bank introduced a fee of 0.25 percent on its foreign exchange transactions with banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Denmark participates with Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the Danmarks Nation- albank, the central bank, stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other countries participating in the EMS in unlimited amounts at specified interven- tion rates. On December 31,1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Austrian schillings 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Portuguese escudos 100 Spanish pesetas Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 62.95610 46.69100 21.47470 442.96800 132.06600 10.67920 393.10500 4.32100 5.20640 15.92660 328.46100 97.94300 7.92014 291.54400 3.20400 3.86140 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. The National Bank, however, does intervene in other situations for the purpose of smoothing out fluctuations in exchange rates and has an obligation to intervene on the Danish foreign exchange market only at the intervention rates agreed within the EMS. Middle rates (average of buying and selling rates) Austria became a member of the European Union on January 1, 1995, and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9,1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ± 2.25 percent to ± 15 percent around the bilateral exchange rates; the f luc tua t ion band of the deutsche mark and the Nether- lands guilder remained unchanged at ± 2.25 percent. for 21 foreign currencies,3 the SDR, and the ECU are officially fixed daily and reflect the rates prevailing at the time of the fixing. On December 31,1995, the official rate for the U.S. dollar was DKr 5.546 per $1. All remaining foreign exchange regulations were lifted with effect from October 1, 1988. Residents may hold positions in foreign currencies without limitation with respect to the amounts, currencies, or instruments involved. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange deal- ing. The Executive Order on Foreign Exchange Reg- ulations, issued by the Ministry of Business and Industry with effect from July 23, 1994, stipulates that payments of more than DKr 60,000 between res- idents and nonresidents must be reported to the National Bank for statistical purposes. For tax control purposes, residents (with certain exceptions) must deposit foreign securities and Dan- ish bonds issued abroad either with a Danish or a foreign bank or with the issuer. Residents who are holding accounts with foreign banking institutions, who have deposited securities abroad, or who have entered into contracts with foreign life insurance companies are required to provide the Danish tax authorities with relevant information concerning these transactions. Denmark accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. The Faeroe Islands are still subject to the regulations in force before July 23,1994. Administration of Control No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Reporting requirements for statistical pur- poses are administered by the National Bank and by the foreign exchange dealers, whereas reporting requirements for tax purposes on depositing foreign 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 145 securities and on accounts abroad are part of the tax legislation and are administered by the tax authori- ties and the foreign exchange dealers. Foreign exchange dealers are commercial banks, savings banks, and stockbrokerage companies or other financial institutions, as defined in the Executive Order, provided that they settle payments between residents and nonresidents on a commercial basis through accounts held in or on behalf of foreign banking institutions (correspondent banks). The National Bank has drawn up a list of foreign exchange dealers. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Industry or the Minis- try of Agriculture and Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Denmark notified the Fund on September 10, 1990, and on July 27, 1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia/Montenegro), respectively. Prescription of Currency No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for certain items subject to strategic con- trols, licenses for exports are required only for the waste and scrap of certain metals. No exchange control requirements are imposed on receipts from exports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. The general rules on exchange con- trol issued by the Ministry of Business and Industry are based on Articles 23a through 73a of the EU Treaty on Capital Movements and on the Organiza- tion for Economic Cooperation and Development Capital Code; no distinction is made in these rules between residents of member countries of the EU and those of the rest of the world. There are no prescription of currency requirements. Gold Imports and Import Payments Imports of most products, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a com- mon European Union (EU) system of export-import licenses has been established for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other country outside the EU that is not a state trading country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Baltic countries, Russia, the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Vietnam. Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in bars or coins in Denmark; they may also import gold in bars or coins. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary author- ities, are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 25 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at the rate of 25 percent. There is no customs duty on imports of gold in bars or coins. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis dur- ing 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of December 32,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti franc, the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 per $1. Buy- ing and selling rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are set by local banks on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international mar- kets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 0.5-6 percent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency concerned. A fixed commission of about DF 3,000 is charged on transfers in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial enterprises are free to negotiate for- ward exchange contracts for commercial and finan- cial transactions through local banks or banks abroad. All transactions are negotiated at free mar- ket rates. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Djibouti accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, on September 19,1980. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Djibouti franc is issued in notes and coins by the National Bank of Djibouti, which issues and redeems the currency against U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Dji- bouti, but the territory as a whole does not constitute a free zone. However, a 1994 law authorizes the establishment of industrial export processing enter- prises (enterprises {ranches industrielles) anywhere in the country. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consumption tax at the rate of 33 percent. Certain commodities, includ- ing alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax at various rates. Additional taxes are levied on imported milk products and fruit juice. Exports and Export Proceeds There are virtually no restrictions. Export pro- ceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. A tax of 10 percent applies to fees and salaries paid to individuals and legal entities who, for professional purposes, are not per- manent residents of Djibouti. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. Under the Investment Code of February 13, 1984, enterprises established or expanded to undertake certain specific economic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Under an arrangement governing export processing enterprises, export-oriented manufac tur ing and ser- vices are exempt from the profit tax during the first ten years of operation, and their exports of goods and services are exempt from the export tax. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Carib- bean Dollar^which is issued by the Eastern Carib- bean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Dominica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on December 13,1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to commercial banks certain powers to approve sales of foreign currencies within specified limits. The Minis- try of Trade administers import and export arrange- ments and controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories participat- ing in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made in the currency of the country concerned. Set- tlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made.3 Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign currency accounts may be operated only with the permission of the Ministry of Finance; per- ]The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Angu i l la, An t igua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CAR ICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. mission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resident in Domin- ica. The accounts can only be credited with foreign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Payments from these accounts do not require approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Iraq are prohibited, and all imports originating from the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (Albania, Cambodia, China, and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea) require a license. Imports of specified goods originating outside the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS),4 Belize, and CARICOM require a license. Imports of a subset of these goods from the more developed countries of CARICOM (Barbados, Jamaica, Guyana, and Trinidad and Tobago) also require a license. In addition, there are certain quantitative restrictions on imports of beverages, flour, and margarine; quotas are allocated to traditional importers based on their historical market shares. The Common External Tariff (CET) of CARICOM countries is applied to all imports. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a commercial bank of evidence of purchase. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval. However, commercial banks have been del- egated authority to sell foreign currency to local resi- dents, as specified below: (1) for incidentals, EC$100, subject to a limit of EC$500 a person a year; (2) for each trip outside the area served by the ECCB, EC$3,000, subject to a maximum of two trips in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel doc- uments; (3) for bona fide business travelers, EC$1,000 for each day outside Dominica, provided the total does not exceed EC$30,000 in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents; (4) for overseas travel for medical treatment, EC$1,000 a day up to a maximum of EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, subject to the presentation of travel docu- ments and a medical certificate stating that the jour- 4The member countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vin- cent and the Grenadines. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 DOMINICA ney is necessary; (5) for educational expenses, including accommodation, up to EC$15,000 a student in each academic year; and (6) for dependents resid- ing abroad, EC$2,400 in any 12-month period (EC$3,600 for minor or incapacitated dependents). Amounts in excess of specified limits may be obtained with approval from the Ministry of Finance. Specific approval from the Ministry of Finance must also be obtained for outward remittances of cash gifts up to EC$1,000 a year to each recipient. Earn- ings of foreign workers and profits and dividends from foreign direct investment may be remitted after settlement of all tax or other public liabilities. The exportation of Eastern Caribbean banknotes and coins (other than numismatic coins) by residents and nonresidents traveling to destinations outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts prescribed by theECCB. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Iraq are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is manda- tory, unless the exporter has a foreign currency account into which the proceeds may be paid. Bananas exported by the Dominica Banana Market- ing Corporation are subject to a levy of 1 percent if the export price is between 55 cents and 60 cents a pound; if the export price exceeds 60 cents a pound, an additional levy equivalent to 25 percent of the excess is imposed. Proceeds from Invisibles eign currency account. There is no restriction on the importation of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval. The purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and of real estate located abroad is not normally permitted. Capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted, subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the ECCB area may transfer up to EC$30,000 a family from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any related liabilities. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quanti- ties of gold may be imported for industrial purposes only with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a for- October 1. The CET was reduced by 5 percentage points on selected items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 33,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso, the external value of which is determined in the interbank market. The official exchange rate, based on a September 1994 resolu- tion1 is set weekly on the basis of the average of the previous week's exchange rates in the interbank market, in which the rates are determined by supply and demand. However, since December 1994, the official exchange rate has been pegged to the U.S. dollar at RD$12.87. On December 31, 1995, the offi- cial exchange rate was RD$12.87 per US$1. The commission equivalent to 3 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports was eliminated in June 1995 as provided for in Law No. 11-12 on tax reform by the Central Bank for the servicing of external debt. A commission of 1.5 percent is charged on sales of for- eign exchange in both the bank market and the offi- cial market. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. The Dominican Republic accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1,1953. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and is administered by the Central Bank. Thirteen commercial banks (including the state-owned Reserve Bank) are operating in the for- eign exchange market. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through special accounts established under recipro- cal credit agreements within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Set- tlements under the reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina and Venezuela have been suspended. All payments must be invoiced in U.S. dollars; other- wise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regarding the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Monetary Board Resolution No. 3 (September 7,1994). Service payments on the external public debt are executed in the same currency in which the loan is denominated. Imports and Import Payments Payments for the oil bill are transacted through the Central Bank at the official exchange rate. Imports on a document-against-payments basis must be denominated in U.S. dollars; for these imports, certification of the use of foreign currency is required for customs clearance. All other imports are transacted through the free interbank market and are subject only to verification of appropriate documentation. Most tariff rates range from 5 percent to 35 percent, and certain luxury imported goods are subject to an excise tax ranging from 5 percent to 80 percent. Payments for Invisibles All invisible payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documenta- tion requirements. The new Foreign Investment Law eliminated restrictions on profit remittances. Inves- tors should submit to the Central Bank for its approval a timetable for the gradual remittance of the profits withheld under the terms of the former Foreign Investment Law. The timetable should not be less than five years. Nonresident tourists may freely convert pesos to dollars upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are prohibited, including some food products and animal species, unprocessed wood (for environmental protection purposes), and blood (for public health reasons). Firms operating in the industrial free zones and dealing in ferro-nickel exports are exempt from the surrender requirement; firms operating in the industrial free zones are not subject to export price restrictions. The issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario), provided for by Law No. 69, was abolished by Law No. 11-92. Law No. 69 still regu- lates the system of temporary admission for imports, under which duties are waived for any imports used in the manufacture of nontraditional products to be exported within a year. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC The 100 percent refund of import duties in the industrial free trade zones was deleted from Law No. 299 and included in Law No. 8-90. (Exporters of nontraditional products eligible under the tempo- rary system of Law No. 69 are also exempt from taxes.) Exporters may not extend credit with a matu- rity of more than 30 days from the date of shipment to foreign buyers without authorization from the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles may be sold in the interbank market with certain exceptions (including international telephone calls, interna- tional credit card transactions, jet fuel, foreign embassies, alimonies, donations, and real estate), which must be surrendered to the Central Bank. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Such investments must be registered with the Central Bank. External debt can be contracted directly by the central Government, subject to congressional autho- rization. According to Decree No. 101 of August 20, 1982, and Law No. 749 of January 6,1978, new loans by other public entities require authorization from the President of the Republic for their subsequent registration by the Monetary Board. Total financial charges on foreign loans are not allowed to exceed the principal international interest rate by more than a certain margin. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange for the servicing of public external debt at the official exchange rate; the servicing of private external debt that is not guaranteed by the Government is effected through the interbank market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. Changes During 1995 Payments for Invisibles January 2. Persons traveling abroad cannot take out foreign currency in traveler's checks or cash for an amount exceeding US$10,000 (Executive Decree No. 7-12). Exports and Export Proceeds September 14. Minimum prices for agricultural exports were eliminated (Monetary Board Resolu- tion No. 19). Capital January 13. Commercial banks must sell any excess of foreign exchange after 48 hours of the purchase to the Central Bank at the official rate (Monetary Board Resolution No. 28). July 20. Payments of interest on dollar accounts in commercial banks can be made in U.S. dollars (Mon- etary Board Resolution No. 3). November 26. The Foreign (No. 1695) was passed. Investment Law ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are two exchange rates, (1) the free market rate, and (2) the central bank official exchange rate. The market rate of the sucre against the U.S. dollar fluctuates freely within a band that is prean- nounced by the Central Bank of Ecuador, having a width of 5 percent on each side of its midpoint; the midpoint depreciates at an annual rate of 16.5 per- cent. The selling rate of the Central Bank of Ecua- dor is established weekly at a level equal to the average selling rate in the free market of the previ- ous week. The buying rate of the Central Bank is set 2 percent lower than its selling rate. The Central Bank's selling rate is applied to all external pay- ments of the public sector; on December 29, 1995, the official buying and selling rates were S/. 2,864 and S/. 2,922, respectively, per $1. All legally permitted foreign exchange transac- tions, other than those conducted through the Cen- tral Bank, may be conducted in the free market. On December 29, 1995, the buying and selling rates in the free market were S/. 2,922 and S/. 2,925, respec- tively, per $1. The Central Bank is authorized to intervene in the free market. Banks and other financial institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions are permit- ted to conduct forward swaps and options and transactions in other financial derivative instru- ments, subject to the supervision and control of the Superintendency of Banks. Ecuador accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on August 31,1970. Administration of Control Public sector foreign exchange transactions are carried out exclusively through the Central Bank. Private sector foreign exchange transactions related to the exploration for, and production, transporta- tion, and commercialization of, oil and its deriva- tives may be carried out through the free market or through the Central Bank. Foreign exchange transac- tions of the private sector may be effected through banks and exchange houses authorized by the Mon- etary Board. Exports must be registered with the Central Bank to guarantee repatriation of any for- eign exchange proceeds from the transaction, and for statistical reasons. Import licenses granted by the Central Bank are required. Arrears are maintained with respect to public and publicly guaranteed debt service payments to offi- cial and private creditors. Prescription of Currency Some settlements with Cuba and Hungary take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Para- guay, Peru, Uruguay, or Venezuela may be made within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA). Exchange proceeds from other coun- tries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all goods except for a small group of goods prohibited, primarily to protect the environ- ment and health, are permitted. Imports of antiques and certain items related to health and national secu- rity are also prohibited. Certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies for ecological, health, and national security reasons. In August 1995, Ecuador joined the World Trade Organization (WTO) and, in this context, has begun a review of its trade regulations to conform them to WTO norms. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports. In addition, PETROECUADOR may, without a license, import supplies, materials, and equipment during emergencies. All private sector imports are subject to the 10 percent value-added tax. There is a temporary import admission regime for inputs used in export production. For certain agricultural imports, standard import tariffs were supplemented in 1993 by a system of corrective tariffs adopted with the announced inten- tion of reducing the variation, over time, of the cost of such imports. The system incorporates upper and lower benchmark prices for each product. For imports priced below the lower benchmark, the sup- plementary corrective tariff is applied so as to raise import costs to the lower benchmark level. For imports priced above the upper benchmark, a rebate is available on the standard import tariff, so as to 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 ECUADOR minimize the excess relative to the benchmark. Under provisions of the WTO, Ecuador has agreed to eliminate price bands of imports of 130 farm prod- ucts over a seven-year period. For automobiles, official reference prices are pub- lished for purposes of calculating tariffs. The refer- ence prices establish a minimum f.o.b. value and when importers declare a higher value, tariffs are calculated on the basis of the higher value. Under the current import tariff regime, most goods are sub- ject to the rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, 20 percent, or 35 percent, with the exception of auto- mobiles, which are subject to a tariff of 40 percent. Prepayments for imports by the private sector are permitted. Payments for Invisibles All public sector payments for invisibles, includ- ing interest on public debt, are transacted at the cen- tral bank rate. Other payments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market. There are no limi- tations on the amount of domestic or foreign bank- notes that travelers may take out. The remittance abroad of dividends and profits is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of $25 a person. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are taxed at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses but must be regis- tered for statistical purposes. All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized financial entities. Those who disregard the above surrender require- ments cannot proceed with a new export operation until they comply with the requirement on the previ- ous export. The Central Bank is authorized to carry out the inspections it considers necessary to verify the proper surrender of export proceeds. Authorized financial entities may purchase foreign exchange in anticipation of future exports. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports effected under authorized barter transac- tions. However, barter transactions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries; they must be registered with the Central Bank and are subject to specific lim- itations. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports to countries with which Ecuador has bilat- eral payments agreements. In such cases, exporters are required to provide official documentation from the recipient country establishing the applicable forms of payment. Exporters may deduct up to 15 percent from their surrender requirement to cover the actual cost of consular fees and commissions paid abroad. Exporters of marine products are per- mitted to retain up to 30 percent of the f.o.b. value of their shipments to cover the actual cost of leasing foreign ships. Minimum reference prices are estab- lished for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished products of cocoa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fully surren- dered. Payment of foreign exchange for petroleum exports is made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sales contracts and must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of shipment. All crude oil exports are subject to a tax of S/. 5 a barrel; in addi- tion, a tax of $1.02 a barrel is paid on crude oil exported through the pipeline. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on exchange reserves of the Central Bank and all invisible receipts of the public sector, which are transacted at the cen- tral bank rate. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Loan disbursements to the public sector must be transacted at the central bank rate. Unless specifically stated, new foreign direct investments do not require prior authorization. Both domestic and foreign enterprises are subject to a 25 percent income tax rate. Repatriation of capital and remittances of profits on foreign investments are handled through the free exchange market if investments were made through this market. Transfers of all other gains are subject to a tax rate of 33 percent. All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the Government or official entities, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to prior approval from the Monetary Board. A request for such approval must be submitted by the Minister of Finance and Public Credit to the Mon- etary Board, accompanied by detailed information on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the Monetary Board considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary aggregates. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General Development Plan or receive a favorable ruling from the Planning Office (CONADE). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 153 New external credits with a maturity of over one year that are contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be registered with the Central Bank. External credits contracted by the private sector must be registered at the Central Bank within 45 days of disbursement. Private sector credit arrangements not registered within the 45-day period are subject to a service charge equivalent to 0.25 percent of the credit amount. Gold The private sector is authorized to buy and sell gold in the international and domestic markets. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement February 16. The midpoint of the preannounced exchange rate band was depreciated by about 3 percent. June 30. The more appreciated central bank rate applied to the export proceeds of the state petroleum company was eliminated. October 27. The exchange rate band was widened to 5 percent on each side of the midpoint (from about 2 percent); its midpoint was depreciated by 3.1 percent; and the annual pace of depreciation was accelerated to 16.5 percent (from 12 percent). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound, the external value of which is determined in the free market. The U.S. dollar is used as the intervention currency. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers are per- mitted to operate in the free market. They may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) on their own accounts. These transactions, however, must be conducted through the accounts maintained by dealers with authorized banks in Egypt. In addition, authorized nonbank dealers may broker any foreign exchange operation and transaction except transfers to and from the country, on the accounts of their bank or nonbank customers. On December 31,1995, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar in the free mar- ket was LE 3.4 per $1. A special exchange rate of LEI .30 per $1 is applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan. In addition, a sep- arate rate of LE 0.3913 per $1 is used for the liquida- tion of balances related to past bilateral payments agreements. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transactions for their own accounts. No prior approval by the Central Bank of Egypt is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Administration of Control Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general authorization, without obtaining specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Trade and Supply formulates external trade policy. The monopoly of the public sector over the exportation and importa- tion of certain products has been abolished. Port Said City has held free zone status since 1977. Pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 of November 8, 1993, certain restrictions have been imposed on financial transactions in respect of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any convertible cur- rency. Settlements with Sudan, the only country with which Egypt maintains an operative bilateral payments agreement, are made in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Payments not covered by the agreement may be made in any convertible currency. Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensa- tion for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and are paid by debiting free accounts in for- eign currency. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the "D" accounts and the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreement with Sudan, as well as the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries, there are three types of accounts: free accounts, special capital accounts, and capital and operations accounts. D accounts may be opened in the name of resi- dents of Sudan. These accounts are largely historical. They are usually credited with transfers under the respective payments agreement. Balances are used to make local payments allowed under the bilateral agreement, including payments for imports from Egypt. Currently, outstanding balances on these accounts are minimal. Free accounts in foreign currency may be opened in the name of any entity. These accounts may be cred- ited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar accounts, foreign banknotes (convertible currencies), foreign currency equivalents from funds transferred from and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, trans- fers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in for- eign banknotes by the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt. Special capital accounts may be credited with pro- ceeds from sales of real estate owned by foreigners residing abroad. Authorized banks may transfer funds abroad from these accounts up to the amount in foreign exchange previously transferred and sur- rendered for Egyptian pounds at the time of the acquisition of the property, plus 5 percent of the value of the property for each year following the first five years of ownership until the property is sold; the remainder, as well as the balances of special 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 155 accounts that were credited by the sale values of real estate previously purchased with transfers of con- vertible foreign exchange from abroad, may be paid in five equal annual installments with a minimum of LE 100. However, if the account balance is not exhausted after five years, this balance may be treated as a balance of a current account in Egyptian pounds. Capital and operations accounts may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 230 of July 1989. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, advance payments and long-term rents in foreign exchange, loans, funds purchased from the free market, and funds purchased from the free accounts to meet the project requirement; they may be debited for payments by the account holder (e.g., imports, profit remittances, interest, other invisibles, and financing of local expenditures). Imports and Import Payments The Ministry of Trade and Supply formulates long-term export and import policies and prepares indicative annual export and import plans. Both public and private entities are allowed to trade with all countries in convertible currencies, with the exception of Sudan, with which Egypt maintains a bilateral payments agreement. All imports financed by the Central Bank are effected at the free market rate, with the exception of imports under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan, which are effected at a more appreci- ated rate. Import payments in foreign exchange by the pri- vate sector are effected through the commercial banks or through importers' own foreign exchange resources. All products may be freely imported, with the exception of textiles, which may be imported as inputs for production with the approval of the Min- istry of Industry. For customs purposes, products are classified into eight categories on which tariff rates range from 5 percent to 70 percent (with several exceptions). Surcharges ranging from 2 percent to 5 percent are levied on most imports. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks and other agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange may sell without restric- tion foreign currencies for payments for invisibles to the Government, public authorities, the public and private sectors, and companies established under the domestic investment regime, in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Law. Travelers may not take out more than LE 1,000 in domestic banknotes but are permitted to take out foreign banknotes and other instruments of pay- ment in foreign currency without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from a limited number of products required for the national economy that may be restricted (e.g., hides and scrap metal) all goods may be exported without a license. Exports of cotton, rice, and petro- leum are no longer a public sector monopoly. There are no requirements for repatriation of export proceeds. Proceeds from exports by the private and public sectors under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan are obtained in Egyptian pounds in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earned abroad may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in free accounts. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 1,000 in Egyptian banknotes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts of foreign exchange. Capital Proceeds of sales of Egyptian and foreign securi- ties registered at the stock market in Egypt may be transferred through the free market for foreign exchange. The same treatment is applied to the transfer of income earned from Egyptian securities and profits owed to foreigners from investments in projects established in Egypt. Payments for real estate that foreigners are allowed to own must be made in convertible curren- cies. Proceeds from sales of property owned in Egypt by foreigners or their heirs must be deposited in a special capital account in the name of the foreign seller at an authorized bank. The authorized bank may transfer funds abroad from the account, but the transfer must be limited to the amount of foreign exchange units previously transferred and surren- dered for Egyptian pounds at the time of the acquisi- tion of the property, plus 5 percent of the value of the property for each year following the first five years of ownership until the property was sold. (See sec- tion on special capital accounts under Nonresident Accounts, above.) The ratio of foreign currency liabilities to foreign currency assets of authorized commercial banks is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 EGYPT subject to a maximum limit of 105 percent, and the open foreign exchange position for a single cur- rency and for all currencies combined is subject to limits of 10 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of their capital. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers may maintain foreign exchange working balances of up to $225,000 for the first LE 1 million of paid- up capital and up to $295,000 for each LE 1 million exceeding the first LE 1 million of paid-up capital. Gold Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate, either for their own or their customers' account, in precious metals. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon. Since January 1, 1994, the Central Reserve Bank has intervened in the foreign exchange market to maintain the exchange rate at C 8.75 per $1. The Central Reserve Bank establishes the daily exchange rates, which are applied to its transactions with the public sector, and the calculation of tax obligations. This exchange rate is the simple average of the exchange rates set by commercial banks and exchange houses on the previous working day. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling exchange rates of the Central Reserve Bank, the commercial banks, and the exchange houses were C 8.72 and C 8.79, respectively, per $1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official, commercial banking, or exchange house sector. El Salvador accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on November 6,1946. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Reserve Bank in accordance with its organic law. All private sector imports and payments for invisibles are delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Exports of a number of products require permits issued by the Centro de Tramites de Exportacion (CENTREX). The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts Both residents and nonresidents may maintain deposit accounts in foreign currencies with autho- rized banks. Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks or used to make payments abroad without restriction. Transfers of funds between these accounts are also not restricted. The commercial banks are required to submit periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank on the use of such accounts. Reserve requirements on foreign cur- rency deposits are the same as those for domestic currency deposits (30 percent on checking deposits and 20 percent on savings deposits). Imports and Import Payments Import permits are issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy and are required for only a few items, including gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, asphalt, propane and butane gas, cloth and jute sacks, sugar, and molasses. The commercial banks and exchange houses are authorized to make payments for private imports. Payments for public sector imports and settlements of official lines of credit are made by the commercial banks and the Central Reserve Bank after deposits have been made in local currency to cover the full value of credit. Import tar iffs range from 5 percent to 20 percent although some products, such as automobiles, alco- holic drinks, textiles, and luxury items, are subject to an import tariff of 30 percent. Capital goods are sub- ject to a 1 percent import tariff. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles of a personal nature (e.g., medical treatment and study and travel abroad) are free of restrictions, and the authority to grant foreign exchange for expenses relating to foreign travel and study abroad is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Exports and Export Proceeds CENTREX issues certificates of origin and of plants and animal health as required by foreign importers, and extends textile visas for the categories with U.S. quotas. All exports must be registered, with the exception of exports amounting to less than $5,000, unless the product specifications call for such certifi- cation. Export permits issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for diesel fuel, liquefied petroleum gas, gray cement, and raw sugarcane for the U.S. preferential quota. Proceeds from exports of goods may be surren- dered to the commercial banks; proceeds from exports outside of Central America amounting to less than $25,000 may be surrendered to exchange houses. Exporters of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America receive a drawback of taxes 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 EL SALVADOR paid in cash on imported raw materials equivalent to 6 percent of the f.o.b. value of their exports. Since December 1992, proceeds from exports of coffee have been subject to an income tax, which replaced the export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to commercial banks or exchange houses. Capital Foreign direct investments and inflows of capital with a maturity of more than one year must be regis- tered with the Ministry of Economy but are not restricted. External borrowing by financial institu- tions is subject to a reserve requirement of 10 per- cent. The net foreign asset position of commercial banks is limited to 20 percent of capital. Outward remittance of interest and amortization on external loans may be made without restriction. Act No. 279 of March 27, 1996, sets certain mini- mum capital requirements for businesses owned by foreign residents and those having foreign resident shareholders. This act defines foreign residents as persons residing in El Salvador who are not citizens of one of the five member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Gold Gold coins in the denomination of C 2,500 have been issued as legal tender. Residents and nonresi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins for numis- matic purposes. Gold coins in denominations of C 25, C 50, C 100, and C 200 have been issued as legal tender but do not circulate. These coins are not available for sale and exist only for numismatic pur- poses in the Central Reserve Bank collection. The importation and exportation of gold in any form are not restricted. Changes During 1995 Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts April 29. Reserve requirements on domestic and foreign currency deposits were unified. Imports and Import Payments April 1. Import tariffs on capital goods were low- ered to 1 percent from 5 percent. Capital May 20. The net foreign asset position of commer- cial banks was increased to 20 percent from 10 per- cent of their capital. September 30. The reserve requirement on financial system external borrowing, eliminated in March 1995, was reimposed at 10 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of June 30, 2996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except for transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repay- ments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of insurance pre- miums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Equa- torial Guinea's exchange control measures generally do not apply to France (and its overseas depart- ments and territories), Monaco, and all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). All payments to these countries may be made freely, but financial transfers of more than CFAF 500,000 to countries of the Operations Account area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are consid- ered foreign countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Equatorial Guinea accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on June 1,1996. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate General of Exchange Control (ONCC) of the ]The CFA franc circulating in Equatorial Guinea is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. Because the BEAC suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC bank- notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the Cen- tral Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports valued at more than CFAF 50,000 are sub- ject to licensing, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions whose value exceeds CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final desti- nation. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authorization of uninterrupted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. In April 1994, a new tariff structure was introduced in the context of the tax and customs reform of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC). For UDEAC member countries, the com- 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 EQUATORIAL GUINEA mon duty rate for basic necessities was reduced to 5 percent; for raw materials and capital goods, 10 percent; for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, 20 percent; and for consumer goods, 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. However, these regulations are administered liberally, and bona fide requests for allowances in excess of these limits are normally granted. Return- ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destina- tion, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-expor- tation by nonresident travelers of means of pay- ments other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a for- eign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re- exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceil- ings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their pur- chase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of non- resident deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two years. The transfer abroad of the salaries of expatriates working in Equatorial Guinea is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher as well as justification of expenses, provided that the trans- fer takes place within three months of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of expatriates working in Equatorial Guinea on a temporary basis, pay- ments of insurance premiums of up to CFAF 50,000 to foreign countries are permitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the ONCC. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries must be repatri- ated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days of the arrival date of the mer- chandise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the Operations Account area. Capital Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 161 Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are freely permitted.2 Under the investment code of April 30, 1992 (as modified June 6,1994), a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. These privileges include exemption from import- and export-licensing requirements and free transfer abroad of debt payments and net profits. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Equatorial Guinea. They must have the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is not normally given because there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Regulations on capital transactions, such as the sale of foreign securities in Equatorial Guinea or direct investments, have been prepared and are pending approval. The authorities are also in the process of d ra f t ing legislation aimed at stimulating foreign in- vestment in the agricultural, forestry, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equipment maintenance sectors. Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Exports are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance; authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Equatorial Guinea accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA (Position as of March 32, 2996) Exchange Arrangement The provisional legal tender of Eritrea is the Ethio- pian Birr, which is issued by the National Bank of Ethiopia. Prior to July 30, 1995, an official rate, the marginal auction rate (determined in the fortnightly auction conducted by the National Bank), and a preferential exchange rate existed in Ethiopia. Effec- tive July 30, 1995, the official and marginal auction exchange rates were unified. This rate was Br 6.32 per U.S. dollar at the end of March 1996. The prefer- ential exchange rate on that date was Br 7.20 per $1. The marginal auction rate applies to most transac- tions between Eritrea and Ethiopia, to government imports, and to all aid-funded imports. The prefer- ential exchange rate is used for most private imports, all exports, and the conversion of foreign exchange remittances by Eritreans living abroad. The preferential exchange rate is fixed by the author- ities for purchases of foreign exchange at Br 7.05 per $1, and for sales of foreign exchange at Br 7.20 per $1. There is also a parallel market rate, which stood at about Br 7.5 per $1 at the end of 1995. The National Bank undertakes transactions with authorized dealers, which in turn carry out transac- tions with the public on its behalf. There is also a limited number of unofficial but sanctioned dealers that buy and sell foreign exchange at the preferential rate. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar1 are communicated daily by the National Bank to the authorized dealers on the basis of same day early morning cross quotations in the London market against the U.S. dollar. For all foreign cur- rency transactions, except transactions involving foreign currency notes, the National Bank prescribes a commission of 0.5 percent for purchases of foreign exchange and 1.5 percent for sales of foreign exchange. The authorized dealers are permitted, but not obliged, to levy a service charge for their own account of up to 0.25 percent buying and 0.75 per- cent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include a margin charge that is applied by the correspondents abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is no forward cover ]At present, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. provided in foreign exchange by the National Bank or the authorized dealers. Administration of Control The National Bank is working to ensure that all foreign exchange transactions are effected through the authorized dealers who are licensed in accor- dance with the Monetary and Banking Proclamation No. 32/1993. Under this Proclamation, the National Bank may from time to time issue regulations, direc- tives, and instructions on foreign exchange matters. Comprehensive foreign exchange regulations, as well as a new Central Bank Act, have been prepared and submitted for the Government's approval. The Exchange Control Department of the National Bank issues permits only for those imports that require foreign exchange from the banking system. The National Licensing Office issues licenses for importers, exporters, and commercial agents, and the Ministry of Trade and Industry has authority to regulate foreign investments (Investment Proclama- tion No. 59/1994); it vets and licenses technology transfer agreements, as well as investment projects (including joint ventures) that are eligible to take advantage of the tax, foreign exchange, and other concessions of the Investment Proclamation. The Asmara Chamber of Commerce issues certificates of origin for exports. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in currencies quoted by the National Bank or in any other convertible cur- rency it deems acceptable. All transactions with Ethiopia, except for those related to the imports of spare parts for the refinery in Assab, are settled in Ethiopian birr. Under the agreement of friendship and coopera- tion signed by the Presidents of Eritrea and Ethiopia in September 1993, these two countries undertook to cooperate closely and develop common policies con- cerning a wide range of issues, including matters pertaining to their exchange and trade systems. A joint ministerial commission is entrusted to ensure that implementation of the provisions of the agree- ment, notably its Article 9, which calls for mutual consultation on the use of the Ethiopian birr and the exploration of the possibilities of adopting a com- mon currency by both countries. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA 163 An agreement to establish a free trade area (FTA) between Eritrea and Ethiopia was signed on April 4, 1995. Payments are generally made in Ethiopian birr, although the Government of Ethiopia has required payments in foreign currencies for Eritrea's pur- chases of Ethiopia's exports, as well as for goods that are in short supply in Ethiopia. Under an intergov- ernmental agreement between Eritrea and Ethiopia, Eritrea pays Ethiopia in birr for its domestic require- ments of petroleum products. The refinery in Assab is reimbursed in birr for the costs of refining the derivative products consumed by Ethiopia, except that the portion corresponding to the depreciation of equipment is paid for in foreign exchange. As stipulated under an intergovernmental transit and port services agreement as well as a customs arrangement (amended annually), the port of Assab is a free port for Ethiopia, with its own Ethiopian customs branch office, and goods shipped to or from Ethiopia remain exempt from the Eritrean customs duties and related charges. Procedures for the clear- ing of goods and the exchange of documentation are to be coordinated, and the port and shipping charges are paid in Ethiopian birr. Resident and Nonresident Accounts All residents are allowed to maintain foreign cur- rency accounts. Nonbank residents may not open accounts abroad, unless they are specifically autho- rized by the National Bank. With the approval of the National Bank, nonresi- dents may open accounts denominated in U.S. dol- lars or in Ethiopian birr with the Commercial Bank of Eritrea. Imports and Import Payments All importers must possess a valid trade license issued by the National Licensing Office. These licenses must be renewed each year at a fee of Br 200-Br 500. Import payments made through the banking system require permits that are issued by the National Bank upon presentation of pro forma invoices providing information as to type, quantity, unit price, and freight cost (where applicable). A commission of 2 percent is collected on imports that do not require official foreign exchange and are not aid funded. The National Bank ensures fu ll collec- tion of franco valuta commissions by requesting the display of a payment document to the Customs Office at the time of the import declaration. Imports of cars and other motor vehicles require prior per- mission from the Ministry of Transport to ensure their suitability for existing infras truc ture and other similar considerations. There are no priority and negative lists for imports, except that a public enter- prise producing tobacco and matches holds a monopoly over the import of these products. Most imports requiring official foreign exchange are effected under letters of credit or on a cash-against- documents basis. Suppliers' credits must be regis- tered with the National Bank. There is a negative list for imports that must be financed through the banking system; however, goods included on this list may still be imported through the franco valuta system. As of March 30, 1996, the National Bank has not provided foreign exchange for the import of goods in the following categories: perfumes and cosmetics; hair wigs and dyes; toys and games; plastic shopping bags; jewelry and other ornaments; dishes and similar kitchen equipment, except for hotels; ready-made clothing; biscuits and confectionery items; fresh fruits, fruit juices, and vegetables, except for hotels and duty- free shops; live animals, except for breeding pur- poses; fresh or tinned meat, eggs, and fish; liquor and soft drinks, except for hotels and duty-free shops; salt; articles of decoration and Christmas trees; postcards, holiday or other greeting cards, and collectors' postage stamps; ivory; and smoking arti- cles. Effective November 11,1995, importers have no longer been required to submit customs declarations to the National Bank for discharging purposes. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made to all coun- tries with a foreign exchange permit, which is issued free of charge by the National Bank. The travel allowance for business trips abroad, except to Ethio- pia, is $250 a person a day for up to 30 days. In bona fide cases, these limits may be exceeded with the approval of the National Bank. Exporters may freely use balances in their retention accounts for business travel purposes. For personal travel, the allowance is $100 a person (adult or minor) for up to two trips a year. The allowance for medical treatment abroad, other than Ethiopia, is up to $10,000 on recommen- dation of the Medical Board of the Ministry of Health. Residents may remit premiums on life insur- ance policies that were taken out before May 1991. Generally, the National Bank grants approval for purchase of foreign exchange exceeding limits. Effective November 11, 1995, the requirement to submit bills of settlement by authorized dealers of foreign exchange (e.g., hotels and duty-free shops) has been suspended, and the National Bank notified the general public that all Eritrean nationals could ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 ERITREA purchase air travel tickets in local or foreign currency. In accordance with the Investment Code (Procla- mation No. 59/1994), foreign investors may freely remit net profits and dividends accrued from invest- ments, fees, and royalties in respect of any technol- ogy transfer agreements. Foreign employees may remit up to 40 percent of their net earnings each month, and up to 60 percent of their cumulative earnings upon completion of their term of service in Eritrea. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must be licensed by the National Licensing Office. The annual licensing fee is Br 300 for producers and Br 500 for the commercial agents of foreign companies. All exports require documen- tation by the National Bank, which examines the sales contracts as to type of product, quantity, and unit price. Certain products may require clearance from specific government bodies (e.g., the Eritrean Institute of Standards). In particular, livestock and cereals require the permission of the Ministry of Agriculture, and marine products require the per- mission of the Ministry of Marine Resources. Exports of unprocessed hides and skins have been suspended since mid-1993 in an attempt to improve the supply to domestic tanneries and processors. Exports may be made under a letter of credit or on an advance payments basis; in some cases, exports may be permitted on a consignment basis. All export proceeds must be repatriated to an authorized bank within 90 days of shipment; where justified, this deadline can be extended by another 90 days. Exporters may retain up to 100 percent of the sales proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from current invisibles by residents must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers are not required to declare their foreign exchange holdings at the point of entry into Eritrea and are not allowed to reconvert their bal- ances back into foreign currency upon departure. Capital Foreign exchange proceeds representing capital inflows must be registered at the National Bank to ensure the smooth transfer of dividends and inter- est, amortization of principal, and proceeds of the sale of shares to residents or from the liquidation of investments. Direct foreign investments (including joint ven- tures) in Eritrea are governed by the provisions of the Investment Proclamation No. 59/1994. Foreign direct investment is permitted in all sectors, except that domestic retail and wholesale trade, and import and commission agencies are open to foreign investors only when Eritrea has a bilateral agreement of reci- procity with the country of the investor; the latter condition may be waived by the Government. Approved investments and their subsequent expan- sion enjoy exemption from customs duties and sales tax for capital goods and spare parts associated with the investment. There are no exemptions from income tax. Under the foreign exchange regulations submitted to the Government, foreign investors may freely remit proceeds received from liquidation of investment and/or expansion, and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares. Petroleum contractors and subcontractors may freely transfer abroad funds accruing from petroleum operations to pay subcontractors and expatriate staff abroad. Foreign borrowing by residents in Eritrea must be registered with the National Bank. Authorized banks are permitted to purchase and hold foreign ban- knotes up to the equivalent of $500,000. Amounts exceeding this limit must be surrendered to the National Bank or deposited in the correspondent accounts abroad. With the approval of the National Bank, authorized banks may borrow abroad or over- draw their correspondent accounts abroad. They may acquire securities under similar conditions. Gold Residents may own gold jewelry without restric- tions. Ownership or possession of gold or other pre- cious metals or ores requires the authorization of the Ministry of Energy, Mines, and Water Resources. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement July 25. The official and marginal auction exchange rates were unified, and the marginal auc- tion rate of Ethiopia (determined in the fortnightly foreign exchange auctions conducted by the National Bank of Ethiopia) was to be considered the official exchange rate of Eritrea. Prescription of Currency April 4. An agreement to establish a free trade area (FTA) between Eritrea and Ethiopia was signed. Changes During 1996 Imports and Import Payments March 30. The National Bank ceased to provide foreign exchange for the import of certain goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA (Position as of December 32,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Estonia is the Kroon. Since the introduction of a currency board system, the con- vertibility of the kroon has been guaranteed by the Bank of Estonia; the Bank of Estonia exchanges kroon banknotes and reserve deposits of commer- cial banks with the Bank of Estonia into deutsche mark and vice versa at the exchange rate of EEK 8 per DM1. The kroon is fully convertible for all cur- rent international transactions and for virtually all international capital transactions. Transactions in convertible currencies are freely handled by the commercial banks, and commercial banks are free to quote their own exchange rates. Estonia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on August 15,1994. Administration of Control The authority to issue and enforce foreign exchange regulations is based on the Central Bank Law. Import and export controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the former Soviet Union can be effected through a system of correspondent accounts maintained by the Bank of Estonia with the respective central banks. Balances accrued in these accounts may in most cases be used freely by their holders, to purchase either goods or services in the country concerned. In operating these accounts, the Bank of Estonia acts as an intermediary only and does not convert any balances to krooni. Kroon balances held by central banks of the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and other countries of the former Soviet Union on their correspondent accounts are fully convertible without delay. These agreements also allow for separate decentralized payments arrangements between commercial banks in the respective states and do not provide for swing cred- its or overdraft facilities. In addition, Estonian exporters and importers may effect payments with- out undue delays. Settlements with countries with which Estonia maintains bilateral payments agree- ments are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.1 Commercial banks in Estonia are permitted and encouraged to open their own correspondent accounts with counterpart commercial banks in the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the former Soviet Union to effect payments associated with trade with those countries. Estonia maintains outstanding balances on inop- erative correspondent accounts with a number of countries of the former Soviet Union. Resident and Nonresident Accounts No licenses are needed to open and operate these accounts. Imports and Exports Imports are not subject to quantitative restric- tions. Licenses are required for the following: met- als, spirits, tobacco and tobacco goods, drugs, cars, weapons, ammunition and explosives, fuel and motor oil, and lottery tickets. Custom duties are lev- ied on fur, fur goods, launches, yachts, and water- or motorskis. In addition, imports are subject to state duty and an 18 percent value-added tax, which is also levied on domestically produced goods. With the exception of beer, imported alco- holic beverages and tobacco products are subject to the same excise taxes levied on domestic products.2 Exports are not subject to quantitative restrictions. Licenses are required for the following: metals, spir- its, tobacco and tobacco goods, drugs, cars, weap- ons, ammunition and explosives, fuel and motor oil, and lottery tickets. Customs duties are levied on items of cultural value. In addition, exports are sub- ject to state duty for customs clearance. Enterprises are not required to repatriate export proceeds. There are no surrender requirements. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no regulations governing payments for or proceeds from invisibles. !At the beginning of 1996, Estonia maintained bilateral pay- ments agreements with Belarus, Kazakstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, and Ukraine. 2The import du ty on beer is planned to be replaced by the do- mestic excise on beer in 1996. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 ESTONIA The importation and exportation of domestic banknotes are not restricted. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers are not con- trolled or restricted. Gold International and domestic trade in gold is sub- ject to the licensing requirement administered by the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1995 Imports and Exports January 1. Free trade agreement with the Euro- pean Union (EU) came into effect. April 1. The import tariffs levied on fur, fur good, automobiles, bicycles, launches, and yachts were replaced with excises applicable for both domestic and imported products. The ad valorem import and export processing fee of 0.5 percent was replaced by a specific fee in line with the World Trade Organization (WTO) principles. December 31. Imported alcoholic beverages, except beer, and tobacco products were subject to the same excises as domestic products. Capital March 1. New prudential ratios for banks, set at international acceptable levels, became effective. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr. Since May 1,1993, the National Bank of Ethiopia has made foreign exchange available to licensed import- ers through a biweekly auction. Until May 15, 1995, the exchange system consisted of two rates: the offi- cial rate and the auction rate. The official exchange rate was pegged to the U.S. dollar and adjusted occa- sionally on the basis of the marginal rates derived from the auctions. On May 15, 1995, the two rates were unified in practice, with the official rate set at the average of the auctions rates during the preced- ing month. On July 25,1995, the official and auction rates were unified de jure, with the official rate set equal to the marginal rate arising from the auction. The biweekly auctions are of the Dutch type, under which a preannounced quantity of foreign exchange is allocated among importers beginning with the highest price bid. Successful bids are completed at the respective bid prices, and the marginal exchange rate is determined by the lowest successful bid. All licensed importers are allowed to submit bids to the auction if foreign exchange is to be used to import goods that are not included on a negative list. Authorized dealers must observe a prescribed com- mission of 0.50 percent on buying and 1.50 percent on selling, the proceeds of which accrue to the National Bank. Dealers are authorized to levy ser- vice charges of up to 0.25 percent on buying and 0.75 percent on selling for their own accounts. For currencies other than the U.S. dollar, dealers are authorized to include the margin charges applied by the correspondents abroad. In practice, the autho- rized charges are usually levied. The commission and service charges are also applied by the National Bank in its dealings with the Government and cer- tain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized dealer under the control of the National Bank. The purchase of foreign exchange for imports of petroleum products, phar- maceuticals, and fertilizers takes place outside the auction, with foreign exchange obtained directly from the National Bank at the official rate. Imports financed with suppliers' credits require prior approval and are limited to raw and intermediate materials, pharmaceuticals, machinery, and trans- port equipment. The Exchange Controller of the National Bank issues exchange licenses for all exports and payments abroad and issues permits for all shipments. The Minister of Trade formulates external trade policy. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in con- vertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Eritrea, except those relating to imports of spare parts for the refinery in Assab, Eritrea, are made in birr. The net proceeds of exports must be surren- dered in a freely convertible foreign currency or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks upon approval of the Exchange Control Department of the National Bank. Deposits to these accounts must be made only in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresi- dent foreign currency accounts may be freely trans- ferred abroad, and transfers between nonresident accounts do not require prior approval. Members of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontransferable birr accounts for payment of local expenses. Joint ventures are permitted to open for- eign currency accounts or transferable or nontrans- ferable birr accounts to purchase raw materials, equipment, and spare parts not available in the local market. As soon as the goods are received, docu- mentary evidence of the entry of the goods pur- chased with such funds must be submitted to the Exchange Control Department of the National Bank. In general, these accounts may be replenished only after the documents have been presented. Blocked accounts of nonresidents maintained with authorized banks are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see the section on Capital, below). Resi- dent Ethiopian nationals are not allowed to maintain bank accounts abroad. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 ETHIOPIA Imports and Import Payments Unless importers have their own sources of for- eign exchange (franco valuta imports) or obtain for- eign exchange directly from the National Bank, they must participate in the foreign exchange auction. As of December 1995, the requirement that importers participating in the auction deposit 100 percent cov- ers in an account with the National Bank was reduced to 25 percent. These deposits are not remu- nerated; if the importer is successful at the auction, the National Bank will open a letter of credit for the importer. Once the imports have arrived, foreign exchange is released by the National Bank against the import documents. The process may take up to six months, during which time the importer's deposit is held with the National Bank. Payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses, which can be obtained when a valid importer's license is presented. Applications for exchange licenses must be accompanied by informa- tion on costs and payment terms and by evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign exchange is not made available for imports included in a negative list. Most goods on this negative list may, however, be imported under the franco valuta arrangement (i.e., imports are financed with foreign exchange from external sources) without a license. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization from the Minister of Transport and Communications, and authorization is readily granted without restriction if the imports are financed with foreign exchange balances held abroad. Exchange licenses are granted in the cur- rency appropriate to the country of origin or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Pay- ments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable, but the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash-against-doc- uments basis. Certain imports (about 100 items, mostly con- sumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. All imports are subject to a general (ad valorem) sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 40 percent of their net earnings but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the pri- vate sector; they may remit a maximum of between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earnings dur- ing the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may take out the same maximum amount on final departure, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad for business purposes related to importing or exporting are granted foreign exchange up to $250 a day for a maximum period of 30 days in any one calendar year. For other business travel, the limits for tourism are applied. For tourism purposes, persons 18 years of age and over are allowed up to $300 a year. For government travel, the schedule of rates varies by country and city based on cost of living. Foreign exchange is not gen- erally available to pay for education abroad. Resi- dents sent abroad for training are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 1,200 a year. Res- idents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. The limit on foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad was increased from $5,000 to $10,000, and subsequently eliminated on July 10,1995. After providing for pay- ment of local taxes, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maxi- mum of Br 10 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti are prohibited. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, their destination, and their value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, exporters must obtain full insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing sys- tem is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see the section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports of raw hides and skins are regulated or prohibited until the needs of local factories are met. The exportation of coffee is subject to a coffee export du ty at the rate of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 169 Br 15 a quintal, a coffee export cess at the rate of Br 5 a quintal, and a coffee surtax. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethio- pian currency and must declare any foreign exchange in their possession entering Ethiopia. Except for short-term visitors, travelers must have authorization to re-export foreign exchange. Recon- version of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Authorization of the Exchange Controller is required for repatriation of capital, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes the evi- dence of inflows that is required for authorization. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate docu- mentation, foreign businessmen with nonregistered investments may transfer their capital abroad on liq- uidation and final departure from Ethiopia but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be depos- ited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. This regulation does not apply to joint ventures established under Council of State Special Decree No. 11/1989 (of July 5,1989) and investments made under Proclamation No. 15/1992 (of May 25, 1992). Transfers by emigrants who have operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Foreign investors are permitted to hold a majority share in a joint venture, except in the following sec- tors: precious metals, public utilities, telecommunica- tions, banking and insurance, transport, and trade in selected products deemed essential to the economy by law. All applications for joint ventures must be approved by the Investment Office; a minimum of 25 percent of share capital must be paid before regis- tration. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects and for up to three years for major extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemption from cus- toms duties and other specified import levies. Pro- ceeds from the liquidation of a joint venture (as well as dividends received from the activities of a joint venture and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares) may be remitted abroad in con- vertible currency without restriction. A joint venture may also transfer abroad in convertible currency payments for debts, fees, or royalties in respect of technology transfer agreements. Borrowing abroad requires approval from the Exchange Control Department and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad except on fixed-term deposit but may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without the permission of the National Bank. In addition, they need prior approval from the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with for- eign correspondents, borrow funds abroad, or accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold Ownership of gold or platinum personal jewelry is permitted. Unless authorized by the Minister of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw refined gold or platinum, or in the form of nuggets, ore, or bullion, is not permit- ted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethiopian Min- eral Resources Development Corporation to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement July 25. The official and marginal auction exchange rates were unified. Imports and Import Payments February 3. The negative list of imports excluded from the foreign exchange auction was narrowed to used goods and imports restricted for reasons of health and security. Payments for Invisibles February 3. The share of net earnings that foreign employees may remit abroad monthly was increased from 30 percent to 40 percent. February 3. The daily allowance of foreign exchange for business travelers was increased from $120 to $250, while the maximum period of days was raised from 20 to 30, and the requirement for an equivalent birr deposit was lifted. For tourism pur- poses, the allowance was raised to $300 a year from $50 a trip with a maximum of two trips a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 ETHIOPIA February 3. The limit for the provision of foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad was increased to $10,000 from $5,000. July 10. The limit for the provision of foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of January 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the external value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket consisting of the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The weights in the formula were reviewed annually, but the most recent revision was made in April 1993. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Fiji on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1995, the midpoint exchange rate for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar was F$1.4294 per US$1. The Reserve Bank provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange facilities are provided by authorized deal- ers for trade transactions for periods of up to six months for exports and nine months for imports. Fiji accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on August 4,1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank acting as agent of the Government; the Reserve Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and other cur- rent payments and transfers up to specified limits or full amounts in some cases. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji dollars through an external account or in any foreign currency.1 Resident and Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may open and operate an external account in Fiji dollars or a foreign currency account 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. 2 A nonresident is a person or f i rm whose coun try of normal do- micile or established residence is a coun t ry other th an Fiji. For in- dividuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for at least three years. with an authorized dealer without specific approval from the Reserve Bank. These accounts may be cred- ited freely with the account holders' salaries (net of tax), with interest payable on the account, with pay- ments from other external accounts, with the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder, and with Fiji banknotes that the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an external account or by the sale of foreign cur- rency in the country during a temporary visit. Exter- nal accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for which either general or specific author- ity has been given. External accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and pur- chases of foreign exchange. On January 1,1996, resi- dents (individuals) were allowed to open foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Exporters may retain up to 20 percent of proceeds from exports in foreign currency accounts and use the proceeds for import payments (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license; imports of bulk butter and lubrication oil products in any form require a specific license. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce is responsible for issuing import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, timber, and butter. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, for timber, by the Ministry of Forestry, and for butter, by the Ministry of Primary Industries and Cooperatives. Export licenses are issued by various government departments and monitored by the Comptroller of Customs. A wide range of consumer goods are imported by national cooperative societies under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific island countries. The importation of a few commod- ities from all sources is prohibited for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow pay- ments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Authorized banks may approve advance payments for imports of up to F$50,000 an applica- tion without specific approval from the Reserve Bank, if such payments are required by the supplier. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 FIJI Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted under a del- egated authority to authorized dealers up to specific limits, as follows: (1) family maintenance expenses, F$4,000 a year; (2) subscription payments for clubs, societies, and trade organizations, F$5,000 an appli- cation; (3) travel allowances, F$6,000 an applicant a trip; (4) payments of royalties, commissions, patents, brokerage, and copyrights, F$l 0,000 an application; (5) gift remittances, F$l,000 a donor a year; and (6) professional fees, F$l 0,000 a year a beneficiary. The use of credit cards for travel-related expenses is not restricted, except for a F$2,000 limit on its use for shopping on each trip; in addition, F$400 a month may be withdrawn in cash. Emigrants are allowed to transfer, after one year abroad, the full amount of the current year's dividends or profits earned on assets left in Fiji. Prior approval from the Reserve Bank is not required to make the following payments if they are accompanied by supporting documentary proof: (1) for medical treatment and for educational expenses, up to F$l 5,000, in addition to tuition fees, direct to the institution; (2) wage payments by shipping com- panies to foreign crew members, up to F$20,000; (3) advertising fees, up to F$l 0,000; (4) payments of charges for movie film rental and news services; (5) subscriptions to clubs, societies, and trade organiza- tions, up to F$l00,000; and (6) proceeds from the maturity of life insurance, up to F$l 5,000 an appli- cant, subject to completion of emigration procedures with the Reserve Bank. Amounts exceeding the established limits may be granted with the approval of the Reserve Bank upon presentation of docu- ments certifying that the payments are bona fide. Nonresident-owned companies must obtain per- mission from the Reserve Bank to transfer dividends abroad. Under the present policy, remittance of the current year's profits and three years' retained earn- ings that have not previously been remitted is allowed. The remittance abroad of rent accruing on properties owned by emigrants is permitted as part of the transfers of F$25,000 that each emigrant is allowed to make every six months (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for exports of sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain kinds of lumber, cer- tain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of export-licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for com- mercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value of more than F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds from exports within six months of the date of shipment of the goods from Fiji and may not, without specific permission, grant more than six months' credit to a nonresident buyer. Exporters may retain, with prior approval of the Reserve Bank, up to 20 percent of the 1993 export proceeds in foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized dealer or a foreign bank abroad; the rate of retention from each export receipt is not subject to control. Payments are admissible for imports of raw materials, professional and manage- ment fees, loan repayments, and remittances of prof- its and dividends. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely Fijian and foreign currency banknotes, but must declare them to customs or immigration officials on arrival in order to export the unused balance on departure. Residents are required to sell their for- eign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Receipts of interest, dividends, and amortization must be surrendered semiannually unless approval for reinvestment abroad has been granted by the Reserve Bank. Capital Repatriation of capital funds sources from, or withdrawal of foreign investment in, Fiji requires specific permission from the Reserve Bank, which is readily granted with evidence that the investment funds originated offshore. Foreign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from a nonresi- dent source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Special tax incen- tives and concessions are granted for investments that qualify under Fiji's Tax Free Factory/Zone sta- tus, and an investment allowance similar to that for hotels is provided for large-outlay investment projects that support the tourist industry. Nonresident-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in fu ll the proceeds from sales of assets and capital gains on investments of up to F$10 million a year. The transfer of inheritances and dowries owed to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a nonresident. The transfer of funds by emigrants on departure is limited to F$200,000 for a family and F$l00,000 for a single person; thereafter, the emigrant is allowed an automatic transfer of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 173 F$25,000 every six months commencing six months after emigration until the amount cleared by the Inland Revenue Department has been fully trans- ferred; emigrants intending to leave Fiji within 12 months are allowed to transfer up to F$100,000 a family and up to F$50,000 a single person. Nonresi- dents departing Fiji permanently may remit up to F$250,000 on departure and thereafter up to F$50,000 every six months. Overseas investments and other forms of capital transfers abroad have been temporarily suspended. The purchase of per- sonal property abroad is not permitted. Authorized dealers may lend up to F$l 00,000 to a newly established company or a branch of a com- pany in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons who reside outside Fiji and up to F$30,000 to individual nonresident customers; individual nonresident borrowers must repay their loans before leaving Fiji. Any amounts in excess of these limits require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. The banks may not lend foreign cur- rency to any resident of Fiji without the specific per- mission of the Reserve Bank. Residents must obtain prior permission from the Reserve Bank to borrow foreign currency in Fiji or abroad. Individuals are allowed to invest up to a maxi- mum of F$5,000 a family a year offshore for a total of up to F$10 million, as follows: F$5 million in foreign currency and F$5 million in securities to acquire for- eign currency securities. Nonbank financial institu- tions are allowed to invest offshore up to F$20 million on approval. Local companies are allowed to remit up to F$300,000 to set up sales office or subsid- iaries abroad. The proceeds from the sale or realiza- tion of such investment must be sold to authorized dealers. Authorized dealers must obtain permission from the Reserve Bank to borrow abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins, but not gold bullion, in Fiji. The exportation of gold coins, except numismatic coins and collectors' pieces, requires specific permission from the Reserve Bank. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance and Eco- nomic Planning; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins and gold bullion are exempt from fiscal duty but are subject to 10 percent value-added tax (VAT). Gold jewelry is also exempt from fiscal duty but subject to a 10 percent VAT and is not under licensing control. Samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if their value exceeds F$200. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export duty but require licenses if their value exceeds F$l,000. Exports of gold bullion are subject to an export duty of 3 percent. All newly mined gold is refined in Aus- tralia and sold at free market prices. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1996 Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 1. Residents (individuals) were allowed to open foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The limit on remittances of company profits was increased to operating profits earned during the current year plus retained earnings dur- ing the previous three years if not previously remit- ted (previously, two years); the limit for capital profits was increased to US$10 million a year from US$5 million a year. January 1. Allowances for education expenses were increased to F$15,000 from F$10,000; for gift payments, to F$l,000 from F$500; and for subscrip- tions to clubs, societies, and trade organizations, to F$100,000 from F$50,000. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. With prior approval of the Reserve Bank, exporters were allowed to retain up to 20 per- cent, previously 10 percent, of their total annual export earnings in a foreign currency account to meet import payments and other liabilities. Capital January 1. Nonbank financial institutions were allowed to invest up to US$20 million offshore in 1996. January 1. Emigration allowances were increased to F$200,000 from F$125,000 for a family, and to F$l00,000 from F$75,000 for a single person and, in both cases, to F$25,000 every six months thereafter. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka, the external value of which is determined on the basis of supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. Finland became a member of the European Union (EU) without entry into the exchange rate mechanism (ERM). Necessary adjust- ments have been implemented under the European Economic Area (EEA) agreement. The Finnish authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions. On December 29,1995, the middle rate for the U.S. dol- lar was Fmk 4.3435 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. For- ward premiums and discounts quoted by autho- rized banks reflect interest rate differentials in the countries of the currencies concerned. The Suomen Pankki (Bank of Finland) does not provide forward cover for commercial banks. Finland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on September 25,1979. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Export licensing is administered by the Ministry of Trade and Indus- try. The import licensing authority is the National Board of Customs; import licenses for firearms, etc., are issued by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Export licensing for agricultural products relating to GATT export ceilings is administered by the Intervention Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Finland notified the Fund on July 20,1995, of exchange restrictions pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution on Libya, and of changes in exchange restrictions pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution on Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro)1 as well as on certain areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Libya, and Iraq. lfThese restrictions were suspended in December 1995 pursu- ant to a UN Security Council Resolution. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency or through convertible accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in an autho- rized bank in any convertible currency, including Finnish markkaa. These accounts may be freely credited and debited. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported without a license. However, an import license is required for certain agricultural products, certain steel and textile products, and certain industrial products originat- ing from China. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisible transactions are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports are not subject to exchange control. Export licenses are required only for exports of goods related to international export con- trol regimes. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are not subject to controls. The funds may be held in a domestic for- eign currency account in Finland. The importation of domestic and foreign banknotes and coins is unrestricted. Capital Capital transactions, except the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in Finland, are allowed without restriction. Permits are required if the property is to be used for a vacation dwelling. There are no restrictions on foreign ownership in Finnish companies, but a monitoring system con- cerning the acquisition of the largest companies by foreigners is in place; this monitoring system does not apply to OECD country residents as of 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 175 January 1,1996. The system is intended to provide the Government with an opportunity to intervene if important national interests are considered to be in jeopardy. The international banking activities of autho- rized Finnish banks are free from regulation and subject only to certain supervisory reporting requirements. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Finland became a member of the EU without entry into the exchange rate mechanism (ERM). Necessary adjustments have been imple- mented under the EEA agreement. At the same time, membership in the European Free Trade Asso- ciation (EFTA) was terminated. March 1. Exchange rate losses resulting from for- eign-currency-denominated credits raised for pri- vate professional purposes are deductible in taxation according to the Income Tax Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France partic- ipates with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).1 The agreement implies that the Bank of France, the central bank, stands ready to buy or sell the cur- rencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31,1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Austrian schillings 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 Deutsche mark 1 Irish pound 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Portuguese escudos 100 Spanish pesetas Francs Upper limit Lower limit 65.35450 41.05330 18.88000 102.10000 389.48000 9.38950 345.65000 3.79920 4.57780 14.00500 75.72000 288.81000 6.96400 256.35000 2.51770 3.38510 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluc- tuations in exchange rates, the intervention curren- cies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Indicative rates for 21 currencies are published daily by the central bank on the basis of market rates.2 On Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central ex- change rates; the f luc tua t ional band of the deutsche mark and the Ne ther lands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. 2Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dol- lars, and Zairian new zai'res. December 31, 1995, the rate for the U.S. dollar was F 4.9000 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the over- seas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, and to the two CFA francs, which are the currencies of two groups of African countries that are linked to the French Trea- sury through an Operations Account.3 These fixed parities are CFPF1 per F 0.055 and CFAF1 per F 0.01, respectively. Registered banks in France and Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and for- ward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase foreign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents, including nonenterprise individuals, may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. France accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 15,1961. Administration of Control All exchange control regulations have been phased out on the basis of Decree No. 89-938 of December 29,1989. The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of the Economy is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers over matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all transfers has been dele- gated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls within the 3Benin, Burk ina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communaute financiere africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere en Afr ique centrale, issued by the BEAC). 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 177 framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE). Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate General of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and technical assistance contracts. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account coun- tries may be made in francs or in the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury.4 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident foreign accounts in francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts All residents, including individuals and enter- prises not engaged in international trade, are permit- ted to hold ECU-denominated accounts in France, accounts denominated in foreign currency in France or abroad, and accounts denominated in French francs abroad. Nonresident accounts in francs may be freely opened by registered banks for nonresidents, includ- ing French nationals (other than officials) who are residing abroad. Since March 1989, all restrictions on overdrafts and advances on nonresident-held franc accounts have been lifted. Emigrants of foreign or French nationality may take out all of their assets upon departure. In addi- tion, nonresidents may hold foreign currency accounts with French and foreign-owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods that originate outside the Euro- pean Union (EU) and that are subject to quantitative restrictions require individual licenses. Some imports from non-EU countries are subject to mini- mum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into three groups according to the extent of import liberalization (1) the former Organization for 4Comprising the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Ins t i tu te of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands). European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, United States, and Western Samoa; (2) some specified countries;5 and (3) China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongo- lia. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions, but restrictions are applied to a num- ber of agricultural and electronic products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods that may be imported freely from d ifferent coun- tries in this group. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) coun- tries. For some commodities, global quotas are allo- cated annually (for petroleum and petroleum products) or semiannually and apply to all coun- tries (other than those that have bilaterally negoti- ated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quan t i ta- tive restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EU are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; com- mon EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade con- trols but do require a customs document, which constitutes the customs declaration. For some liber- alized imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or by the appropri- ate ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) require such administra- tive visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. 5The Islamic State of Afghan is tan, Argentina, Aus tra l ia, Bhu- tan, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Republic of Ko- rea, Libyan A rab Jamah i r iya, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, N icaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philip- pines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Republic of Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 FRANCE Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and apply to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Imports of some products must pass through designated cus- toms offices. Documents accompanying goods pass- ing through customs must be written in or translated into French. Quantitative import restrictions consist of EU-wide restrictions and national restrictions. The former include bilaterally agreed restrictions on textile imports under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and voluntary export restraints on a number of agri- cultural and industrial products negotiated at the EU level. EU-wide restrictions are enforced through import licensing subject to prior authorization. National restrictions on imports from third countries that are in free circulation within the EU are enforced through temporary import restrictions authorized by the EU Commission under Article 115 of the EEC Treaty. In cases where the restrictions are not officially recognized by the EU (e.g., industry-to-industry understandings that do not directly involve member governments), import restrictions are enforced through national import licensing or standards and certification procedures. Automatic licensing is granted for imports that are under surveillance at either the EU or the national level. Payments for imports from foreign countries may be made by credit to a foreign account in francs, with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange market, or by debiting a foreign currency account in France or abroad. All residents and international trading houses may freely open accounts in foreign currencies in France with registered banks or abroad (also in French francs) without limit on the credit balance. Payments may be made by transfer through a registered bank, by credit card, by check, by com- pensation of debts or claims, or by banknotes. The amounts that may be transferred through postal channels are not subject to limitation, but, in prac- tice, the Postal Administration does not make import payments valued at over F 250,000. Regis- tered banks may, without special authorization, per- mit advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries by residents for current invisibles have to be reported for statistical purposes but are not restricted as to amount. Regis- tered banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for all categories of current invisibles without limitation. Remittances abroad for family support and donations to nonresidents are freely permitted. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. There are no limits on expenditures for travel abroad. There is no restriction on the amount of for- eign or domestic banknotes resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out, but amounts exceeding F 50,000 or its equivalent must be declared to cus- toms upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if their total value does not exceed F 10,000 (F 100,000 for art objects or collectors' items), they may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exporters are allowed to cover forward for an unlimited period and may hold foreign currency accounts at home and abroad without limit on the credit balance. Registered banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled by the receipts of the corresponding exports. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered exports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from transactions in invisibles may be retained. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any for- eign currency; amounts of F 50,000 or more, how- ever, must be declared to customs upon arrival. At the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, bank- notes issued by those countries may not be exchanged. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 179 exchange control; purchases of French and foreign securities abroad and the corresponding outward transfers of resident-owned capital are free; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely. Residents' capital assets abroad are not subject to repatriation. The transfer abroad of nonresident- owned funds, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with a registered bank in a for- eign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French securities held under a foreign dossier may also be sold in France, and the sale proceeds may be transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by nonresidents must be deposited with a registered bank; French securities held in France by nonresi- dents need not be deposited but may not be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Resi- dents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French registered bank or broker. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct investment, residents may purchase abroad, through registered banks abroad, French and foreign securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange. French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad but may also be imported and then either held or sold on a French stock exchange. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968, or later) may import them into France through a registered bank and hold them in a foreign dossier or sell them on a French stock exchange. The exchange control regulations include control over inward direct investments in existing French firms. The basis for control over foreign direct investments is Decree No. 89-938 of December 29, 1989, as amended by Decree No. 92-134 of February 1992, which applies to financial relations with all countries except Monaco and those belonging to the Operations Account area. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Any participation where foreign investors hold more than one-third of the capital is considered direct investment. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, the threshold is reduced to 20 percent of the capital and applies to each individual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the Ministry of Economy and Finance may also take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents and licenses, and commercial contracts. EU or non-EU investments in new firms are not subject to a prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy. Foreign direct investments in existing French firms generally require prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy. The following foreign investments, however, do not require increases in capital of subsidiaries in which foreign ownership or voting rights exceed 66.66 percent: loans and trans- actions involving less than F 10 million in craft trades; retail trade; hotels; restaurants; various com- mercial services; quarries and gravel pits; and acqui- sitions of agricultural lands except vineyards and wine-making properties. Juridical and natural per- sons may freely invest in any project that is at least 50 percent owned by juridical and natural persons residing in the EU, but the completion of the project must be reported to the Ministry of Economy. Invest- ments of EU groups having permanent recognition of EU status are not subject to any prior declaration and are required only to report to the Ministry of Economy within 20 days of completion. The Minis- ter of Economy may issue a finding within one month to prohibit the EU investment if public health, order, security, or national security is consid- ered to be in danger. Non-EU investments of less than F 50 million, if the turnover of the acquired firm is less than F 500 million, are not restricted but must be reported to the Ministry of Economy before com- pletion. The Minister of Economy may issue a find- ing within 30 days, at maximum, to prohibit the investment if public health, order, security, or national security is considered to be in danger. The Minister of Economy is allowed a one-month period, at maximum, during which a non-EU invest- ment can be suspended if the investment involves more than F 50 million or if the turnover of the acquired firm is more than F 500 million. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct invest- ment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of its occurrence. Foreign direct investments by residents are not restricted, but if such invest- ments exceed F 5 million, they must be reported to the Bank of France within 20 days. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds, if they exceed F 5 million, are reported to the Bank of France. Foreign issues on the French capital market, except issues originating in EU countries, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 FRANCE and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government, and (2) shares similar to securities that are already offi- cially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad in French francs or foreign cur- rencies by natural or juridical persons, whether pub- lic or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France or by branches or sub- sidiaries in France of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, is unrestricted. Application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as these activities relate to French firms engaged primarily in real estate business. Lending in French francs to nonresidents is not restricted. Registered banks are free to lend foreign currency to residents. Nonresi- dents may freely purchase French short-term securi- ties, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. and nonresidents have free access and in which nor- mally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having a fineness or a weight that is recog- nized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France are now governed by the regula- tions applying to ordinary goods. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration, as are imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. Most gold coins are traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coins are not subject to a value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold, except gold imported by the Bank of France, are subject to customs duty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coins are subject to a capital gains tax. Gold Changes During 1995 Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there before November 25,1968. There is a free gold mar- ket for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis dur- ing 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The offi- cial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign cur- rencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. Com- missions are levied at the rate of 0.25 percent on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and international public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Minis- try of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Participations because of the nature of their activities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territo- ries) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Came- roon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Gabon accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. Administration of Control The Directorate of Financial Institutions of the Min- istry of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Participations supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange ]The CFA f r anc c ircu la t ing in Gabon is issued by the Bank of Central A f r ican States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Came- roon, the Cen tral A f r ican Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Equa to- rial Gu inea. control is administered by the Minister of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Participations, who has partly delegated approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediar- ies —that is, the Postal Administration and autho- rized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by for- eign correspondents' authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities, with the exception of refined veg- etable oil, which requires prior approval. All imports whose value exceeds CFAF 500,000 from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to authorization. Quantitative restrictions are maintained only on imports of sugar. For perishables and spare parts, an anticipatory authorization is given to simplify administrative procedures. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products are subject to licensing, but, with a few exceptions that are established by minis- 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 GABON terial order,2 import authorizations are granted liber- ally. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance com- panies in Gabon. Effective January 30, 1994, a new tariff structure was introduced in the context of the UDEAC tax and customs reform. The common duty rates of the UDEAC member countries were reduced to 5 per- cent for basic necessities, to 10 percent for raw mate- rials and capital goods, to 20 percent for intermediate goods, and to 30 percent for consumer goods. There are quantitative restrictions on the importa- tion of sugar, but those on the importation of edible oils, bottled water, soap, and cement were lifted on July 5,1994. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authorizations duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Participations (Directorate of Financial Institutions) entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment, the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties accruing to nonresidents are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payments other than banknotes. Allowances for travel to countries out- side the franc zone are subject to the following regu- lations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in Currently totaling about 30 items, including cement, ham, mineral water, plastic goods, sugar, batteries, and refined vegeta- ble oil. excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Participations or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Par- ticipations is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Bona fide requests for travel allowances in excess of the existing limits have been granted. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travel- ers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the non- resident traveler is not restricted, subject to docu- mentation that they were purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of for- eign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank- notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require authorization, irrespective of des- tination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun- try must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 150 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign cur- rency, surrendered within one month of the due date. All export taxes, other than those on mining and forestry products, have been eliminated; the taxes on mining and forest products are 0.5 percent and 5 percent to 11 percent, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 183 from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BE AC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital trans- fers to all other countries exceeding CFAF 500,000 are restricted and require the approval of the Directorate of Financial Institutions, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. All foreign secu- rities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be depos- ited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securi- ties in Gabon; these controls apply to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or intro- duction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Par- ticipations unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistrib- uted profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of invest- ments must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a share- holding that had previously been approved as con- stituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Min- istry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits. Within two months of receipt of the declara- tion, the Ministry may request the postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct Including those made through foreign companies th at are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of the operation. (Direct investments are defined as those that imply control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government; and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Participations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transac- tions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above whose total outstanding amount does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. How- ever, the contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization and each repayment must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the operation unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Participations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans whose total outstanding amount does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one lender. However, loans that are free ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 GABON of authorization and each repayment must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the operation except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of July 6, 1989, any enterprise established in Gabon, domestic or for- eign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified income. In addition to fiscal privileges, the code provides for four catego- ries of preferential treatment. Eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, public credit, and government contracts. Foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals for an amount equivalent to at least 10 percent of the com- panies' capital. Non-Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). The exportation of gold is the monopoly of the Societe gabonaise de recherches et d'exploitation minieres. However, imports of gold exempted from licensing and autho- rization requirements are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Gold Changes During 1996 Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of June 1. Gabon accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, with the Central Bank of The Gambia or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The Central Bank conducts a foreign exchange market review session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the com- mercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus. Dur- ing this session, the average market rate during the week is announced as the rate for customs valuation purposes for the following week. On December 31, 1995, the midpoint exchange rate of the dalasi in the interbank market was D 9.6492 per $1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Gambia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on January 21,1993. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Act was repealed in November 1992, and no exchange controls are in force. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received from nonresident sources in dalasis or in any convertible currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), and also Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Mone- tary Agency. External Accounts Accounts denominated in dalasis held by resi- dents of other countries are designated external accounts. Such accounts may be opened without ref- erence to the Central Bank when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holder's source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Designated external accounts may be credited with payments from residents of other countries, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other external accounts, and for pur- chases of other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources for social, health, or security reasons. All other imports are freely permitted under open general licenses. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10 percent of the c.i.f. value; imports by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charita- ble organizations are exempt from this tax. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Visitors to The Gambia are not required to declare foreign currency in their possession. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. The exportation of all other goods can take place without individual licenses. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no restriction on the importation of for- eign currency notes or Gambian banknotes. Capital Inward transfers for purposes of direct equity investment are not restricted but must be reported to the Central Bank for statistical purposes. Prior approval from the Central Bank is not required for residents or nonresidents to accept loans in foreign currency from any source. Commercial banks may provide overdraft facili- ties to members of diplomatic and international mis- sions in The Gambia. Loans and advances by commercial banks to nonresidents do not require authorization from the Central Bank, however, it continues to set limits on foreign exchange working balances held by the commercial banks and 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 THE GAMBIA exchange bureaus; amounts held in excess of these limits must be offered for sale in the interbank mar- ket or offered to the Central Bank. These limits must be observed on a weekly basis and transactions must be reported daily to the Central Bank. In addition, The Gambia Telecommunication Company (Gam- Tel), which is a parastatal organization, is tempo- rarily permitted to maintain limited working balances in foreign exchange. The limits must be observed on a monthly basis, and the amounts held must be reported within the same period to the Cen- tral Bank. Any amount in excess of the limit must be surrendered to a commercial bank in The Gambia. Gold The importation of gold coins and bullion requires the approval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA (Position as of January 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Georgia is the Lari, the external value of which is determined in daily fixing sessions held at the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange (TICEX) in which the National Bank of Georgia and the major commercial banks participate. The official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is determined in these sessions. The official rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the inter- national market. The official exchange rates are used for budget and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the Government and enterprises and other legal entities. On December 31, 1995, the official exchange rate quoted by the National Bank for the U.S. dollar was lari 1.23, per $1. For all commercial transactions, the exchange rate of the lari is negotiated freely between the banks and foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed by the National Bank and their customers. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign currency notes. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The National Bank of Georgia law, which came into effect in 1995, provides the bank with exchange control authority. Decree No. 259 of March 5, 1992, the First Stage of Liberalization of Foreign Exchange Activity, established the legal basis for the conduct of foreign economic activities in Georgia. The main provisions of this decree (1) allow all enterprises to engage directly in foreign trade, (2) allow all resi- dents to acquire and hold foreign currency and engage in foreign transactions with a licensed for- eign exchange dealer, and (3) authorize banks to open foreign exchange accounts for all residents. Trade with countries other than the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union is controlled by the State Committee on For- eign Economic Relations (SCFER) (Decree No. 265 of March 31,1993, on Quotas and Licensing of Mer- chandise Trade). The National Bank has the authority to issue gen- eral foreign exchange licenses to banks that will per- mit them to engage in foreign exchange transactions with residents and nonresidents and to open corre- spondent accounts with banks outside Georgia. The National Bank also has the authority to issue inter- nal licenses to banks that will permit them to engage in the same range of foreign exchange transactions as general license holders, except that holders of internal licenses may not open correspondent accounts with banks abroad. All transfers of foreign exchange by holders of internal licenses must be car- ried out through correspondent accounts held either with the National Bank or with a bank that holds a general license. As of the end of December 1995, 43 banks held general licenses, while 35 banks held internal licenses. The National Bank also has the authority to issue licenses for the establishment of exchange bureaus to authorized banks in Georgia. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union and certain other countries are made in some cases through a system of correspondent accounts and in other cases in convertible currency. Settlements with other countries may be made in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individuals and enterprises are permit- ted to open and operate foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks. There are no restrictions on the use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for all authorized transactions. The opening of for- eign exchange accounts abroad by resident natural persons is not restricted. The requirement for resi- dent legal persons to obtain authorization of the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank is waived. Nonresidents may maintain foreign exchange and local currency accounts with banks in Georgia. Imports and Exports There are no quantitative restrictions on imports, and licenses are not required, except for weapons, narcotics, industrial equipment, pharmaceuticals, and agricultural pesticides; licenses are issued by the SCFER. A customs duty of 12 percent is levied on all imports, except food items (excluding tobacco and alcoholic beverages) and imports under barter oper- 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 GEORGIA ations, irrespective of the currency denomination of the contract. A customs duty of 20 percent is levied on all imports under barter operations but not on imports under government agreements. All imports are subject to a general customs processing fee of 0.2 percent. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be purchased freely from authorized banks at market rates. There is no legal prohibition on exports, but licenses are required for items such as food and raw materials. Exports of arms, narcotics, precious met- als, and some raw materials are subject, in practice, to prohibitions. The licensing of exports is adminis- tered by the SCFER, which takes into account whether exports would create shortages of goods in the domestic market. All exports are subject to a gen- eral customs processing fee of 0.2 percent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may freely purchase foreign exchange to make payments for invisible transactions or use foreign exchange balances in their foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks without restriction. Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same reg- ulations and procedures as those applicable to pro- ceeds from exports. The importation of foreign currency notes is unre- stricted, but amounts must be declared on arrival. The exportation of foreign currency notes by nonres- idents is permitted up to a limit equal to the amount originally imported. Residents may export up to the equivalent of $500 without restriction. Amounts in excess of $500 are subject to a "special fee" ranging from 2 percent for amounts up to the equivalent of $10,000 to 3 percent for amounts above $10,000. Capital Inward and outward capital operations are not restricted but are subject to registration require- ments for monitoring purposes. Gold A license is required to conduct both international and domestic trade in gold. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement September 25. A new national currency, the lari, was introduced, with 100 tetri equal to 1 lari. Administration of Control July 1. The National Bank law provided the bank with exchange control authority. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The frequency of auctions in the TICEX was increased to daily from three times weekly. Imports and Exports January 1. The previous requirement for exporters to surrender 32 percent of proceeds in convertible currencies to the National Bank was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany participates with Austria, Belgium, Den- mark, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 The arrangements imply that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates.2 On December 31,1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Austrian schillings 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Portuguese escudos 100 Spanish pesetas Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 16.5050 12.2410 5.6300 30.4450 34.6250 2.8000 90.7708 1.1328 1.3650 4.1750 22.5750 25.6750 2.0760 86.7800 0.8401 1.0123 In principle interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies but may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Par- ticipants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits but do inter- vene from time to time to smooth out erratic fluctua- tions in exchange rates. Official middle buying and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange market of Frankfurt am Main.3 On Decem- ber 31,1995, the official middle rate for the U.S. dol- 1 Austria became a member of the European Union (EU) on Jan- uary 1,1995 and joined the ERM of the EMS on Janua ry 9,1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened to ±15 percent from ±2.25 percent (and ±6 percent respectively) around the bilateral exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. 3Austrian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pese- tas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. lar was DM 1.4335 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate for- ward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible cur- rencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market, and all transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Germany accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Febru- ary 15,1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics; the Federal Ministry of Finance; the Federal Ministry of Transportation; the Federal Office for Economics; the Federal Office for Export Control; the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and Forestry; the Federal Office for Food and Forestry; the Federal Office for Agricul- tural Marketing Organization; and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Germany notified the Fund on November 5, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and trans- fers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro). Furthermore, in compliance with UN reso- lutions, restrictions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of Iraq and the Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya. Imports and Import Payments The import list comprises 10,370 statistical posi- tions. Their treatment is as follows: The importation of 1,363 textile items (under the arrangements regarding international trade in textiles) and of cer- tain steel items is governed by bilateral agreements and regulations of the European Union (EU) with various supplier countries. Imports of pit coal from countries that are not members of the EU and the 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 GERMANY European Free Trade Association (EFTA) are permit- ted within the framework of an annual global quota. Imports of brown coal are subject to import licensing from countries on country List C4 except Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slo- vak Republic. The importation of certain nontextile goods from China is subject to an annual global quota of the EU. The Common Agricultural Policy of the EU covers 2,054 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies, which have in large part replaced previous barriers to imports. A new recording system for imports of goods and ser- vices from other EU member countries was put in place with the completion of the single European market on January 1,1993. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Commod- ity futures may be dealt in freely, and most transit trade transactions may be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the conclu- sion of related sea freight contracts; the use of for- eign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; and transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine lia- bility insurance and aviation insurance, except pas- senger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions (for strategic goods), export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual or general licensing. The cus- toms authorities exercise control over export decla- rations. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require a license. However, licenses 4Countries on List C are Albania, the former member countries of the Council for Mu tu al Economic Assistance (CMEA) except China, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Vietnam. All other countries are on List A or B. are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance involving the delivery to residents of non-OECD countries of con- struction drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture, if such assistance is for the production of goods whose exportation requires a license (stra- tegic goods). There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. All resident banks, includ- ing legally independent foreign-owned banks, may lead or manage issues of bonds denominated in deutsche mark. Domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported and exported freely. No restrictions are applied to the sale of German money market papers and fixed-interest securities by residents to nonresidents. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, purchases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and pur- chases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by non- residents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to minimum reserve require- ments on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years of 2 percent on sight deposits and 1.5 percent on savings and time deposits; these requirements are, in principle, the same as those applied to domestic liabilities. Book liabilities to nonresidents in foreign currency are exempt from reserve requirements to the extent of the book claims on nonresidents in foreign currency with maturities of less than four years. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form and may negotiate with residents or nonresidents, both at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfurt am Main. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unre- stricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 191 Imports of gold bullion and coins, unworked gold, and gold alloys, while free of customs duty, are subject to value-added tax at the rate of 15 percent. In the case of imports of gold coins on which the assessment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 percent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundes- bank are exempt from value-added tax and customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is lev- ied on transactions in gold bullion carried out on gold exchanges between brokers admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of arti- cles containing gold are subject to the general for- eign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes During 1995 Capital August L The minimum reserve ratios on sight and savings deposits were reduced to 2 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively. Cash holdings were excluded from the assets eligible for meeting the reserve requirement. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis dur- ing 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi, whose exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. The average exchange rate in this market is used for official valuation purposes but is not always applied by authorized banks in their transac- tions with each other or with their customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currencies1 with daily quotations based on the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Rates for certain nonconvertible currencies of the West African region, including the Nigerian naira, are also quoted daily but are applied only to transactions under the West African Clearing House arrangement. The other quoted nonconvertible cur- rencies are the Gambian dalasi, the Guinean franc, the Sierra Leonean leone, the Guinea-Bissau peso, and the Mauritanian ouguiya. Authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency. On December 31, 1995, the exchange rate in the interbank market was C 1,446.14 per $1. Any person, bank, or institution licensed by the Bank of Ghana is allowed to operate a foreign exchange bureau. Foreign exchange bureaus may purchase traveler's checks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars and may purchase and sell currency notes only in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French (and CFA) francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In practice, how- ever, traveler's checks in other foreign currencies and other foreign currency notes are also transacted in this market. Sellers of foreign exchange to the bureaus are not required to identify their sources. Each foreign exchange bureau is free to quote buy- ing and selling rates. All bona fide imports and approved services may be funded through the bureaus. All authorized foreign exchange dealers (which include some nonbank foreign exchange bureaus) are subject to limits on their net open posi- tions in foreign exchange; holdings of foreign exchange in excess of these limits must be sold to other dealers or to the Bank of Ghana. International organizations, embassies, and simi- lar institutions are not permitted to transfer funds into Ghana through any foreign exchange bureau or to carry out foreign exchange transactions under the foreign exchange bureau scheme. There are no arrangements for forward exchange transactions, currency swaps, or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt-service payments. Ghana accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Febru- ary 2,1994. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports of the Min- istry of Trade is empowered to prohibit or regulate all imports. The Foreign Transactions Examinations Office (FTEO) of the Bank of Ghana records and con- firms foreign capital inflows and administers foreign exchange for official payments and travel. All for- eign exchange transactions by the private sector are approved and transacted by authorized banks with- out reference to the Bank of Ghana. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and resi- dents of other countries may be made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transac- tions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the countries concerned. Ghana maintains bilateral pay- ments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. These agreements are inoperative, and the clearing balances are being settled. Proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or be debited for authorized inward payments to resi- dents of Ghana, for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country, and for trans- fers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Nonresident Accounts Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pe- setas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Nonresident account status is granted to embas- sies, legations, consulates, and offices of high com- missioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staffs. It is also available to interna- 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 193 tional institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana and to nonresident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts must be approved by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other foreign accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currency. They may be deb- ited for inward payments, for transfers to other for- eign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts maintained under the pro- visions of bilateral payments agreements are called official accounts or territorial accounts. They may be credited with authorized outward payments by resi- dents; with transfers from foreign accounts; with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries; and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country, and for trans- fers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresi- dents —for example, certain types of capital pro- ceeds —may be deposited in blocked accounts, which may be debited for authorized payments, including for purchases of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports, except for those prohibited for reasons of health and security and those prohibited by Ghana- ian laws, are not subject to all import-licensing requirements, but importers are required to file an Import Declaration Form, which is not subject to approval, through the authorized banks for statisti- cal purposes. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Pro- curement Agency, while public sector imports must go through the Ghana Supply Commission. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through authorized Ghanaian banks on a sight basis. For all imports other than pharmaceutical products and canned, bottled, and other prepacked food products valued at more than $3,000 (f.o.b.), authorized banks are not allowed to make payments against letters of credit or bank d ra f ts unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by international agencies with respect to the goods and unless they verify the price, quality, and quan t i ty in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are approved and effected by authorized banks, provided that applica- tions are supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to over- seas banks for import payments are generally autho- rized. Commission payments on imports are permitted up to a limit of 3 percent of f.o.b. value. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry a maximum of $3,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies. In addition, resident travelers are permitted to carry a maximum of $5,000 or its equivalent in other foreign curren- cies, in bank drafts or traveler's checks for direct purchases abroad. However, all bona fide applica- tions in excess of the specified limits are approved. Authorized dealer banks are permitted to remit profits and foreign investments without prior approval from the Bank of Ghana. The exportation of Ghanaian banknotes is permitted up to 5,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of narcotics and carrots are prohibited, as are goods prohibited by Ghanaian laws. With the exception of cocoa, which is exported through the Cocoa Board, exports of agricultural commodities have been liberalized. Diamonds are exported through the Precious Minerals Marketing Corpora- tion and the Ghana Consolidated Diamond Com- pany. Exports of cocoa are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export proceeds, on the one hand, and payments to farmers together with the Cocoa Board's operational costs, on the other, if the proceeds exceed the payments. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate in full the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; pro- ceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35 percent of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts. However, the retention ratio is 60 percent for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 20 percent for log exporters, and 2 percent for the Cocoa Board. The retention scheme does not apply to exports of residual oil and electricity. However, receipts from the exportation of electricity do not have to be surrendered to the Bank of Ghana. Retained earnings may be held in accounts abroad for financing essential imports or credited to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 GHANA exporters' foreign exchange accounts with banks located in Ghana. Provided that payments from the foreign exchange accounts of exporters are sup- ported by relevant documents, retained export earn- ings may be sold at the foreign exchange bureaus or be used to import goods through a bank, to purchase airline tickets, or for foreign travel, for medical ser- vices, or educational expenses abroad, or for any other approved invisibles payments. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Repurchases of foreign exchange acquired for the purpose of foreign travel are subject to a processing fee of 0.5 percent. Capital Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the Investment Code of 1981, under which approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquida- tion, capital proceeds. Tax holidays and initial capi- tal allowances are also available for such investments. The code stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Disputes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance with the established procedure for con- ciliation —for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. Certain areas of eco- nomic activity are not open to foreigners. The pro- ceeds from sales of foreign ownership to Ghanaian nationals are permitted to be transferred by autho- rized dealer banks. Under a supplementary investment code issued in July 1985, incentives are provided to promote for- eign investments that promise to be net foreign exchange earners. The main features of the 1981 and 1985 codes, which offer incentives and guarantees to encourage foreign investments in areas other than petroleum and mining (already covered by a miner- als code), are as follows: (1) exemption from customs duties on imports of plant machinery and equip- ment; (2) more favorable depreciation or capital allowances; (3) permission to operate an external account in which at least 25 percent of the investing company's foreign exchange earnings may be retained for procuring machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials; for servicing of debt; and for transfers of dividends and profits; (4) guarantee for the remittance of foreign capital in the event of sale or liquidation; and (5) protection against expropriation. The minimum qualifying amount of investment capital is $60,000 for joint ven- tures with a Ghanaian partner and $100,000 for enterprises that are wholly foreign owned. Under the Ghana Investment Promotion Center Act of 1994 (Act 478), the minimum qualifying amount of investment by a non-Ghanaian are as fol- lows: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity participation in a joint-venture enter- prise with a Ghanaian partner; (2) $450,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity where the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in goods by way of equity capital where the enterprise shall employ at least 10 Ghanaians in the trading enterprise, involv- ing the purchasing and selling of goods, which is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian. All outgoing capital movements must be approved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to benefi- ciaries under wills and intestacies are approved pro- vided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds representing per- sonal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emi- grate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate doc- umentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies do not require approval. Resident individuals are not normally granted for- eign exchange for the acquisition of securities or per- sonal real estate abroad. Nonresidents may deal in securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange and they may hold up to 10 percent of such security list- ings. Total holdings of all external residents in a com- pany may not exceed 14 percent. For portfolio investments, residents must obtain approval to switch holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Private sector and commercial bank borrowing requires the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do pri- vate import credits for machinery and equipment valued at $100,000 or more. Foreign borrowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to certain government guidelines. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits, which require exchange control approval and are normally limited to 60 days. Under a system of external accounts for debt- service payments introduced in 1980 to enable export-oriented industries to receive external aid, the industries are allowed to operate foreign exchange accounts (in addition to their regular ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 195 retention accounts) with funds earmarked from export earnings for the purpose of debt-service pay- ments. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Committee on Suppliers' Credits and the Bank of Ghana; the latter also monitors receipts and payments out of these accounts. Accounts have also been established for the dia- mond sector and for the fishing and timber compa- nies financed with suppliers' credits. out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Pro- tection Ordinance. Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on gold, including bullion and partly worked gold, is levied at a uniform rate of 30 percent. The gold mines export their output in semirefined form. Gold Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, the main interven- tion currency, and other currencies1 are determined during a daily fixing session, in which the Bank of Greece and the authorized commercial banks partici- pate. In the domestic spot exchange market, the com- mercial banks quote their own rates. On December 31, 1995, buying and selling rates in the interbank market for the U.S. dollar were Dr 236.329 and Dr 237.751, respectively, per $1. The commercial banks may levy a commission on all foreign exchange transactions on the domestic spot and forward exchange market. Credit institutions in Greece may also freely con- duct forward foreign exchange transactions, includ- ing currency swaps and options. The Bank of Greece provides credit institutions forward foreign exchange transactions including currency swaps and options. Greece is a member of the European Monetary System (EMS). The drachma is included in the ECU basket, but Greece does not participate in the exchange rate mechanism of the EMS. Greece accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 22,1992. Administration of Control Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the Bank of Greece. Commercial banks are autho- rized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of imports and exports. For statistical purposes, natural and legal persons must inform the Bank of Greece of transactions of sums greater than ECU 2,000 if a domestic banking institution is not involved. The commercial banks are also authorized to undertake transactions in foreign exchange for invis- ibles and capital transactions within the framework of existing regulations. Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- d ian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eu- ropean currency un i ts (ECUs), French francs, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kro- nor, and Swiss francs. 196 Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through nonresident deposit accounts in drachmas. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Nonresident Accounts in Drachmas Accounts in foreign currency. These accounts may be maintained in Greece by nonresident persons and entities, foreigners of Greek origin residing abroad, Greek nationals residing and working abroad (including seamen), Greek residents, and nonprofit private legal entities with a head office in Greece. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange brought into Greece and with foreign banknotes brought into Greece and declared upon entry. Principal and interest on these accounts are freely transferable abroad. Savings and time depos- its may be opened for up to 12 months. Greek resi- dents may also open these accounts with undeclared foreign banknotes; principal and interest on these accounts may be withdrawn in drachmas and in for- eign exchange but may not be transferred abroad. The Bank of Greece sets a maximum interest limit on these accounts, except for the rate on residents' deposits, which is fixed by the Bank of Greece, and the rate on nonresidents' deposits in certain curren- cies, which is negotiable. Greek residents may also maintain accounts in foreign currency with foreign financial institutions abroad, provided that their original maturity is at least one year. Foreign exchange loan facilities of credit institutions are authorized to all natural and legal persons residing in Greece. Deposits in foreign exchange are now per- mitted for money originating from foreign exchange loan facilities. Nonresident accounts in drachmas. Nonresidents may open sight and time deposits in convertible drachmas. These accounts may be credited with (1) drachma proceeds from foreign exchange; (2) trans- fers of drachmas from other similar accounts of the same or other depositors, as long as the proceeds do not originate from restricted short-term transactions; and (3) drachmas derived from liberalized transac- tions. Interest rates on these deposits are freely nego- tiable. Credit institutions operating in Greece are allowed to invest these deposits in the drachma market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 197 Blocked accounts. Claims of non-European Union (EU) residents denominated in drachmas and deposited in blocked accounts can be withdrawn and transferred abroad without the approval of the Bank of Greece. Imports and Import Payments Imports from the member countries of the EU are not subject to approval or clearance procedures. Approval for imports from non-EU member coun- tries is granted automatically by the commercial banks, either before or after the goods are shipped and the required amount of foreign exchange is made available. Imports of certain products from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are prohib- ited. Special import licenses are required for textiles and iron and steel products that come from low-cost countries; these products are under surveillance according to EU quotas. Special regulations govern imports of certain items such as medicines, narcot- ics, and motion picture films. Import payments are not subject to official regula- tions; in almost all cases, they are effected on the basis of agreements between the contracting parties. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are permitted to provide for- eign exchange for all invisible payments. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends are governed by the regulations that are applied to capital transfers to Greece (see section on Capital, below). Remittances for family maintenance and earnings by foreign workers are permitted, subject to documentary requirements regarding proof of need and source of income. The monthly foreign exchange allowance for studies and for trips abroad is ECU 2,000 a per- son. Foreign banks operating in Greece are permit- ted to repatriate their profits, irrespective of the nature of their operations. Nonresidents leaving Greece within a year of their arrival may take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $1,000, as well as traveler's checks and other means of payment in their name, irrespective of amount; they may also take out Dr 20,000 in Greek banknotes. Larger amounts in foreign bank- notes can be taken out no later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which the nonresident entered Greece, provided that the bank- notes are declared upon entry into Greece. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain products to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment of the goods. In special cases, the authorities may extend this time limit by approving time settlement of the value of exports. Export goods are not subject to the value-added tax. Exporters are allowed to maintain balances in for- eign currency accounts equivalent to 20 percent of proceeds from exports in the previous calendar year with banks operating in Greece. Exporters may use these balances to repay external obligations, includ- ing suppliers' credits, and to conduct authorized capital transactions. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings representing payments for services must be surrendered within 90 days of the date of issue of the relevant invoice; 10 percent of these earnings from the previous calendar year may also be deposited in foreign currency accounts with banks operating in Greece. Earnings from ocean- going shipping operations are exempt from the sur- render requirements, but shipowners must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece by con- verting foreign exchange into drachmas. Greek residents may bring in any amount of for- eign exchange but must declare it upon entry, if they wish to take it out on their next departure, not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which they entered Greece; they may also bring in a maximum of Dr 40,000 in banknotes. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, provided they do not intend to take out amounts in excess of the equivalent of $1,000. Traveler's checks and other means of payment in a traveler's name are not sub- ject to a limit. The amount of Greek banknotes that a nonresident may bring into Greece is limited to Dr 100,000. Capital Greek natural and juridical persons are allowed to borrow foreign exchange from banks, foreign juridi- cal persons, or individuals residing abroad without prior approval from the Bank of Greece. Authorized credit institutions operating in Greece may conduct any transaction in foreign exchange, including cur- rency and interest rate swaps and transactions in derivatives with residents and nonresidents, and they may extend loans in any form and currency to nonresidents on freely negotiated terms. The following direct investments by residents of non-EU member countries are restricted: (1) invest- ment in border regions; (2) investment in maritime transport; (3) acquisition of mining rights; and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 GREECE (4) participation in new or existing enterprises if these are engaged in radio and television broadcast- ing or air transport. Direct investments are governed by Legislative Decree No. 2687/1953, Presidential Decrees Nos. 207/1987 and 96/1993, Acts of the Governor of the Bank of Greece Nos. 825/1986 and 2227/1993. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sover- eigns from the Bank of Greece at the price it has set through licensed stockbrokers. These gold coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before December 22, 1965, may sell them without any for- mality to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange require a special license; licenses are normally issued to importers for distribution to jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported for other than commer- cial purposes when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not authorized, except when gold bars or coins are brought in by travelers and declared upon entry, in which case they may be re-exported after being approved by the Bank of Greece. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement February 10. The authorities announced a targeted rate of depreciation against the ECU of 3 percent by the end of 1995. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis dur- ing 1995.) Capital May 16. Manufacturing firms were permitted to extend loans in foreign exchange to exporters and to hold deposits in foreign exchange with earned for- eign exchange income. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of February 1,1996) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with com- mercial banks were EC$2.7169 and EC$2.682, respec- tively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Grenada accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Janu- ary 24,1994. Administration of Control Exchange control, which is administered by the Ministry of Finance, applies to all countries. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the author- ity to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers trade control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 may be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars, in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from external accounts. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency3 or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. ]The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. ^he CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. Authorized dealers may open external accounts for nonresidents and residents without permission from the Ministry of Finance. Nonresidents may also maintain these accounts in Eastern Caribbean dol- lars. Foreign currency accounts may be freely deb- ited but may be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the Eastern Carib- bean area. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts without referring to the Ministry of Finance. Such accounts may be freely debited but can be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be freely imported, but there are certain goods whose importation is prohibited or that are subject to quantitative restrictions and require a license. Prohibited goods are identified within various laws that pertain to trade, agricul- ture, national security, and health and include whole chickens, chicken eggs, live breeding poultry, war toys, animal skins, and various drugs deemed to be dangerous. Restricted items from non-CARicoM sources include milk, sugar, rice, a variety of tropical fruits and vegetables, carbonated beverages, arms and ammunition, industrial gas, paints, and miscel- laneous items associated with furniture, clothing, and the construction industry. Items from the CARICOM area that require licenses include curry products, beer, cigarettes, industrial gas, furniture, exotic birds, solar water heaters, and various tropi- cal fruits and vegetables. Payments for documented imports are free of restrictions. Payments for restricted imports and any goods (and services) in excess of the limits of autho- rized dealers require permission from the Ministry of Finance. Imports of capital equipment are exempt from import duties, as are imports by domestic associa- tions involved in the production of major crops, pro- vided that such imports are intended for quality improvements in the growing or packaging of bananas, nutmeg, and maize. Imports of fuel by the 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 GRENADA Grenada Electric Company are exempt from cus- toms duty as are the fuel imports of a substantial number of enterprises in the manufacturing and hotel industries. Imports that are not exempt from customs duties are subject to a consumption tax of either 15 percent, 20 percent, or 55 percent. All imports are subject to a customs service charge of 50 percent, and all non-CARicoM goods are subject to the common external tariff of 30-35 percent. Payments for Invisibles Authority has been delegated to authorized deal- ers to provide allocations of foreign exchange for payments for invisibles, of up to EC$100,000 a per- son a year. Applications for additional amounts are approved by the Ministry of Finance provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Non- resident travelers may export, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, any foreign currency they previously brought into Grenada. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. There exists a short list of items that require a license prior to exporta- tion from Grenada. These include exotic birds, coral, mineral products, and live sheep and goats. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export pro- ceeds are surrendered within a certain period after the date of shipment, but export proceeds must be repatriated. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins in Eastern Caribbean currency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents may not purchase for- eign currency securities or real estate abroad for pri- vate purposes. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which is normally granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. The transfer of funds by emigrants is allowed. The Ministry of Finance considers transfer applications from foreign nation- als who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad on a case-by- case basis. With exchange control approval, nonresidents may invest directly in Grenada. The remittance of earnings on, and the liquidation of proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that all related liabilities have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance. Nonresidents may use foreign currency to acquire real estate in Grenada for private pur- poses; local currency financing is not ordinarily per- mitted. The repatriation of proceeds from the realization of investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for residents to borrow abroad or for non- residents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies to finance approved transfers for both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any bor- rowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Effective March 15, 1991, all restrictions on transfers of Eastern Caribbean dollars from Grenada to countries served by the ECCB were eliminated. Gold Residents other than monetary authorities, autho- rized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The Min- istry of Finance issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not normally permitted. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1996 Payment for Invisibles February 1. The limit on foreign exchange a person may purchase from authorized dealers without obtaining exchange control approval was increased to EC$100,000 from EC$10,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal. Since March 14, 1994, exchange rates have been determined in the interbank market according to market forces. Participants in the interbank mar- ket are the Bank of Guatemala, banks, foreign exchange houses, and any other institution autho- rized by the Monetary Board. The Bank of Guate- mala intervenes in the exchange market only to moderate undue fluctuations, to purchase foreign exchange on behalf of the public sector, and to ser- vice its own external debt. All foreign exchange transactions of the public sector must take place through the Bank of Guatemala at a reference rate that is equivalent to the weighted average of the buying and selling rates in the interbank market during the day before the previous business day. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the bank market were Q 5.99034 and Q 6.01834, respectively, per $1. Buy- ing and selling rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are freely quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. The Bank of Guatemala does not issue exchange rate guarantees. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Banks and finance companies may maintain a net foreign exchange position of up to 25 percent of the value of their paid-up capital and reserves; for the foreign exchange houses, this limit is set at 100 percent. Foreign exchange exceeding these lim- its at the end of each day must be negotiated in the interbank market or sold to the Bank of Guatemala. Guatemala accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on January 27,1947. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange and International Depart- ment (FEID) of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Foreign Exchange Regime. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are made through any authorized participant in the interbank market other than the Bank of Guatemala. Exports of goods must be regis- tered in the FEID to guarantee repatriation of the cor- responding foreign exchange proceeds. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars, domestic currency, or other means of payment, in accordance with spe- cial payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Guatemala is a member of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Import tariff rates on goods from outside the region range from 1 percent to 20 percent, in accordance with Guatemala's agree- ment with other Central American countries on a common external tariff, and virtually all goods traded among Central American countries are exempted from tariffs. The average weighted tariff was about 7.5 percent in 1994 and 8.0 percent in 1995. At present, about 3 percent of imported items, such as vehicles and beverages, are subject to tariffs that were established freely by each member country of the CACM. The agreement provides temporary exceptions for textiles, clothing, and footwear. On December 31, 1995, the tariffs on textiles and foot- wear were 20 percent, on tires 15 percent, and on clothing 25 percent. A number of exceptions and spe- cial tariff regimes remain; for example, books are subject to a tariff of 0.5 percent; some products traded within the CACM, such as coffee, sugar, oil, wheat, and alcohol, are subject to tariffs of 5 percent to 20 percent; some agricultural products (yellow maize, rice, and sorghum) are subject to a band of prices with variable tar iffs (between 5 percent and 45 percent);1 and imports of chicken are subject to tariffs of 20 percent up to a monthly quota of 300 tons and of 45 percent for imports exceeding this quota. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and require neither registration nor a license. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange proceeds are not required to be surrendered to the Bank of Guatemala, but must be sold to any authorized participant in the interbank Changes to the max imum and m in imum prices for the band and the corresponding ta r i ff table are determined at the begin- ning of each ag r icu l tu ral season. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 GUATEMALA market, other than the Bank of Guatemala. Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. A few other items, including gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license) and silver, may not be exported in any form. Exporters must obtain an export license issued by the FEID before the Guatemalan customs can autho- rize shipment of the merchandise. The granting of export licenses is contingent upon agreement to sell export proceeds to any authorized participant in the interbank market, other than the Bank of Guatemala within 90 days of the date of issuance (this period may be extended to 180 days). In the case of exports to Central America, there are arrangements among the central banks to settle pay- ments in their own national currencies or in U.S. dollars, or through barter. If the economic agents decide to settle their payments in U.S. dollars, the export revenues must be sold to any authorized participant in the interbank market, other than the Bank of Guatemala. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Invisible transactions relating to travel outside the country, school fees, study expenses, international credit card payments, and certain others are permit- ted without restriction. Proceeds from invisibles must be sold to any authorized participant in the interbank market, other than the Bank of Guatemala. Capital All capital transactions may take place without restriction. Nonresident (and resident) investors are exempted from a 20 percent tax on interest paid on foreign borrowing if the funds are channeled through the domestic banking system. Foreign direct investment in the petroleum sector is regu- lated by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala may buy and sell gold coins and bullion either directly or through autho- rized banks and is entitled to buy gold holdings sur- rendered by any resident. The Bank of Guatemala sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Mone- tary Board with the Government's approval. Exports of gold are prohibited except when the Bank of Gua- temala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments November 15. The Central American tariff rate on imports of capital goods was reduced to 1 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Franc. Its external value is determined by the supply and demand for foreign exchange between the authorized foreign exchange dealers and their clients or among the dealers themselves. The Central Bank of Guinea, a net recipient of nonproject aid funds and mining com- pany receipts, also participates in the interbank mar- ket because it remains a net supplier of foreign exchange. The exchange rate of the Guinean franc against the CFA franc results from the relationship between this currency and the French franc. The exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the rate of these currencies against U.S. dollar in the international market. On December 31, 1995, the official exchange rate for the Guinean franc vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar was GF 997.9843 per $1. For- eign exchange bureaus are in operation, and exchange rates in the market are determined by supply and demand conditions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Guinea's payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions were fully liberalized in July 1994 when the remaining exchange restrictions relat- ing to foreign travel and certain income transfers were eliminated. Guinea accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on November 17,1995. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, which has delegated to the commercial banks au thor i ty to (1) approve import forms (descriptifs dfimportation) and import application forms (demandes descriptives d'importation); (2) allo- cate foreign exchange to travelers holding foreign airline tickets; and (3) manage foreign currency accounts opened in the name of nonresidents and residents. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, may be effected by the commercial banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements. Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, China, Czech Republic, Egypt, Romania, and Slovak Republic; all agreements are inoperative. Set- tlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) as well as The Gam- bia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settle- ments with other countries are made in designated convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank. All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Guinean residents may maintain and operate deposit accounts in foreign currency at the domestic commercial banks. Exporters may hold all of their foreign exchange receipts in local bank accounts. Nonresidents may maintain accounts in Guinean francs and, subject to notification of the Central Bank by commercial banks, nonresident transferable accounts in foreign currencies. Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be opened by residents and nonresidents. They are to be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irre- spective of its origin. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commercial banks into for- eign currencies without prior authorization from the Central Bank. Interest rates on these accounts are negotiated between the account holder and the bank. Imports and Import Payments All products except armaments, ammunition, and narcotics may be freely imported into Guinea. All imports of less than $200,000 require authori- zation, which is granted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Central Bank. To obtain authorization, importers are required to fill out either an import form (for imports valued at $5,000 or less f.o.b.) or an import application request form (for imports valued at more than $5,000 f.o.b.), on which they must provide information concerning the products to be imported, including price, quan- tity, quality, and financing terms. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 GUINEA For imports financed with foreign exchange obtained from the interbank foreign exchange mar- ket, where rates are determined freely by demand and supply, authorization is given only after price, quality, and terms of financing (for import credits) are verified. Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted through commercial banks at the daily fixing sessions. Imports financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources (autorisation sans achat de devises) comprise goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and mainly covers imports by two "mixed-economy" companies the Friguia Company and the Guinea Bauxite Company, and foreign embassies. All imports are subject to a 13 percent turnover tax, custom duties (DFE) of 8 percent, and customs charges (DDE) of 7 percent, with the following exceptions: animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a 6 percent DFE and a 2 percent DDE; and imports for the food industry, cement, and agricultural machinery are subject to an 8 percent DFE and a 2 percent DDE. In addition, a surtax of 20 percent or 30 percent is imposed on all luxury goods, and a surtax of 30 per- cent to 60 percent is levied on nonalcoholic bever- ages, certain wines, and spirits. Imports of the three mixed enterprises in the mining sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6 percent levy. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. The Investment Law of 1985 (as amended in 1987 and 1995) guarantees that profits earned from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad and that certified dividends and royalties may be transferred in full. It also provides for certain tax incentives. The transfer abroad of salaries by expatriate workers is authorized up to a limit of 50 percent of base earnings and only for those con- tracts approved by the Ministry of Labor. The expor- tation of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an export description to help prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption and to identify capital outflows. Exports of the mining sector are exempt from this requirement. The exportation of wild animals (dead or alive), meats, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds require special authorization from desig- nated agencies. Planters may be granted special authorization to export a specific quantity of pineap- ples, bananas, or citrus fruits. Private traders may retain all of their export pro- ceeds to finance authorized imports. Gold exporters and vendors are required to surrender their export proceeds but may retain 25 percent to 50 percent of proceeds in foreign exchange deposits with com- mercial banks. This amount may be increased depending on the volume and type of products, especially with respect to gold and diamonds. The mixed-economy companies are allowed to retain all of their export proceeds abroad and may use the bal- ances to pay for their imports and operating require- ments and to service their external debt. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are not required to surrender exchange proceeds accruing from invisibles. The importation of foreign banknotes and traveler's checks is permit- ted freely, subject to declaration on entry; residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks within 15 days of their return. Residents are autho- rized to deposit their foreign exchange proceeds in foreign currency or convertible Guinean franc accounts. The Central Bank levies a fee of 0.5 percent of proceeds in foreign banknotes transferred through commercial banks. The importation of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Capital All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization from the Central Bank. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. The Investment Law of 1985 (as amended in 1987 and 1995 ) provides guarantees against the national- ization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign invest- ments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amorti- zation, and liquidation proceeds of such investments. Small and medium-size enterprises with assets of GF 15-200 million are granted import tax reductions and exempted from the minimum corporate tax for a period of 8-10 years. Exemptions for up to 15 years may be granted on long-teirm investments of particu- lar importance to the economy. The minimum foreign investment in Guinean enterprises is GF 10 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 205 Guinean nationals must have controlling interests in enterprises requiring foreign investment of GF10 million to GF 50 million. Gold The Central Bank purchases gold in Guinean francs at international prices; at the seller's request, the Central Bank may purchase 50 percent of output in foreign currency. Since the monetary reform of 1986, Guinea has issued fine silver commemorative coins of GF 10,000, which are legal tender. Transac- tions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restric- tion. Only the exportation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement November 17. Guinea accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Imports and Import Payments January 1. All imports were subject to a turnover tax of 13 percent to be applied to the value of the imports, inclusive of the import tariff. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea- Bissau Peso. The Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau sets official buying and selling exchange rates for its transactions and for those of government agencies. The official buying rate against the U.S. dollar, which serves as the intervention currency, is adjusted as necessary and maintained within a 2 percent average of the freely determined rates quoted by the two commercial banks, exchange bureaus, and the parallel market rate. The spread between the buying and selling rates of the official and commercial rates is subject to a maximum of 2 percent. The Central Bank regularly intervenes in the market through sales of foreign currencies to the commercial banks and legally established exchange bureaus. On December 31, 1995, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were PG 21,927 and PG 22,365, respectively, per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign currency in Guinea-Bissau. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the banking or commercial sector. Administration of Control The Central Bank exercises control over foreign exchange transactions involving the use of foreign exchange belonging to or administered by it. For- eign exchange transactions effected by commercial banks with resources derived from sources other than those of the Central Bank are, in general, not controlled by the Central Bank. Residents are per- mitted to sell foreign exchange in their possession without revealing its sources. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in foreign currencies, although certain exter- nal obligations have been settled with goods on a few occasions in the past. Guinea-Bissau participates in the West African Clearing House, which includes member countries of the Central Bank of West Afri- can States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) as well as The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents may open demand and time accounts in foreign currency with commercial banks and may use balances in these accounts without restriction, except that they must give prior notice for withdrawals above certain pre-established limits. Residents may also maintain these accounts (1) if they are authorized to engage in foreign currency transactions; or (2) if they receive income in foreign currency under contracts with nonresidents. Banks may pay interest up to 4 percent a year on demand accounts in foreign currency, whereas interest rates on time deposits may be negotiated freely. Imports and Import Payments All imports, regardless of whether they involve use of official or free market foreign exchange, require a prior import license (Boletim de Registo Previo de Importaqao) issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Tourism. Since official availability of for- eign exchange in the country is not considered when licenses are issued, import licenses are not a foreign exchange allocation instrument, and their posses- sion does not guarantee the importers access to the official exchange market. Except for a short negative list, licenses are issued automatically after verifica- tion of invoice prices for goods to be imported. Importers are free to arrange for payment through the banking system with their own foreign exchange or foreign exchange purchased on the free market. However, payments for imports with foreign exchange purchased from, or administered by, the Central Bank require its authorization, which is granted on the basis of the priority of the products involved and the availability of foreign exchange. Under the general regime, imports are subject to a customs service tax of 6 percent to 10 percent and, since June 1995, to a surcharge of 3 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles by the public sector at the official exchange rate are effected through the Cen- tral Bank. Payments for invisibles by the private sec- tor take place at the freely determined exchange rate and may be made without restriction. These pay- 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 207 ments may take place through commercial banks and the foreign exchange bureaus. Residents are allowed up to the equivalent of $5,000 for travel expenses but may be granted foreign exchange in excess of that amount with special authorization from the Central Bank. Foreign travelers may take out on departure any unspent foreign exchange that they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require a prior export license (Boletim de Registo Previo de Exportaqao). Only exporters regis- tered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted auto- matically in most cases. As in the case of imports, prior licenses are intended primarily for statistical purposes, although they are also used to check the prices of exports. In general, all exports are subject to a customs ser- vice tax of 5 percent. In addition, exports of cashew nuts are subject to a special tax, whose rate has been reduced over the years and is currently 13 percent. Agricultural exports are also subject to a rural prop- erty tax (Contribuiqao Predial Rustica), at the rate of 2 percent on processed products and 1 percent on unprocessed products. Special arrangements apply to exports to member countries of the Economic Community of West Afri- can States (ECOWAS), to which Guinea-Bissau belongs; for example, exports to these countries are exempt from the 6 percent customs service tax. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the national banking system; the intermediary bank purchases for its own account 70 percent of the pro- ceeds at a rate freely agreed with the exporter and purchases the remaining 30 percent on the account of the Central Bank at the official buying rate in the exchange table issued by the Central Bank effective on the date of settlement of the export transactions (Circulars Nos. 4/92,1/94, and 1/96). Proceeds from Invisibles There is no surrender requirement on foreign exchange received from abroad, which can be sold freely in the exchange market. Capital Foreign direct investments are governed by the Investment Code of 1985, which was amended most recently by Decree-Law No. 4/91, promulgated on September 30, 1991. Foreign and domestic invest- ments are subject to the same terms with respect to access to domestic credit. The Investment Code pro- vides incentives to foreign direct investment and protection against nationalization of investment and expropriation of assets, and recognizes the right of foreign investors to transfer foreign currency abroad in respect of profits (net of taxes), to sell or liquidate investments, to service loans obtained for project financing, and to make payments for imported sup- plies and technical assistance. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited unless expressly authorized by the appropriate govern- ment authorities. The Central Bank may engage in gold purchases and sales transactions with the public. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments June 30. A 3 percent tariff surcharge on the cus- toms value of imports was implemented (exemp- tions were granted to certain entities). Exports and Export Proceeds July 31. The portion of export proceeds that must be surrendered at the official exchange rate was reduced to 30 percent from 40 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of December 32,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, the external value of which is determined freely by market forces in the cambio market. The Bank of Guyana conducts certain transactions on the basis of the cambio rate by averaging quotations of the three largest dealers in the cambio market on the date the transaction takes place. In accordance with the bilateral agreements with the central banks of the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM), the Bank of Guyana quotes weekly rates for certain CARICOM currencies.1 On December 31, 1995, the average buying and selling rates in the cambio market were G$l37.57 and C$141.66, re- spectively, per US$1. The Bank of Guyana quotes rates for pounds sterling and Canadian dollars on the basis of the U.S. dollar-pound sterling and the U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar cross rates quoted by the Bank of England. The Bank of Guyana charges commissions at different rates on purchases and sales of officially quoted currencies. Transactions effected through the Bank of Guy- ana are limited, on the receipts side, to exports of sugar, and gold, and, on the payments side, mainly to imports of fuel, and official debt-service pay- ments. All other transactions are effected in the cambio market. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the official sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are pro- vided to certain deposits in blocked accounts. (See section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, below.) Guyana accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on December 27,1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minis- ter of Finance, who has entrusted this authority to the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade, Tour- ]For the operations of the CARICOM Bilateral Settlement Ar- rangements, the Bank of Guyana sets rates for the CARICOM cur- rencies every Friday on the basis of the average rates of the commercial banks and the five largest nonbank cambio dealers in the week ending the preceding Wednesday. The currencies to which this rate applies are the Barbados dollar, the Eastern Car- ibbean dollar, and the Belize dollar. ism, and Industry is responsible for issuing import and export licenses. With the establishment of the cambio market un- der the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licensing) Act (on March 13,1990), the Bank of Guyana, under the Exchange Control Act, suspended exchange control notices that related to (1) basic travel allowances; (2) correspondence courses; (3) subscriptions to clubs and societies, including entrance fees; (4) payments for periodicals, magazines, etc.; and (5) emigration. Also, until further notice, dealers are no longer au- thorized to accept deposits into the external pay- ments deposit scheme. Under the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licens- ing) Act, with the payment of a fee of G$250,000, in- dividuals, partnerships, and companies may be licensed for one year (renewable) to engage in for- eign currency dealings; these dealers are required to submit weekly returns of the transactions they con- duct to the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Guyana dollars.2 Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: external accounts, blocked accounts, and nonresident foreign ex- change accounts. External accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons who temporarily re- side in Guyana and who enjoy diplomatic privi- leges and immunities. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other external accounts; other credits require ap- proval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for trans- fers to other external accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he or she is in Guyana. Blocked accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (for example, certain capital pro- foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Guyana dollar. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 209 ceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including purchases of ap- proved securities. Since mid-1978, blocked accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for for- eign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate. The Bank of Guyana provides a partial exchange rate guarantee at the rates of G$3.25- G$3.75 per US$1 for deposits made before the de- valuation of January 1984; at G$5 per US$1 for de- posits made between January 1984 (after devaluation) and the end of January 1987; at G$10 per US$1 for deposits made between January 1987 and the end of March 1989; and no exchange rate guarantee for deposits made after March 1989. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be opened by commercial banks without the prior ap- proval of the central bank for citizens of Guyana residing permanently abroad; citizens of other coun- tries temporarily residing in Guyana; nonresidents attached to diplomatic missions or international or- ganizations; branches of companies incorporated outside of Guyana; and companies incorporated in Guyana but controlled by nonresidents abroad. These accounts may be credited with noncash instru- ments of convertible foreign currencies transferred through the banking system and transfers from exter- nal accounts. They may be debited freely for any pay- ments at the discretion of the account holder. Exporters are allowed to maintain and operate foreign exchange accounts. These accounts are ap- proved on merit but are generally granted to bona fide exporters who require imported inputs for pro- duction and /or have external loan obligations. These accounts may be credited with all or a portion of retained export proceeds and proceeds of foreign currency loans. They may be debited freely for any payments at the discretion of the account holder. Imports and Import Payments Imports of unprocessed meat, poultry, fruit, and processed fru it items, are restricted, subject to im- port-licensing controls, from all non-CARicoM sources. There are no licensing requirements for permissible imports, except for petroleum products and some 20 items affecting national security, health, public safety, and the environment. Intra-CARicoM trade is free of import duties, quo- tas, and import-licensing arrangements. The Com- mon External Tariff (GET) of the CARICOM is applied to imports from outside the CARICOM. Guyana, in compliance with an agreement among the CARICOM members, is implementing a phased reduction in the GET rate structure from a band of 30 percent to one ranging between 30 percent and 5 percent to one ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent by January 1,1998. The maximum tariff rate was lowered from 30 percent to 25 percent at the beginning of Septem- ber 1995. There are no import quotas. Import payments ef- fected by commercial banks on behalf of the Bank of Guyana require the Bank's prior approval. Before the introduction of the cambio market, all applica- tions for official foreign exchange were required to be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in blocked accounts with commercial banks. Commercial banks are re- quired to maintain a 100 percent reserve require- ment against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. In general, import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted without restriction; most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries may be freely effected through the cambio market. Foreign exchange for tourist travel and education may be purchased in the cambio market without restriction. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject to an exit tax of G$l,500 on departure. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign or local currency that may be taken out for foreign travel. Exports and Export Proceeds Sugar may be exported only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation, and bauxite and alumina only by Lin- mine, Bermine, and Aroaima Bauxite Company. Certain other exports are also channeled through official agencies. Rice may be exported by the Guyana Rice Development Board and the private sector. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are monitored by the Bank of Guy- ana and the Customs and Excise Department to en- sure that all proceeds of exports are repatriated and offered for sale to a licensed dealer. Exchange con- trol forms have to be completed for all exports whose value exceeds G$20,000. A foreign exchange retention scheme permits some exporters to retain a certain percentage of ex- port proceeds. The retention ratio is 70 percent for sugar and gold exported through the Guyana Gold Board and 100 percent for all other exports. Re- tained foreign exchange may be used freely in the cambio market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 Proceeds from Invisibles GUYANA Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements and may be retained or sold in the cambio market without restriction. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency notes; travelers entering the country with foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of G$l 0,000 must declare the amount. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Guyana Investment Policy of 1988. Foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries may borrow in Guyana only with the express ap- proval of the Bank of Guyana. There are no restric- tions on repatriation of capital. Residents and nonresidents have unlimited access to the cambio market for repatriation of funds. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange control approval. Gold Residents other than monetary authorities, au- thorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form (except gold coins held for numis- matic purposes and jewelry), at home or abroad, without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require permits issued by the Guyana Gold Board. Changes During 1995 Resident and Nonresident Accounts May 26. The Capital Issues (Control) Act of 1995 was passed in the National Assembly, substantially repealing the Capital Issues (Control) Act of 1973. Imports and Import Payments September 1. The second stage reduction in the new CARICOM CET to a maximum of 25 percent be- came effective. Exports and Export Proceeds April 18. The foreign exchange retention ratio for sugar and gold exports through the Guyana Gold Board was raised from 40 percent to 50 percent. December 31. The retention ratio for proceeds from sugar exports and from gold export through the Guyana Gold Board was raised from 50 percent to 70 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, and its external value is determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti; since April 1995, the Bank of the Republic of Haiti, the central bank, has been operating a dollar clearinghouse. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in exchange markets abroad. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates were 16.41 and 16.61, respectively, per $1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Haiti accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on December 22,1953. Administration of Control The Bank of the Republic of Haiti administers the foreign exchange system. Article 52 of the decree- law of September 28, 1991 provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authorities, equal to 20 percent on any commercial foreign exchange transaction not conducted through a bank established in Haiti. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Resident Accounts Commercial banks may open accounts in foreign exchange in favor of residents; in accordance with Article 2 of the Decree of January 18, 1990, these accounts may be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or with receipts from maritime agencies and non- governmental organizations. Imports and Import Payments The tariff regime includes four tar iffs rates (zero, 5 percent, 10 percent, and 15 percent). Four products have special rates: gasoline (25 percent), and cement, rice, and sugar (3 percent). Customs tariffs and the value-added tax applicable to most imports are cal- culated on the basis of the gourde equivalent of the c.i.f. value of the imported good, valued at the mar- ket exchange rate. The domestic turnover tax (TCA) is based, legally, on the c.i.f. value plus import duties. All imports, except for inputs used by certain export industries, are subject to a consular fee of 3 percent, which is payable in Haiti. Also, a 1 percent administrative fee is levied on all imports. Exports and Export Proceeds There is no surrender requirement. Exports of agricultural products require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Exporters are required to negotiate documentary drafts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export proceeds. The customs administration does not grant export approval unless those d ra f ts are cleared by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Resi- dents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 275 on tickets. All travelers pay an airport tax. The tax for Haitian residents is G 125 and for nonresidents, $25 or G 30. Diplomats and staff members of international organizations accredited in Haiti are exempt from both taxes. Proceeds from invisibles are not required to be surrendered. There are no limits on the importa- tion or exportation of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital transactions in gourdes are restricted; in practice, however, these restrictions are not imple- mented. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by the Decree of October 30, 1982, and requires prior government approval. Permission is normally not granted for nonresidents to invest in hand icraft industries. Private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep a minimum of 85 percent of their liabilities in the form of domestic assets for local cus- tomers. This requirement is not enforced. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 Gold HAITI Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to purchase gold domesti- cally and to export gold in the form of coins, mineral dust, or bars. Gold in any form, other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers, may be imported and exported only by the central bank; exports of gold require, in addition, prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, as well as an endorsement from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a small amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti began to operate a dollar clearinghouse. Administration of Control May 30. External payments arrears were eliminated. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The maximum import tariff was lowered to 15 percent from 57 percent (excluding tariff on gasoline set at 25 percent). The tariff regime was simplified to four tariff rates ranging from zero to 15 percent. The value of imports would be deter- mined at the market exchange rate. June 30. A 1 percent administrative surcharge was applied to all imports. Exports and Export Proceeds March 31. The surrender eliminated. requirement was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of April 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lem- pira. The interbank foreign exchange system was suspended temporarily on July 17, 1994, and a for- eign exchange auction system was introduced. Under this system, banks and exchange houses are required to sell all their daily foreign exchange pur- chases to the Central Bank of Honduras, which auc- tions at least 60 percent of its purchases. Buyers (banks, exchange houses, or private individuals) bid a price that cannot d iffer from a base price set by the authorities by more than 1 percent in either direc- tion. The maximum bid in an auction is $200,000. The base exchange rate is adjusted every Monday on the basis of the average of the rates realized during the previous week's auctions. Auction rates cannot deviate from the base rate by more than 0.5 percent in either direction. Auctions are held once each working day. Effective April 19, 1996, natural and juridical persons were allowed to participate in the auction through a foreign exchange dealer, directly or indirectly. The base rate would be modified after every five auctions according to changes in the dif- ferential between domestic and international infla- tion and in the exchange rates of the currencies of trading partners of Honduras with respect to the U.S. dollar. At the end of 1995, the base price vis-a- vis the U.S. dollar was L 9.18 per $1 and the refer- ence rate was L 9.28 per $1. Banks and exchange houses sell foreign exchange to the public at the auc- tion price plus a commission of less than 1.5 percent. Debt conversions are conducted at the rate of L 2 per $1. Purchases and sales of the currencies of other Central American countries are effected on the basis of quotations in lempiras, taking into account the value of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the interbank markets of the countries concerned. There are no takes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Honduras accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 1, 1950. Administration of Control Central Bank (DERFE), which maintains an import registry for statistical purposes only. Foreign invest- ment regulations are administered by the Secretary of Economy and Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the method of payment to or from nonresidents. Trade transac- tions with the rest of Central America may be carried out in local currencies, barter and compensation mechanisms, or U.S. dollar proceeds from exports to the rest of the Central American countries. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign currency accounts may be maintained with domestic banks without restriction. Banks are required to hold these deposits in (1) foreign cur- rency notes in their vaults, (2) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad, (3) investments in high-liquidity foreign instruments, or (4) advance export- or import-financing instruments. Imports and Import Payments Registration is required for all imports valued at more than $5,000. Imports of arms and similar items require a license issued by the Ministry of Defense. The financing of imports is channeled either through the banking system or through exchange houses, with foreign exchange purchased in the free market or with credits obtained abroad (except for financing obtained through export advances or gov- ernment credit agreements with external institutions). Imports are subject to customs duties, ranging from zero to 20 percent.1 The duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes, industrial processing zones, and firms registered under the regime of temporary imports (a drawback regime) are exempt from cus- toms duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are required to be registered only for sta- tistical purposes. All foreign exchange proceeds, except those from trade with other Central American The Central Bank administers exchange control regulations. Exporters are required to present a dec- laration to the External Financing Department of the ]Over 1,600 products from other Central American countries are exempt from customs duties, except for an import surcharge of 1.5 percent. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 HONDURAS countries, must be surrendered to authorized banks or exchange houses. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 30 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for their authorized foreign exchange obligations. Pro- ceeds from exports of coffee and bananas must be surrendered within 25 days; the surrender period for other exports ranges from 30 days to 120 days. The commercial banks and exchange houses are required to sell to the Central Bank all their foreign exchange purchases. Exports of coffee are super- vised by the Honduran Coffee Institute. Bananas are subject to an export tax at the rate of $0.50 for a 40-pound box, but production from newly planted areas is exempt from the tax, and pro- duction from rehabilitated areas is subject to a tax at the rate of $0.25 a box. Sugar is subject to an export tax if its export price exceeds a specified level. Coffee exports of which the f.o.b. value is more than $80 a quintal (100 kilograms) are subject to a 10 percent income tax on the obtained above export price and price of $80 a quintal. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All buyers of foreign exchange are required to fill out a form stating the purpose for which the funds will be used. There are no limits on the amount pur- chased. There are no restrictions on the importation of foreign banknotes by travelers. Proceeds from invisibles are not required to be repatriated. Capital There are no restrictions on activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange and its transfer abroad for investment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. For- eign mutual funds and similar financial institutions must have permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of Congress is required for all public sector foreign bor- rowing. Private sector external debt contracts must be registered with the Central Bank for statistical purposes only. Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic firms and foreign direct investments are permitted in all sectors without restriction, with the exception of defense-related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. Invest- ments in hazardous industries require prior approval. All foreign investments must be registered with the Secretary of Economy and Trade, and repa- triation of registered capital and transfers of divi- dends and profits earned on such capital are not restricted. Investment insurance may be arranged in Honduras or abroad without restriction. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary author- ities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Com- mercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement October 24. The method of adjusting the exchange rate was changed: the frequency of adjustments was increased to once a week (previously the base rate was adjusted only after the average auction rate stayed at the upper limit of a band of 1 percent, in each direction, of the existing basic rate for 15 con- secutive days), and the band within which the auc- tion rate can move was narrowed to 1 percent, that is, 0.5 percent in each direction. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The 10 percent customs surcharge was eliminated, and the 5 percent customs service sur- charge was lowered to 3 percent. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement April 19. Natural and juridical persons were allowed to participate in the auction through a for- eign exchange dealer, directly or indirectly. The base rate would be modified after every five auctions according to changes in the differential between domestic and international inflation and in the exchange rates of the currencies of trading partners of Honduras with respect to the U.S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The customs service surcharge was low- ered to 1.5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. Since October 17, 1983, the Hong Kong dollar has been linked to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of HK$7.80 per US$1. Under this linked exchange rate arrangement, the three note-issuing banks must deliver to the Exchange Fund an amount in U.S. dollars that is equivalent to the local currency issued at the linked exchange rate as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues. The Exchange Fund, in turn, issues to each note-issuing bank non- interest-bearing certificates of indebtedness denom- inated in Hong Kong dollars. Conversely, the note- issuing banks may redeem U.S. dollars from the Exchange Fund by delivering certificates of indebt- edness and withdrawing local banknotes from cir- culation at the same linked exchange rate. The amount of indebtedness of the Exchange Fund rep- resented by the certificates of indebtedness will be reduced accordingly. Other banks may acquire local currency notes from the note-issuing banks against Hong Kong dollar deposits for Hong Kong dollar value. The exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar is set in the exchange market at freely negotiated rates for all transactions except those that are conducted for the note-issuing purposes between the Exchange Fund and the note-issuing banks. On December 30,1995, the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar was HK$7.732 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The for- ward exchange markets are operated on private sec- tor initiatives, and the Government has no official role. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Direc- tor-General of Trade. ]Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 215 No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments There are no restrictions on imports, except for those maintained for reasons of health, safety, envi- ronmental protection, or security. All imports are free of duties, although an excise tax for revenue and health purposes is levied on imported and domestically produced cigarettes and other tobacco products, liquors, methyl alcohol, and some hydro- carbon oils. With a few exceptions, a trade declara- tion must be lodged with the Customs and Excise Department within 14 days of importation or exportation in respect of each consignment of goods imported into or exported from Hong Kong. Pay- ments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses and certificates of origin are required for certain textile products to enable Hong Kong to fulfill its international obligations under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement on Textiles and Clothing. Other export restrictions are maintained for reasons of health, environmental protection, safety, or security. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency, and need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Income from foreign sources, capital gains, distribution from trusts, and dividends are not taxed in Hong Kong; interest income from domestic sources received by licensed banks and corporations carrying on business in Hong Kong is subject to a profit tax. Interest earned on bank deposits by individuals is exempt from the salary tax. Resident and nonresident travelers may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 HONG KONG freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, to conduct banking, insurance, securi- ties, and futures dealings. Otherwise, all overseas companies are required only to register with the Companies Registry within one month of establish- ing a place of business in Hong Kong. Gold Free and unrestricted markets for gold and gold futures are open to residents and nonresidents. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form and amount in Hong Kong or abroad. Com- memorative gold coins of HK$1,000 are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of January 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Forint. Since March 13,1995, the exchange rate of the forint is adjusted in accordance with a preannounced rate of crawl; the rate of devaluation, which takes place against a currency basket comprising the European currency unit (ECU) (70 percent) and the U.S. dollar (30 percent), was 1.9 percent a month between March 13 and June 30, 1995, and was reduced to 1.3 percent during the second half of 1995. Prior to March 13, 1995, the peg was adjusted periodically, mainly to accommodate differences between the domestic and foreign inflation rates. The official exchange rate is fixed at about noon every day against the basket and is calculated for 20 convertible currencies and the ECU,1 within mar- gins of ± 2.25 percent, but licensed banks are free to determine their own margins within this band. The National Bank of Hungary intervenes at the market rate to keep it within the margin of the peg. The offi- cial spot buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1995, were Ft 139.1 and Ft 139.8, respectively, per $1. Banks are free to set the exchange rates for currency notes and traveler's checks. As a transitional measure, transferable and clear- ing rubles continue to be used (1) for the settlement of certain outstanding financial claims related to contracts concluded before the end of 1990, and (2) for other settlements that are to be phased out. For outstanding claims, official exchange rates are quoted for the transferable and clearing ruble. At the end of December 1995, the middle rate for the forint against one transferable or clearing ruble was Ft 27.50. The National Bank of Hungary does not quote the exchange rate of the forint for currencies of countries belonging to the former Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) and many other countries; for cash transactions in those cur- rencies, the exchange rates are freely determined by the commercial banks and exchange offices. 1 A u s t r a l i an do l la rs, A u s t r i an schillings, Belgian f rancs, Cana- d ian do l lars, Dan ish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, Finnish m a rkk a a, French f rancs, Ir ish pounds, I t a l i an lire, Japanese yen, K uw a i ti d ina rs, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Norweg ian kroner, Por tuguese es- cudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. do l la rs. In add i t ion to the above, exchange ra tes are quo ted for bankno tes and trave ler's checks in Greek d rachmas. Agreements between Hungary and the Slovak Republic permit their national currencies to be con- verted into each other's currency through their respective banking systems for the purpose of tour- ist travel and the settlement of certain noncommer- cial transactions between the two countries at exchange rates freely determined by the commercial banks and exchange offices; they also stipulate limits on the importation of banknotes by travelers. Inter- bank settlements between the two countries in Hun- garian forint and Slovak koruny have been small and are effected through only one Hungarian com- mercial bank and one Slovak commercial bank. The Czech Republic abandoned similar agreements with Hungary in the first half of 1993. As far as cash trans- actions are concerned, a free exchange market exists for the Slovak koruna, with trading handled by about 30 organizations; for the Czech koruna, trad- ing is handled by four or five organizations; and for the currencies of Poland, the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, most trading is handled by one organization. The commercial banks may engage in forward transactions with terms ranging from seven days to one year, and forward exchange rates may be negoti- ated freely between the banks and their customers. The commercial banks may also enter into foreign currency swaps with the National Bank. Hungary accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Janu- ary 1,1996. Administration of Control Authority for enforcement of foreign exchange regulations is vested in the National Bank. All economic organizations and private persons in Hungary are entitled to carry out foreign trade activ- ity in convertible currencies and Hungarian forint provided that foreign trade was part of their busi- ness activities when incorporated. Hungary continues to maintain payments restric- tions against Iraq, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 661. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hun- gary has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. If there are no specific 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 HUNGARY agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settlement is normally made in forint or in a convertible currency officially quoted in Hungary. At the end of 1995, inoperative bilateral agreements were maintained with Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, Russia, and Vietnam for the settle- ment of outstanding transferable or clearing ruble balances in connection with shipments of goods. Hungary's only remaining operative bilateral pay- ments agreements are with Brazil and Ecuador. Under these agreements, outstanding balances are settled every 90 days. With respect to outstanding balances under inop- erative bilateral payments agreements, settlements have been reached in most cases. Hungary was a net debtor only to the former German Democratic Republic and settled the outstanding balance in con- vertible currency at the end of 1995. Russia, the larg- est net debtor to Hungary, has agreed to settle the amount owed by the end of 1997 through the deliv- ery of goods and services or debt-equity swaps. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and juridical persons, as well as resident natural persons, may freely maintain convertible currency accounts at authorized com- mercial banks. Resident juridical persons may open convertible currency accounts only with funds origi- nating from specific sources, such as export receipts; foreign borrowing; capital paid in convertible cur- rency by the foreign owners of joint-venture compa- nies; donations paid in convertible currency for foundations, churches, and social organizations; and budgetary institutions. The accounts carry interest that is payable in the currency of deposit and have a guarantee of repayment up to a maximum of the equivalent of Ft 1 million with no exchange rate guarantee in case of conversion. The interest rates on deposits are determined by the commercial banks. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Nonresidents may open convertible joint accounts that may be credited with lawfully acquired forints; proceeds from the conversion of convertible cur- rency or forints acquired illegally can be placed in a nonconvertible forint account, which does not bear interest. Imports and Exports Beginning in December 1990, a general authoriza- tion was granted to all entities to import and export goods without a specific license except for those items on a negative list. A global quota is reported to the World Trade Organization (WTO) on imports of certain consumer goods that are subject to license by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and settled in convertible currencies. A license is required for imports that are destined for the settlement of out- standing balances in transferable or clearing rubles. Importers have the right to purchase foreign exchange through the banking system for all bona fide imports. When applying for foreign exchange, importers have to complete a declaration stating the use of the foreign exchange. The National Bank con- ducts a random check of banks and enterprises for compliance with the regulations. Commercial banks and enterprises may enter into deferred payment arrangements on behalf of their clients without restriction; arrangements exceeding three months must be reported to the National Bank by the client. These arrangements need not be secured by bank obligations. Export proceeds must be received in officially quoted convertible currencies, in Hungarian forint, or in a nonconvertible currency. In all cases, such proceeds must be repatriated to Hungary within eight days of receipt of the foreign exchange. Certain exemptions are granted, subject to specific approval by the National Bank. Since April 1, 1995, foreign exchange receipts may be deposited in a foreign exchange account at a domestic bank but can only be used for all liberalized transactions. Enterprises engaged in foreign trade are required to provide the National Bank with annual reports showing claims outstanding in connection with their export activi- ties. Export proceeds received in forint by nonresi- dents may be deposited in convertible forint accounts with licensed banks, and nonresidents are allowed to convert balances in such accounts into foreign exchange for transfer abroad. Goods for personal use brought in by returning Hungarian travelers are subject to a general import duty of 15 percent, based on the actual invoice price with a duty-free allowance of Ft 8,000. Residents, if they are employees of a domestic agency and if they are stationed abroad for more than one year, may import, free of customs duty, goods for personal use up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earn- ings. A temporary 8 percent import surcharge was introduced on March 20,1995. Certain exports are prohibited for health, security, and other noneconomic reasons. An export subsidy may be provided for exports of agricultural products and processed foods settled in convertible currencies or forint. The value-added tax paid on goods that are exported is refunded. The refund and the subsidy are calculated on the basis of the customs invoice value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 219 New trade agreements with former CMEA coun- tries, based on free market principles and providing for settlements in convertible currencies at world market prices with no official overdraft, credit, or clearing facilities, are in effect since December 1992, with Albania, Armenia, Belarus, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, the Slovak Republic, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam. Such agreements are in effect with China, Croatia, Kazakstan, and Latvia since end-1993. The Trade Protocol of the Association Agreement between Hungary and the European Union entered into force on March 1,1992, with the help of the Interim Agreement. The Associ- ation Agreement entered into force in its entirety at the beginning of 1994. The Visegrad agreements of the Central European Free Trade Area (CEFTA) with Poland, the Czech Republic, and the Slovak Repub- lic entered into effect in March 1993, and the trade agreement with five European Free Trade Associa- tion (EFTA) countries (Austria, Liechtenstein, Nor- way, Sweden, and Switzerland) entered into effect in October 1993. Hungary concluded a free trade agree- ment with Slovenia with effect from January 1,1996. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange law of November 7, 1995, abolished restrictions on all payments and transfers for current international transactions. Capital Under the National Bank Law, approved by the Parliament on December 1, 1991, financial institu- tions must report all foreign borrowing to the National Bank. Foreign borrowing of other legal entities with a maturity of less than one year is sub- ject to the approval of the National Bank. The grant- ing of credits to foreigners by Hungarian financial institutions is, in most cases, limited to credits with maturities of up to one year. Commercial credits with maturities of over one year made in connection with foreign trade activities between nonfinancial legal entities need authorization. Foreign investment in the form of joint ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established with- out approval, but in the case of banks, foreign partici- pation exceeding 10 percent of equity requires government approval. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases, the joint venture is considered as a Hungarian legal entity, but those in duty-free zones are exempted from several regulations. Machines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may qualify as foreign invest- ment. Guarantee is given by law for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, if the joint ven- ture is liquidated, of the invested capital and capital gains. In addition, a guarantee may be obtained from Hungarian banking institutions to cover the fulfill- ment of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organiza- tions, either by establishing subsidiaries or affiliates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enterprise, is free if the equity share is more than 10 percent. Portfolio investment inflows must be registered, and permission, in most cases granted by the National Bank, is not automatic. In September 1994, foreigners were permitted to buy one-year discount Treasury bills and, under the foreign exchange law, they were allowed to buy most Hungarian securities with maturities longer than one year without obtain- ing permission from the National Bank, effective January 1,1996. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 100,000, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. Gifts (movable property that is in Hungary, except securities and other such instru- ments) from nonresidents to residents and vice versa, in excess of Ft 100,000 a person can be freely given and accepted. Nonresidents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate or other immovable property in Hungary, except through inheritance, and authorization is granted by the county munici- palities. Joint ventures can own the real estate neces- sary for their activities without authorization. Outward capital transfers by resident natural per- sons are generally free, except for security transac- tions, which are subject to the same restrictions as enterprises. Emigrants to OECD countries can freely take with them all their assets; emigrants to other countries can take assets up to Ft 1 million. Gold All trade in monetary gold is subject to the author- ity of the National Bank. All ingots and gold coins must be repatriated. Except for transactions with enterprises specifically authorized to transact in gold, all transactions in monetary gold are subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 13. The exchange rate was devalued by 8.3 percent and from that date, the exchange rate peg has been adjusted in accordance with a prean- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 HUNGARY nounced rate of crawl; prior to that date, the exchange rate was adjusted at irregular intervals. November 7. A new foreign exchange law was passed by Parliament to take effect as of January 1, 1996. Imports and Exports January 1. Food items and underwear were elimi- nated from the global import quota list. March 20. A temporary 8 percent import surcharge was introduced. (Authorities intend to remove the import surcharge in mid-1997.) April 1. Exporters were granted an exception to the general rule that requires conversion into forint of export proceeds. Under this rule, exporters are allowed to deposit export receipts in domestic banks. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Hungary accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Capital January 1. Under the new foreign exchange law, some capital account restrictions were eliminated; foreigners were allowed to buy most Hungarian securities with maturities longer than one year with- out obtaining permission from the National Bank, and outward equity investment was permitted, pro- vided that an equity share of over 10 percent is acquired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona. The external value of the krona is pegged to a bas- ket of 16 currencies.1 The official exchange rate is determined in the interbank market in a daily fixing meeting. The participants in the market are the Cen- tral Bank of Iceland and four commercial banks, including the Savings Bank Association. The Cen- tral Bank intervenes in the exchange market to keep the exchange rate within a margin of ±6 percent around the central rate. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates were ISK 65.14 and ISK 65.22, respectively, per US$1, the principal trad- ing currency in Iceland. Banks and other foreign exchange dealers are free to set their own commer- cial exchange rates and to decide the spread between buying and selling rates. There is no orga- nized forward market and no forward exchange rate is quoted for the Icelandic krona by either the Central Bank or the private sector. However, forward cover may be freely obtained in other currencies. Iceland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on September 19,1983. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce has ulti- mate responsibility for matters concerning imports and, in consultation with the Central Bank, on for- eign exchange regulations. Export controls are administered by the Ministry of Foreign Affa irs and Foreign Trade. All foreign exchange transactions, including capital transactions, are free of restric- tions unless explicitly prohibited by provisions of the Exchange Act No. 87/1992 or the Foreign Exchange Regulation that came into effect on January 1,1995. Currently, the exchange control functions of the Central Bank include authorizing foreign exchange dealers to operate on a commercial basis, carrying out reporting requirements for statistical purposes, and implementing the regulation on foreign direct 1 These currencies are the Belgian franc, Canad ian dollar, Dan- ish krone, deutsche mark, Finnish markka, French franc, I ta l ian lira, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilder, Norwegian krone, Por- tuguese escudo, the pound sterling, Spanish peseta, Swedish krona, Swiss franc, and U.S. dollar. investments. The administrative control of foreign trade in goods, such as tax duties and documenta- tion, is carried out by the customs authorities. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Iceland notified the Fund on July 31, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro). On December 1,1995, Iceland notified the Fund that exchange restrictions against Libya had been imposed in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 (1993). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on nonresident accounts with respect to the amounts, currencies, or instru- ments involved. All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification num- ber, and the banks must report to the Central Bank the monthly position of nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods are free of restriction, except by provision in other legislation or international agree- ments. Such a restriction would not apply to foreign embassies except for health reasons. Most goods can be imported freely without a license. The main exemptions are live animals and certain agricultural products. Certain imports, including fertilizers, tobacco, and alcoholic bever- ages, can only be imported under state trading arrangements. Some fresh vegetables, including potatoes, and flowers are subject to periodic import control. For imports that require a license, a fee of 1 percent is assessed on the krona value of the import license when it is issued. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle and its engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public service vehicles are exempt. Certain goods, whether imported or domestic, are subject to a special excise 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 ICELAND tax of 24 percent or 30 percent ad valorem. On Sep- tember 1, 1995, restrictions on alcoholic beverages were lifted; their retail sales, however, remain under a state trading arrangement. A specific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax depending on the alcohol content and volume. No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fish and agricultural products require licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade. No exchange controls are imposed on receipts from exports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange controls are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. Capital Both inward and outward capital transfers are generally free of restrictions if not prohibited by provisions of exchange regulations or other special legislation. Foreign governments, local authorities, and other public authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permit- ted by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regu- lated, in accordance with special legislation No. 34/ 1991, as follows: (1) nonresidents are free to make investments in Iceland, subject to the conditions laid down in general legislation governing foreign investment or sector-specific legislation; (2) only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically regis- tered companies wholly owned by resident Icelan- dic citizens may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate primary fish processing facilities; (3) only Icelandic state and local authorities, resi- dent Icelandic citizens, and domestically registered Icelandic companies wholly owned by resident Ice- landic citizens may acquire the right to harness waterfalls and geothermal energy; the restrictions apply to power production and distribution compa- nies; (4) investment by nonresidents in domestic airlines is restricted to 49 percent; (5) investment by nonresidents in domestic incorporated commercial banks is restricted to 25 percent, but foreign com- mercial banks are allowed to open branches in Iceland; and (6) total investment by single nonresi- dents, or by financially linked nonresidents, in excess of ISK 250 million per year is subject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce. This financial limit is subject to change in the price index. In some sectors of the economy, sectoral legislation stipulates that either some or all of the founders or managing directors of a company must be residents. The legislation on joint-stock companies stipulates that the majority of founders must be residents before the company is established. The managing director and a majority of the members of the board of directors of a company must be residents. Citizens of the European Economic Area are exempted from this restriction, and the Minister of Commerce may grant exceptions to this requirement. The ownership and uses of real estate in Iceland are governed by the provision of Act No. 19/1966 with amendments in 1991 and 1993. The conditions to own real estate in Iceland are (1) individuals must be Icelandic citizens; (2) in the case of unlim- ited companies, all owners must be Icelandic citi- zens; and (3) joint-stock companies must be registered in Iceland, at least 80 percent must be owned by Icelandic citizens, and all of the members of the board of directors must be Icelandic citizens. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meetings. The same condi- tions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than one year's notice. How- ever, a company that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit natural resources. Citizens of the European Economic Area and other foreign citizens that have been domiciled in Iceland for at least five years are exempted from these restrictions. The Minister of Justice may grant others exemption from these requirements. Short-term foreign borrowing and lending by res- idents to nonresidents are permitted without limits. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland and abroad. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement September 6. The official basket of currencies against which the exchange rate of the krona is determined was changed from one composed by the ECU, the U.S. dollar, and the Japanese yen to one composed of 16 currencies. Additionally, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 223 authorities widened the band for the fluctuation of the currency around the central exchange rate from ±2.25 percent to ±6.0 percent. imposed in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 (1993). Administration of Control Imports and Import Payments January 1. The surrender requirement for foreign exchange receipts by residents was abolished. All financial limits on short-term capital movements were removed. The requirement that securities must be purchased through intermediary autho- rized dealers was abolished, and restrictions on for- ward contracts and other financial derivatives were abolished. December 1. Iceland notified the Fund that exchange restrictions against Libya had been July 1. A license fee of 1 percent for imports that require a license was abolished. September 1. Imports of alcoholic beverages became free of restrictions but their retail sale remains under a state trading arrangement. Capital January 1. Limits on short-term financial transac- tions were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee, the exchange value of which is determined by demand and supply in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of India purchases spot U.S. dollars from authorized persons at the central office at a rate determined on the basis of the market exchange rate. It does not normally purchase spot deutsche mark, Japanese yen, or pounds sterling. The Reserve Bank has on occasion purchased or sold forward U.S. dol- lars. The Reserve Bank may enter into swap transac- tions, under which it buys spot U.S. dollars and sells forward for up to six months. The Reserve Bank is obligated to sell spot U.S. dollars on the basis of the market exchange rate only for debt service payment purposes on behalf of the Government of India. Since July 6,1995, debt service payments of the Gov- ernment are being increasingly effected through the exchange market. On December 29,1995, the indica- tive market rate for the U.S. dollar (average of the buying and selling rates) as announced by the For- eign Exchange Dealers Association of India (FEDAI) was Re 25.75 per $1; on December 30, 1995, the Reserve Bank's reference rate for the U.S. dollar was Re 35.18 per SI.1 Exchange rates against other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the U.S. dollar with the Indian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase and sell spot and to sell forward currencies of the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU)2 at rates determined on the basis of the Reserve Bank's reference rate for the rupee in terms of the U.S. dollar, which is calculated with reference to the rates prevailing in the interbank market around noon and the SDR-U.S. dollar rate published by the International Monetary Fund (IMF).3 Authorized dealers may maintain balances and positions in "permitted currencies," that is, foreign currencies that are freely convertible (currencies that the authorities of the countries concerned permit to !The reference rate is the ra te announced by the Reserve Bank of India at 12 noon, based on quotations from five major banks. Bangladesh, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka; Nepal is a member of the ACU, but the Reserve Bank does not deal in Nepalese rupees. 3In accordance with the amendments in the ACU Agreement and the Procedure Rules of September 1,1995, trade among ACU countries (except between India and Nepal) has been settled in U.S. dollars or any other convertible currency since Janua ry 1, 1996. be converted into major currencies and for which a fairly active market exists for dealings against other major currencies). Authorized dealers are also per- mitted to maintain balances and positions in Euro- pean currency units (ECUs) abroad. Authorized dealers are permitted to deal spot or forward in any permitted currency; however, there are restrictions on authorized dealers' net foreign exchange expo- sure and on their borrowing and lending activities abroad. Forward purchases or sales of foreign cur- rencies against rupees with banks abroad are prohibited. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India, Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation in connection with deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of a contract; exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other convertible currencies, cover is provided at the discretion of the ECGC. India accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 20,1994. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to authorized dealers. Import and export licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: member countries of the ACU (except Nepal) and the external group (all other countries). Payments to countries other than those of the ACU may be made in Indian rupees to the accounts of a resident of any of these countries or in any permitted currency. Receipts from countries other than member countries of the ACU may be obtained in Indian rupees from accounts maintained with an authorized dealer or in banks situated in any of the countries in the external group or in any permitted currency. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 225 All remittances by nationals of China to any coun- try outside of India and all remittances to China by any person residing in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were prohibited as of Novem- ber 3, 1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and China, remittances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in conformity with exchange control regulations. Restrictions on non- trade-related transactions with China have been abolished. Authorized dealers are permitted to open rupee accounts in the names of their branches or cor- respondents in Pakistan without prior notification to the Reserve Bank but must obtain approval before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistan banks operating outside Pakistan. Autho- rized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers, as in the case of imports from other countries; they may also effect certain types of personal remittances in accordance with regulations applicable to such remittances; remit- tances for other purposes require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. Receipts from the external group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the accounts of banks sit- uated in any country in the group; the accounts must be maintained with an authorized dealer or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may apply to exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the governments of cer- tain foreign countries. All payments on account of eligible current international transactions between India and other members of the ACU except Nepal are required to be settled through the ACU arrange- ment, as are transactions effected on a deferred basis with ACU countries. However, settlement of pay- ments for imports of sugar, fertilizer, and pulses from any of the ACU countries may be made outside the ACU mechanism in any permitted currency. Pay- ments relating to current transactions financed with loans from international institutions are also effected outside the ACU mechanism. Indian exporters are also permitted to accept payment in free foreign exchange for their exports to ACU countries, pro- vided such payment is voluntarily offered by the importer in the ACU country. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The rupee accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals residing in Bhu tan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts. However, residents of Nepal may obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank; accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. Accounts of banks in the external group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for pay- ments of exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts. The balances in the accounts of banks may be converted into any per- mitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of individuals or firms may be credited with (1) the proceeds of remittances received in any permitted currency from abroad through normal banking channels, balances sold by the account holder in any permitted cur- rency during his or her visit to India, or balances transferred from rupee accounts of nonresident banks; and (2) legitimate dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. For credits exceeding Re 10,000, authorized dealers are required to ascer- tain the bona fide nature of the transaction before crediting the account. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary nonresident rupee accounts for all local disbursements, including investments in India that are covered by the general or special permission of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident external rupee accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside outside of India, or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to autho- rized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, some state coop- erative banks, certain urban cooperative banks, and certain commercial banks not holding such licenses have also been permitted by the Reserve Bank to open and maintain nonresident rupee accounts, sub- ject to certain conditions. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency trav- eler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country. They may also be credited with foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and d ra f ts in the name of the account holder, with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 INDIA foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder while in India, and with income on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other NRER accounts or foreign currency nonresi- dent (FCNR) accounts is also allowed for bona fide personal purposes. The accounts may be debited for disbursement in India and for transfers abroad. Deb- iting is also permitted for any other transaction if covered under general or special permission granted by the Reserve Bank. Balances may also be used to purchase foreign currency, rupee traveler's checks, or traveler's letters of credit for the use of the account holder; his or her family and dependents; and, in the case of corporate entities, for the use of directors and employees. Investments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms and the like or in immovable property may be made with the specific or general approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in nonresident external accounts in any bank in India is exempt from the personal income tax, although juridical persons are not entitled to this exemption. Interest earnings are transferable. The balances held in such accounts by natural and juridical persons are exempt from the wealth tax; gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in these accounts are exempt from the gift tax. Foreign currency nonresident accounts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nationality or origin and by overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, including interest. Bal- ances may be repatriated at any time without notifi- cation to the Reserve Bank. Balances may also be used for the same purposes as those allowed for debits to NRER accounts. Effective May 15, 1993, a new FCNR (Banks) Scheme was introduced, and the previous FCNR A Scheme was abolished, effective August 15,1994; however, the exchange rate guaran- tees issued by the Reserve Bank on existing deposits under the scheme remain in effect until the deposits mature. The FCNR B Scheme operates in the same manner as the previously existing accounts, except that the issuing bank (not the Reserve Bank) pro- vides the exchange rate guarantee on deposit balances. Nonresident (nonrepairiable) rupee deposit accounts may be opened by nonresident Indian nationals, overseas corporate bodies predominantly owned by nonresident Indian nationals, and foreign citizens of non-Indian origin (except Pakistani and Bangladeshi nationals). These accounts may be opened with funds in freely convertible foreign exchange remit- ted from abroad or funds transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. The funds in these accounts may not be repatriated abroad at any time. Since October 1994, accruing interest has been per- mitted to be transferred abroad. Foreign currency ordinary (nonrepatriable) deposit accounts may be maintained by nonresidents.4 These accounts may be denominated in U.S. dollars and credited with funds received from abroad in freely convertible foreign exchange or transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. On maturity of deposits, the rupee value of the principal and accrued interest may be credited to the ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of the depositor. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Fiji and Iraq are prohibited. Capital goods, raw materials, components, spare parts, accessories, instruments, and other goods are freely importable without restriction by anyone, whether the actual user or not, unless such imports are regulated by the negative list of imports. The negative list of imports consists of prohibited items, restricted items, and canalized items. The pro- hibited items are tallow, fat and /or oils that are ren- dered, unrendered, or otherwise of animal origin; animal rennet; wild animals (including their parts and products); and ivory. All consumer goods (including consumer dura- bles), except those specifically permitted, are restricted, and their importation is permitted only with a license. Also the importation of certain spec- ified precious, semiprecious, and other stones; safety, security, and related items; seeds, plants, and animals; insecticides and pesticides; drugs and Pharmaceuticals; chemicals and allied items relat- ing to the small-scale sector; and certain other items is restricted. The importation of restricted items is allowed selectively with a license or in accordance with general schemes laid down through public notices for import based on the merit of the appli- cation. A large number of consumer goods, includ- ing all edible oils (excluding coconut oil, palm kernel oil, RED palm oil, and RBO palm stearin); sugar; cameras; roasted or decaffe ina ted coffee; paper and paper products of various types; sport- ing goods; and wood and wood products of vari- ous types, are freely importable. The impor ta t ion of 4W i th effect from August 20,1994, commercial banks have been prohibited from accepting new deposits and, w i th effect from Oc- tober 1,1994, interest accruing on existing balances has been per- mitted to be transferred abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 227 restricted items has been liberalized by permitting a large number of specified restricted items (includ- ing certain consumer goods) to be imported with freely transferab le special import licenses that are granted to export houses, trading houses, star trad- ing houses, super star trad ing houses, exporters of electronic and telecommunications equipment, deemed exporters, and exporters and manufac tur- ers who have acquired prescribed quality certifica- tion. Certain specified types of petroleum products, fertilizers, edible and nonedible oils, and seeds and cereals are canalized for import through the state trading enterprises, i.e., Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd., State Trading Corporation of India Ltd., and the Food Corporation of India. Gold and silver may be imported with transferable special import licenses. However, the importation of gold up to five kilograms is allowed as part of the baggage of passengers of Indian origin or passengers holding a valid passport issued under the Passports Act of 1967, who come to India a f ter staying abroad for a period of not less than six months, and is subject to payment of customs duty in convertible currency. Import licenses are issued with a validity of 12 months; in the case of capital goods imports, they are valid for 24 months. Advance licenses are granted for duty-free imports of raw materials, intermediates, components, consumables, parts, accessories, packing materials, and computer soft- ware required for direct use in the product to be exported. When a valid import license is held, the required foreign exchange is released by an autho- rized bank on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make payments by opening let- ters of credit or by remitting against sight draf ts. The contracting of suppliers' credits exceeding 180 days and other long-term import credits is subject to prior approval. Payments for imports may not generally be made before shipping documents are submitted, except for goods with import values of up to 15 per- cent with a maximum of $5,000. Advance payments in excess of $5,000 (up to 15 percent in the case of capital goods) may be made by authorized dealers against guarantees from a bank of international repute outside India. However, in special cases —for example, imports of machinery and capital goods for which deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers —the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a portion of the value of the import. In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary du ty of up to 50 percent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are food grains, raw cotton, and books. Payments for Invisibles Authority has been delegated to authorized deal- ers to approve payments for invisibles and remit- tances up to specified limits. These limits are indicative, and the dealers have been authorized to approve all bona fide requests for amounts exceed- ing these limits for purposes including business travel, participation in overseas conferences or semi- nars, studies or study tours abroad, medical treat- ment and checkups, and specialized apprenticeship training. Authority has also been delegated to autho- rized banks to approve remittances for certain pur- poses, without limit, subject to certain guidelines. Restrictions on the transfer abroad of current income (net of taxes) earned on investments by nonresident Indians and overseas corporations predominantly owned by nonresident Indians, and of other current income, such as pensions, are to be phased out dur- ing the financial years 1994/95 to 1996/97. Earnings that have accumulated during the period up to March 31, 1994, however, will remain nontransfera- ble. Under the statement of industrial policy announced in July 1991, transfers abroad of divi- dends from consumer goods industries by nonresi- dent investors must be balanced by export earnings for a period of seven years from the date of com- mencement of commercial production. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals who do not reside per- manently in India may be paid only in foreign cur- rency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pension funds; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries whose permanent residence is outside of India are allowed, subject to certain conditions and provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in India on account of their employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 INDIA those from Pakistan, up to 75 percent of net income, provided that they hold valid employment visas. Resident Indian nationals may travel abroad freely without exchange formalities. Effective March 1, 1994, exchange facilities have been avail- able to resident Indian nationals under the Basic Travel Quota Scheme. Under this scheme, foreign exchange up to $2,000 a person a year may be released by authorized dealers for one or more trips abroad, except for visits to Bhutan and Nepal; in the determination of eligibility under this scheme, all foreign travel other than that covered under the Basic Travel Quota is disregarded. The indicative limits for various categories of business travel were raised in 1995 as follows: (1) The per diem for senior executives under the Special Scale was raised to $500, and for the others under the General Scale to $350. (2) Indian firms participat- ing in trade fairs and exhibitions abroad can obtain foreign exchange up to $20,000 or its equivalent, as compared to Re 200,000 previously. This is also applicable to private printers and publishers wish- ing to participate in overseas book fairs and exhibi- tions. (3) The limit for remittances by Indian shipping companies toward fees for solicitors and ad jus te rs was raised to $10,000 from $5,000. (4) The limit for remittances to foreign data service vendors for the use of international data bases was increased to $10,000. The exportation of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is, in general, prohibited. The exportation to Nepal of Indian cur- rency notes in denominations higher than Re 100 is also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Ind ian currency notes not exceeding Re 1,000 a person at any one time to countries other than Nepal when going abroad on a temporary visit. Authorized dealers, exchange bureaus, and autho- rized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of Re 100 to travelers going to Bangladesh and up to $50 or its equivalent to those going to other coun- tries, except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded $2,500), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign currency and taken out. Students going to foreign universities with fu ll scholarships receive a foreign exchange allowance of up to $1,500 a person for settling in and for purchas- ing initial equipment. There is also an allowance of $500 to cover the initial expenses of persons travel- ing abroad for employment purposes, and a travel allowance of $500 for medical checkups and consul- tations abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Fiji and Iraq are prohibited. Border trade between India and the Tibet region of China, and between India and Myanmar is allowed. Goods may be exported without a license, provided that they are not prohibited, restricted through licensing, or canalized. Restricted products through licensing include some mineral ores and concentrates, and chemicals including those specified in the UN Chemical Weapons Convention and Montreal Proto- col on ozone-depleting substances. Some exports are prohibited. These include all forms of wildlife, including their parts and products; exotic birds; all items of plants included in Appendices I and II of the Convention on International Trade in Endan- gered Species; beef; human skeletons; tallow, fats, and oils of any animal origin, including fish oil; wood and wood products in the form of logs, timber, stumps, roots, bark, chips, powder, flakes, dust, pulp, and charcoal; wild orchids; chemicals included in Schedule I of the UN Chemical Weapons Conven- tion; sandalwood, excluding some fu l ly finished products; and certain specified categories of red sanders wood. Other items, including stone boul- ders and wheat, are subject to minimum export prices. Exports of footwear, and roasted and salted peanuts are permitted on a decontrolled basis. A substantial number of exports, mainly new manu- factures such as engineering goods, chemicals, plas- tic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, marine products, processed food and agricultural products, handicrafts, textiles, and ju te and coil products, receive import du ty drawbacks, a refund of the cen- tral excise duty, and exemptions. Bona f ide foreign tourists may, with the approval of Customs, take out of India articles purchased with foreign exchange or with rupees acquired against foreign exchange with no limit on value. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhu tan and Nepal. Exporters must declare that fu ll export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange earnings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer. Exporters and other recipients of foreign exchange are permitted to retain up to 25 percent of receipts in foreign currency accounts with banks in India. In the case of 100 percent export-oriented units, units in export-processing zones, and un i ts in hardware and software technol- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 229 ogy, up to 50 percent of foreign exchange receipts may be retained. Export proceeds must be repatri- ated by the due date of receipt or within six months of shipment, whichever is earlier, and surrendered to authorized dealers as required, unless specifically permitted by general or special permission from the Reserve Bank to retain them either with authorized dealers in India or with banks abroad. Concerning exports made to Indian-owned warehouses abroad established with the permission of the Reserve Bank, a maximum period of 15 months is allowed for real- ization of export proceeds. Exporters are required to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank through authorized dealers in the event that the export value is not realized within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank also administers a scheme under which engineering goods (capital goods and con- sumer durables) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, so that the full export value is paid in installments over more than six months. The status of exporters is based on their average gross and average net export earnings in the preced- ing three years as follows: export houses, Re 100 mil- lion and Re 60 million, respectively; trading houses, Re 500 million and Re 300 million, respectively; star trading houses, Re 2.5 billion and Re 1.25 billion, respectively; and super star trading houses, Re 7.5 billion and Re 4 billion, respectively. Exporters are also granted a certificate of export, trading, star trad- ing, or super star trading house status (1) if their gross export earnings during the preceding year were Re 150 million, Re 750 million, Re 3 billion, or Re 10 billion, respectively; (2) if their net foreign exchange earnings during the preceding licensing year were Re 120 million, Re 600 million, Re 1,500 million, or Re 6,000 million, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and sold in the interbank market. The importation of Indian currency notes and coins is prohibited. How- ever, any person may bring into India Indian cur- rency notes (other than notes of denominations larger than Re 100) from Nepal. Indian travelers may bring in up to Re 1,000 a person in Indian currency notes from other countries if they previously took out this amount when leaving India to travel abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent and /or the aggregate value of foreign currency notes brought in at any one time exceeds $2,500 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipts of inward remittances from any country through authorized dealers in India; the subsequent use of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, subject to a maximum of $500,000 or its equivalent for meeting requirements of normal exchange business. They may obtain loans or overdrafts from their overseas branches or correspondents in excess of this limit solely for the purpose of replenishing their rupee resources in India without prior approval from the Reserve Bank; repayment of such borrowings requires prior approval from the Reserve Bank or may be allowed only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank or financial institution, and is clear of all money market borrowings for a period of at least four weeks before the repayment. Persons residing in India may not borrow any for- eign exchange from other persons residing inside or outside of India without prior permission from the Reserve Bank. The contracting of all foreign cur- rency loans and credits secured from nonresident persons and companies (including banks), as well as repayment of such loans and credits and payments of interest and other charges on such loans, requires prior permission from the Reserve Bank. The proce- dure prescribed for raising foreign currency loans by Indian entities envisages that borrowing proposals, except when loans are for less than one year, must be cleared by the Ministry of Finance before they are approved by the Reserve Bank. Nonresidents, noncitizens, and nonbank compa- nies not incorporated under Indian law must have permission from the Reserve Bank to initiate, expand, or continue any business activity in India and to hold or acquire shares of any company carry- ing on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India. Persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside abroad may invest freely in any public or pri- vate limited company engaged in any activity except agricultural or plantation activities and real estate business (excluding real estate development, that is, construction of houses, etc.), or in any partnership or proprietary concern engaged in any activity other than real estate business and agricultural or planta- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 INDIA tion activity, provided that (1) funds for investment are either remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or are drawn from their nonresi- dent accounts; (2) that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising there- from will not be requested; and (3) that overall limits on holdings of shares and convertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by nonresident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas companies, societies, and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by non- residents of Indian nationality or origin, and over- seas trusts in which at least 60 percent of the beneficial interest is irrevocably held by nonresident Indians, are also allowed to invest in any public or private limited companies in accordance with the above provisions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies, as defined above, may use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their nonresident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts to (1) make portfolio investments with repatriation benefits up to 1 percent of the capital, provided that their total holdings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a repatriable or nonrepatriable basis by all nonresident investors do not exceed (a) 5 percent of the paid-up capital of the company concerned, or (b) 5 percent of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the company concerned. However, if a company so resolves through a general body resolution, then purchases of shares or debentures of such a company could be made up to 24 percent as against 5 percent men- tioned at (b) above; (2) invest freely in national sav- ings certificates with full repatriation benefits; (3) invest up to 40 percent of the new equity capital issued by a company setting up industrial manufac- turing projects, hospitals (including diagnostic cen- ters), hotels of at least three-star category, and shipping, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; and (4) invest up to 100 percent of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial undertakings in specified priority industries listed in Annex III to the Statement on New Industrial Policy with free repa- triation of such investment. Investments in companies engaged in real estate development (e.g., construction of houses) up to 100 percent of new investments may have to be locked in for a period of three years for disinvest- ment. After three years, remittances of disinvest- ment will be allowed up to the original investment in foreign exchange. In case of overseas corporate bodies, profits will be allowed to be repatriated up to 16 percent. Income from the investment will also be allowed to be repatriated after deduction of applica- ble domestic taxes. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies, as defined above, may also place funds with public limited companies in India as deposits, with full repatriation benefits, provided that (1) the deposits are made for three years; (2) the deposits are made in conformity with the prevailing rules and within the limits prescribed for acceptance of deposits by such companies; and (3) the funds are made available by the depositors through remittances from abroad or through payments from their nonresident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts. Special tax concessions apply to investments by nonresident Indians. The Reserve Bank may grant automatic approval for foreign direct investments up to 51 percent of the paid-up capital of the Indian companies that are engaged in manufacturing activities in the 35 prior- ity manufacturing sectors. Applications for invest- ments in areas that do not fall within the authority of the Reserve Bank but that are covered by the foreign investment policy are approved by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). Such invest- ments may be approved up to 100 percent of capital on a case-by-case basis. The Ministry of Industry is the relevant agency for all issues related to foreign direct investment, including approvals. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) (e.g., pension funds, mutual funds, investment trusts, asset man- agement companies, nominee companies, and incor- porated or institutional portfolio managers) are permitted to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secondary markets, including equity and other securities and instru- ments of companies listed on the stock exchange in India. FIIs are required to register initially with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and with the Reserve Bank. Authorization from the Reserve Bank enables FIIs to (1) open accounts denominated in foreign currency; (2) open nonresi- dent rupee accounts for the purposes of operating securities investments; (3) transfer balances between foreign currency accounts and the rupee account; and (4) transfer abroad capital, capital gains, divi- dends, and interest income. There is no restriction on the value of investments by FIIs in the primary and secondary markets, but investment in debt instru- ments may not exceed 30 percent of total invest- ment. Portfolio investments in primary or secondary markets are subject to a ceiling of 5 percent of the issued share capital for individual FII holdings and 24 percent of issued share capital for the total hold- ings of all registered FII in any one company, with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 231 the exception of (1) foreign investments under finan- cial collaboration, which are permitted up to 51 percent; and (2) investments through offshore single and regional funds, global depository receipts, and convertibles in the Euromarket. Investment in trading companies. Trading companies must be registered with the Ministry of Commerce and must obtain a certificate of their status as either export, trading, star trading, or super star trading house before applying to the Reserve Bank for remit- tances or dividends. Foreign direct investment is permitted in trading companies. The Reserve Bank has the authority to permit foreign investment of up to 51 percent of the paid-up capital of such Indian companies. A higher percentage is considered for approval by the FIPB, and even 100 percent foreign equity may be approved, provided that the fund ing company is primarily engaged in exports. Increase in foreign equity in existing companies. Exist- ing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio of foreign equity shares to 51 percent of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential allocation of shares to the foreign inves- tor. Firms in certain manufacturing industries and tourist industries (hotels, restaurants, and beach resorts) may increase the equity ratio immediately. Others may increase the equity ratio as part of expansion, provided the expansion is in specified manufacturing or tourist industries. In both cases, the Reserve Bank grants automatic approval. The Reserve Bank issued revised guidelines to determine the issue price of shares issued to nonres- idents by existing Indian companies through prefer- ential allotments, in order to bring them in line with those issued by the Government and the SEBI. Accordingly, every preferential allotment of shares by listed companies to foreign investors should be at the market price.5 Prior approval from the Reserve Bank is required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to residents. However, sales and transfers of shares of Indian companies through stock exchanges in India by non- residents of Indian nationality or origin in favor of Indian citizens or persons of Indian origin and Indian companies do not require the Reserve Bank's clearance when the proceeds of such shares sold by 5As per the revised guidelines, the va lua t ion of such shares, ef- fective 30 days prior to the shareholders' general meeting, is re- quired to be at least the higher of the average of weekly highs and lows of the closing share prices for the preceding six months quoted on a stock exchange for the preceding fo r tn ight or the av- erage of weekly highs and lows of the closing prices on a stock exchange on which the highest trad ing volume in respect of the shares of the company have been recorded. the transferer are credited to his or her ordinary non- resident rupee account with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India without a right of repatriation outside India. The transfer of shares by nonresidents in favor of nonresidents, residents, or non-Foreign Exchange Regulation Act companies does not require clearance from the Reserve Bank, provided that the shares are purchased by the non- residents under the portfolio investment scheme on a repatriation basis and are sold on stock exchanges through the same authorized dealer. In such cases, the sale proceeds may be credited to NRER or FCNR accounts after deduction of tax or may be remitted abroad. Nonresident Indians and overseas corporate bod- ies are allowed to (1) invest in the schemes of all domestic public sector and private sector mutual funds and also invest through secondary markets on a repatriation basis after complying with certain conditions; and (2) invest in bonds issued by public sector undertakings in India on a repatriation basis after complying with necessary stipulations. Non- resident Indians in Nepal are permitted to invest in India, but funds must be remitted in free foreign exchange through banking channels. The repatria- tion of such investment would, however, be subject to the existing terms and conditions. The following capital transactions by residents require approval from the Reserve Bank: (1) holding, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable property outside India (unless acquired while a non- resident of India); (2) exportation of Indian securities and transfers of Indian securities to nonresidents; (3) guaranteeing of obligations of a nonresident or of a resident in favor of a nonresident; and (4) associa- tion with, or participation in, the capital of any busi- ness concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be generally repatri- ated at any time. However, approval must be obtained from the Reserve Bank before effecting a sale that involves repatriation of assets. The pro- ceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligi- ble for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are granted foreign exchange facilities up to $500 a person or $1,000 a family for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hard- ship, foreign exchange may be released up to a rea- sonable amount in one lump sum; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonres- ident account, and no fur ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are normally allowed. However, Indian nationals who left the country permanently ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 INDIA before the introduction of exchange controls in India (that is, July 1947 against the former Sterling Area countries, and September 1939 against other coun- tries) are permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equivalent of Re 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual install- ments not exceeding Re 500,000. Foreign nationals who are temporarily residing in India (other than nationals of Pakistan) and foreign diplomatic per- sons are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Re 1 million for each family at the time of retirement, and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Re 500,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the importation into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, transfer, exportation, or other disposal of for- eign securities requires approval. Natural persons who are residents (other than foreign nationals tem- porarily but not permanently residing in India and their foreign-born wives also not permanently resid- ing in India) are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. For- eign-born widows of Indian nationals are permitted to transfer initially a sum of Re 1 million when they leave India permanently; thereafter, they are allowed to remit up to Re 500,000 a year out of capi- tal and income. Transfers abroad of legacies, inherit- ances, and bequests by persons who were never residents of India are subject to the same limits. Indian nationals, legal heirs, resident donees, and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports, who reside abroad and wish to return to India, are not required to surrender on their arrival foreign currency assets they acquired lawfully while resid- ing outside India, provided they stayed abroad con- tinuously for at least one year. Under the Resident Foreign Currency Account Scheme, Indian nationals (returning permanently to India from abroad) are permitted, within three months of their arrival, to open and operate without restriction resident foreign currency accounts in any permitted currency with authorized dealers in India; all foreign exchange transferred from abroad may be credited to these accounts. Gold The Gold Control Repeal Act of 1990 eliminated restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of sil- ver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of silver products are subject to quota restrictions. The importation and exportation of gold in any form by residents are regulated by the import policy in force. Exporters of gold and silver jewelry may import their essential inputs such as gold, silver mountings, findings, rough gems, precious and semiprecious synthetic stones, and unprocessed pearls with import licenses granted by the licensing authority. Under this scheme, the foreign buyer may supply in advance gold or silver free of charge for the manufacture and ultimate export of gold or sil- ver jewelry and articles thereof. Under the Gold Jewelry and Articles Export Pro- motion and Replenishment Scheme, exporters of gold jewelry and articles are entitled to replenish gold through the designated branches of the State Bank of India or any other agency nominated by the Ministry of Commerce at a price indicated in the cer- tificate issued by the State Bank of India af ter pur- chase of gold. The Scheme is limited to exports that are supported by an irrevocable letter of credit, pay- ment of cash on a delivery basis, or advance pay- ment in foreign exchange. Exports of gold jewelry may also be allowed on a collection basis (docu- ments against acceptance). The exporter has the option to obtain gold from the State Bank of India in advance. On presentation of required documents, the appropriate release order and gem replenish- ment license may be issued by the licensing author- ity, provided that the exporters satisfy value-added and other requirements under the Scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Special permission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-exportation, provided that payments for the importation will not be required, the entire quantity of metal imported will be re- exported in the form of jewelry, and the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry produced in India for exportation, with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited unless effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The net exportation of gold from India is not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 233 Changes During 1995 Prescription of Currency December 4. Settlement of payments for imports of sugar, fertilizer, and pulses from any of the ACU countries were allowed to be made outside the ACU mechanism in any permitted currency. Indian exporters were also permitted to accept payment in free foreign exchange for their exports to ACU coun- tries, provided such payment is voluntarily offered by the importer in the ACU country. Payments for Invisibles June 30. The indicative limits for various catego- ries of business travel were raised as follows: (1) The per diem for senior executives under the Special Scale was raised to $500 and for others under the General Scale to $350. (2) Indian f irms participating in trade fairs and exhibitions abroad could now obtain foreign exchange up to $20,000 or its equiva- lent, as compared to Re 200,000 previously. This is also applicable to private printers and publishers wishing to participate in overseas book fairs and exhibitions. (3) The limit for remittances by Indian shipping companies toward fees for solicitors and adjusters was raised to $10,000 from $5,000. (4) The limit for remittances to foreign data service vendors for the use of international data bases was increased to $10,000. July 5. Authorized dealers were allowed to pro- vide foreign exchange to their customers without prior approval of the Reserve Bank, beyond the specified indicative limits for purposes including business travel, participation in overseas confer- ences and seminars, studies and study tours abroad, medical treatment and checkups, and specialized apprenticeship training, provided that they were satisfied about the bona f ide character of the application. November 11. Family un i ts of resident Ind ian nationals may remit through authorized dealers up to $5,000 a calendar year to their close relatives residing abroad for their maintenance expenses. Proceeds from Invisibles June 22. Incoming travelers were required to declare foreign currency notes brought in at any one time when the aggregate amount exceeds $2,500. June 22. Resident donees and legal heirs were included in the definition of "returning Indians" and, therefore, will not be required to surrender their foreign currency assets. Capital June 16. The Reserve Bank issued revised guide- lines to determine the issue price of shares issued to nonresidents by existing Indian companies through preferential allotments, in order to bring them in line w i th those issued by the Government and the SEBI. Accordingly, every preferential allotment of shares by listed companies to foreign investors should be at the market price. The shares allotted on a preferential basis are not transferable in any manner for a period of five years from the da te of their allotment. November 11. Nonresident Indians and overseas corporate bodies were allowed to (1) invest in the schemes of all domestic public sector and private sector mu tual funds and also invest through sec- ondary markets on a repatriation basis a f ter com- plying with certain conditions; (2) invest in bonds issued by public sector undertakings in India with repatriation of both the principal and interest; and (3) purchase shares of Indian public sector enter- prises on a repatriation basis af ter complying with necessary stipulations. Nonresident Indians in Nepal were permitted to invest in India with funds remitted in free foreign exchange through banking channels. The repatriation of such investments would, however, be subject to the existing terms and conditions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of December 33, 2995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. Its exchange value is determined by Bank Indonesia under a system of managed float, under which the bank announces daily buying and selling rates that are computed on the basis of a basket of weighted currencies with a spread of ±Rp 22. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. On Decem- ber 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for spot transactions were Rp 2.293 and Rp 2.323, respec- tively, per $1. Exchange rates for certain other cur- rencies1 are determined by reference to the cross rates of the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in international markets. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange rates announced by Bank Indonesia apply only to certain transactions undertaken at cer- tain times of the day. For all other transactions, banks are free to set their own rates. Purchases and sales of foreign currency bills by Bank Indonesia are conducted from 8:00 a.m. to 11:45 a.m. on the basis of buying and selling rates announced at 3:00 p.m. of the previous business day. Spot and forward trans- actions, however, are conducted at rates fixed bilat- erally between Bank Indonesia and the bank concerned. In addition, from 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, Bank Indonesia fixes a rate for spot transactions with banks; such transac- tions are normally conducted to enable the banks to adjust their net open positions. At other times, spot and forward transactions are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between Bank Indonesia and the banks concerned. Foreign exchange transactions are restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institutions, and licensed money changers. Bank Indonesia trades unlimited amounts of foreign exchange or rupiah with authorized trad- ers at its intervention rates for the day. Bank Indonesia does not accept investment swaps with a maturity of more than two years offered at the initiative of banks, and only provides liquidity swaps on its initiative. 1 Those commonly used in Indonesia's international transac- tions: Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Bru- nei dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ma- laysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Nor- wegian kroner, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. The commercial banks' weekly net foreign exchange open positions are limited to 25 percent of capital. Separate limits apply to total exposures and off-balance sheet exposures. A bank whose net open position exceeds the limit is subject to a penalty. Indonesia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 7, 1988. Administration of Control Administration of the exchange and trade system is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Policies on for- eign exchange market operations are enacted by Bank Indonesia. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized foreign exchange banks and are normally effected in convertible currencies. Indonesia main- tains no operative bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by resi- dents or foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiah or foreign currencies with authorized for- eign exchange banks. However, if holders of accounts in foreign exchange wish to withdraw funds, they must send a letter to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers. Only Indonesian nationals may be authorized as import- ers, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Although all imports into Indonesia are subject to licensing requirements, most are classified under the nonresident license (also called General Importer License). Imports from Israel and the countries against which the United Nations (UN) has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of certain products. In addition, secondhand engines and their parts and other capital goods may be imported by industrial firms for their own use or for the recondi- 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 235 tioning of their industry, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministries of Trade and of Industry. Certain categories of agricultural imports, including foodstuffs, beverages, and fruits may be imported only by registered importers designated by the Min- ister of Trade. The procurement policies of compa- nies approved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic beverages, and chickens are evaluated annually by the Government, although explicit quantitative restrictions are not placed on these products. Import controls remain on about 12 percent of total imports. Imports of certain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enter- prises. For example, Pertamina has a monopoly on the importation of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and PT Dahana, on the importation of ammuni- tion and explosive gelatin. The Board of Logistics (BULOG) has the sole right to import rice, fertilizer, and sugar. The monopoly rights of approved import- ers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importa- tion of certain heavy equipment and motor vehicles, although this right may be transferred to general importers. The importation of trucks is subject to restriction. Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Imports into Indonesia are subject to preshipment inspection in the exporting country by agencies des- ignated by the Government of Indonesia; inspection expenses are borne by the Indonesian Government. Following inspection, the PT Surveyor Indonesia in Jakarta is required to issue on behalf of its agency in the exporting country a survey report (LPS) specify- ing the type, quality, quantity, and estimated cost of the goods, the applicable tariff code, freight charges, import duties, and value-added taxes; the LPS must be sent by the agency in Jakarta directly to the bank that has opened letters of credit or, for imports not covered by letters of credit, to the bank designated by the importer. After paying duties based on the price fixed by the agency and taxes, the importer presents all import documents to customs for release of the shipment. The Directorate General of Customs and Excise does not examine goods that have an LPS, except those that are valued at less than $5,000 or are suspected to be illegally imported. Imports for for- eign capital investment and domestic capital invest- ment must have an LPS. Cement-asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. ited, as are exports to all countries of certain catego- ries of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, brass and copper scrap (except from Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cultural value. Exporters are required to possess trade permits, which are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Certain producer- exporters of rubber, plywood, and animal feed may issue certificates of quality for their products. Qual- ity controls are also maintained on certain products, including fish, manioc (cassava), shrimp, coffee, tea, pepper, spices, vegetable oil, and cocoa beans. Exports of certain domestically produced commodi- ties must have.prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic pro- cessing of certain raw materials.2 Concern about domestic price stability sometimes leads to suspen- sion of exports of various items in this category. In 1990, producer-exporters of cement and clinkers were allowed to export these products with the approval of the Ministry of Trade, as shortages developed on the domestic market. Several catego- ries of gold and silver may be exported only by exporters who possess certification from PTAneka Tambang and authorization from the Ministry of Trade. Most other products are freely exported by regis- tered private firms and state trading firms. However, manioc (cassava) may be exported only by approved exporters. Textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consuming'countries may be exported only by approved textile exporters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commodity Exchange Board. All exports of rattan, leather, wood, and wood products must be examined before shipment. Exports of sawn timber and wood products require approval from the joint marketing body and may be made only by approved exporters. A minimum price of $250 a cubic meter applies to exports of sawn and processed timber, and export taxes ranging from $250 to $4,800 a cubic meter are imposed on these products. Exports of logs are subject to export taxes ranging from $500 to $4,800 a cubic meter; certain processed woods, such as finger-jointed walls, pan- els, and molding, are not taxed. Certain other prod- ucts are subject to export taxes, which range from 5 percent to 30 percent (the tax rate on leather prod- Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo, are prohib- 2Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fertil- izer, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soy- beans, rice, copra, olein, raw ra t tan, meat, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 INDONESIA ucts is 20 percent, and the tax rates on rattan are $14- $15 a kilogram). For all goods subject to the export tax and the export surcharge, payment is due when the exports are registered with foreign exchange banks. If the export tax and export surcharge are not yet settled at the time of registration, exporters are required to submit promissory notes for their value. Promissory notes may be settled in three ways. Exports without a letter of credit should be settled with the foreign exchange bank not later than 30 days from the date of export registration. Exports using consignment and usance letters of credit should be settled not later than 90 days from the date of export registra- tion. Exports with sight letters of credit must be set- tled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangements exporters may use. There are no sur- render or repatriation requirements for export pro- ceeds. In the calculation of export taxes on the principal commodities, other than petroleum and gas, sale prices must not be lower than the "indica- tive" prices determined periodically by the Minister of Trade. To enable producer-exporters to obtain their imported inputs at international prices, exporters and suppliers of inputs for exporters are permitted to bypass the import-licensing system and import tar iffs or, if they cannot bypass the system, to reclaim import duties; the costs imposed by non-tariff barri- ers, however, cannot be rebated.3 Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain goods. In this "border-crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions must not exceed Rp 600 a single trip or Rp 3,000 a month, whether transported by land or by sea. For the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equiva- lent of $150 a single trip if transported by seagoing vessels or $1,500 if transported by smaller boats. The Indonesian Government may require all for- eign firms bidding for government-sponsored con- 3Under th is scheme, exporters are classified as producer- exporters (f irms that export at least 65 percent of their total pro- duc t ion) or as exporter-producers (f irms that export 85 percent of the ir production and producers of textiles in general). Producer- exporters may bring in to the country their imports free of licens- ing restrictions and import duties, but w i th ex post documenta- tion. If exporter-producers can demonstrate that their ou tput was, or will be, exported or that their ou tput was an input in an exported ou tpu t, then they can also receive the same permission to import their inpu ts as producer-exporters. The scheme also al- lows ind irect exporters to reclaim import du t ies through a du ty d rawback fac i l i ty. struction or procurement projects, whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 million, to agree to fulfill a counterpurchase obligation. Bidders for projects that include counterpurchase require- ments must submit with their bids a letter in which they agree to purchase and export the equivalent of the contract's f.o.b. value in selected Indonesian products (agricultural products, and manufactured and other products, excluding petroleum, natural gas, and items subject to export quotas) during the life of the contract.4 The foreign supplier may fulfill the counterpurchase requirement either directly or through a third party, possibly from another country that is acceptable to the Indonesian Government. Such an arrangement must meet the condition of "additionally"; that is, the counterpurchases by the third party have to be in addition to regular exports from Indonesia. Indonesian products purchased under countertrade arrangements must be shipped regularly and in stages during the validity of the contract on the government procurement, and these shipment obligations must be completed at the end of such a purchasing contract. If, when the project is completed or the purchase is implemented (govern- ment import) the exportation from Indonesia has not yet been completed, a penalty amounting to 50 percent of the export value will be imposed on the responsible party (to date this provision has not been implemented). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are neither restricted nor subject to control. Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but only Rp 50,000 in Indonesian notes and coins, other than gold and silver com- memorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Incentives for foreign direct investments include an exemption or relief from import duties on capital goods, raw materials, auxiliary goods, and spare parts; an annual depreciation allowance of 25 per- cent for fiscal purposes on virtually all machinery 4The following are exempt from these requirements: (1) sources of import financing derived from soft loans and loans from the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Asian Devel- opment Bank; (2) domestic components contained in the contract w i th the foreign suppliers, such as components of services, goods, and taxes or duties; (3) services that are used by various government agencies related to specific expertise, such as foreign accountants, lawyers, surveyors, consultants' services, purchases of technology (patents), etc.; and (4) purchases or imports under the joint-venture system between state companies and foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 237 and other productive capital goods; and deferral of value-added tax on imports of capital goods. All foreign enterprises are eligible to receive pref- erential customs duty treatment for imports of required raw materials for the first two years of pro- duction activity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise export- ing more than 65 percent of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to maintain its export commitments. Managers of representative offices of a foreign company are granted multiple exit and re- entry permits for six months and are exempt from the Rp 25,000 departure tax. Full foreign ownership in foreign direct invest- ments is allowed in certain sectors if the investments meet certain criteria. Pursuant to Government Regu- lation No. 20/1994 (July 29, 1994), foreign investors may reinvest profits in the shares of other foreign firms. Investors are granted the right to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia and relating to depreciation allowances. The law pro- vides that no transfer permit shall be issued for cap- ital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, however, for- eign payments do not require a transfer permit. Foreign ownership of direct investment must begin to be divested by the eleventh year of produc- tion. For investments above $50 million, divestment of 51 percent must be completed within 20 years. For smaller investments, the divestment requirement is less stringent. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indo- nesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. A reserve requirement of 2 percent is applicable to the foreign currency liabili- ties of foreign exchange banks; no reserve require- ments are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank financial institutions or private companies. Banks' short-term foreign exchange liabilities may not exceed 30 percent of their own capital, and they are required to allocate at least 80 percent of all for- eign exchange credits to export-oriented businesses that earn foreign exchange. A Commercial Offshore Loan Team (consisting of the State Secretary, the ministers of all economic portfolios, and the Gover- nor of Bank Indonesia) established in September 1991, supervises all foreign commercial loan transac- tions. The prior approval of the team is required before any public enterprise, commercial bank, or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. These limits do not apply to private enterprises. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign nationality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiah or in foreign currency. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed principally by the Petroleum Law of 1960. Gold Indonesia has issued two commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indo- nesia. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and sil- ver coins issued in August 1970, and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per $1. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement June 30. Bank Indonesia began announcing buying and selling rates computed on the basis of a basket of weighted currencies with a spread of ±Rp22. (Prior to that date, the spread was ±Rp 15.) July 17. Bank Indonesia terminated the provision of investment swaps. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial. The exchange rate system consists of two rates for the U.S. dollar: (1) the official rate, which is fixed at Rls 1,750 per $1, applies mainly to the imports of essential goods; and (2) the export rate, which is fixed at Rls 3,000 per $1, applies to all other transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the banking system. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions must take place through the banking system. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodi- cally by the Ministry of Commerce after approval from the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Settlements of current transactions with the mem- ber countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) — Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka —are required to be effected in Asian monetary units (AMUs); settlements with these countries are made every two months through conversion of AMUs. All bilateral payment arrangements have been ter- minated and the outstanding credit balances are in the process of being settled. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts and foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. The balances of rial accounts may be used only in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Foreign currency accounts bear interest at LIBOR plus 1 percent. Imports from Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. The import policy is re-examined periodically at the end of each Iranian calendar year (March 20), and new regulations effective for the following year are published by the Ministry of Commerce. The regulations distinguish between "authorized," "con- ditional," and "prohibited" goods. The importation of authorized goods is unrestricted. Conditional goods are those goods whose importation is tempo- rarily prohibited by the Government or is contingent on the fulfillment of certain requirements. Imports of prohibited goods are not allowed. Advance pay- ments for imports of up to the full value are allowed, depending on the goods. Most imports are subject to the commercial benefit tax, which is ad valorem, and is imposed in addition to applicable customs duties. The rate of the com- mercial benefit tax for each year is specified in the Export-Import Regulations. The commercial benefit tax must be paid to customs before clearance of goods. Clearance through customs is authorized upon presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and of a permit issued by the Ministry of Commerce (this permit may be issued at the same time that letters of credit are opened and it need not be reissued). Certain goods, such as phar- maceuticals and imports by the Ministry of Post, Telegraph, and Telephone, must be accompanied by a special permit when they are cleared through cus- toms. Payments for imports made with foreign cur- rency must be accompanied by evidence that the currency was obtained from an Iranian bank before the goods may be released from customs. In the transportation of imported goods for which import letters of credit have been opened, priority must be accorded to Iranian transportation carriers (air, land, or sea). The ceiling on the amount of goods that an incoming traveler is permitted to import is governed by the Export-Import Regulations. Payments for Invisibles Imports and Import Payments All imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran must be authorized by the Ministry of Commerce before being registered with authorized banks, except for special military goods, pharmaceuticals, and souve- nirs and gifts brought in by incoming travelers. The transfer of premiums for reinsurance at the official rate can be made by the Central Insurance Company of Iran, Iran Insurance Company, Asia Insurance Company, and Alborz Insurance Com- pany through their respective foreign exchange accounts. Insurance companies owned by Iranian residents may issue insurance contracts denomi- 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 239 nated in foreign currency for imports of goods; only Iran Insurance Company may issue war-risk insur- ance in foreign currency. The transfer of income in rials earned from ticket sales by foreign airline com- panies located in Iran may be allowed at the official exchange rate by Bank Markazi. Persons requiring medical treatment abroad may obtain foreign exchange at the official exchange rate up to the amount specified by the Ministry of Health. Foreign exchange allowances at the official exchange rate are granted to students under scholar- ships in nonmedical fields with the approval of the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education, and to those in the medical field, with the approval of the Ministry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Educa- tion. Students without scholarships are allocated foreign exchange at the export rate upon evidence of acceptance by an institution and receipt of tuition invoice. The amount of allowances varies according to the cost of living in the country of study, up to a maximum of $1,470 a month; an additional 60 per- cent of the basic allowance for a spouse and 30 per- cent for each child is authorized. In certain cases when this allowance is not sufficient to cover tuition, additional amounts to cover university fees and expenses may be allowed. The transfer of profits and dividends earned on foreign direct investment can be made freely at the official exchange rate. Foreign nationals working in the Islamic Republic of Iran whose services are considered essential are allowed to remit up to 30 percent of their net salaries at the official exchange rate with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Allowances for Iranian nationals traveling abroad are up to $1,000 for each individual passport and a maximum of $500 a person traveling if a person travels with a group passport. Foreign exchange from accounts denominated in foreign currency originating abroad may be trans- ferred by natural persons without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Exports of non-oil products are not subject to limita- tion; the only requirement is that authorization be obtained for statistical purposes from the Ministry of Commerce. Exporters of non-oil products are sub- jected to 100 percent repatriation and surrender requirements, with the exception of carpets, for which 70 percent repatriation is required. Oil export proceeds are subject to a 50 percent repatriation and surrender requirement. Proceeds from Invisibles Repatriation and surrender requirements do not apply to service receipts and private transfers. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange travel- ers may bring into the country. The sale of foreign exchange to the banking system at the official exchange rate by both resident and nonresident juridical and natural persons is permitted. Capital Foreign direct investment is supervised by the Organization for Investment and Economic and Tech- nical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, if the investment was originally brought into the country in accordance with the Law Concern- ing the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Capital Investments in Iran. Repatriation of capital is guaran- teed with the approval of this agency and Bank Markazi, and in accordance with the above- mentioned law. In the case of portfolio investment, nonresidents can invest in instruments traded at the Tehran Stock Exchange, but this form of investment does not qualify for protection under the investment law. Gold No Iranian gold coin is legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold, platinum, and silver in the domestic mar- ket. Authority to export or import gold for monetary purposes is reserved for Bank Markazi. The exporta- tion of finished articles made of gold, platinum, and silver may be effected in accordance with the rele- vant regulations. The exportation of gold, platinum, and silver in the form of ingots, coins, or semifin- ished products is prohibited, except by Bank Markazi. Natural and juridical persons, including authorized banks, may import gold, platinum, and silver bullion for commercial purposes in accor- dance with the relevant regulations. Travelers may bring in jewelry up to a value equivalent to Rls 5 mil- lion, and take out the entire value, provided that it is recorded on their passport; the importation of per- sonal jewelry with a value exceeding Rls 5 million requires approval from Bank Markazi. The exporta- tion of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval from Bank Markazi. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement January 3. A 50 percent repatriation and surrender requirement was imposed on proceeds from non-oil exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN May 20. The export exchange rate was depreci- ated to Rls 3,000 from Rls 2,354 per $1. Exports and Export Proceeds May 20. The repatriation and surrender require- ments at the export rate for proceeds from exports of non-oil goods were raised to 100 percent. August 6. The repatriation and surrender require- ments for proceeds from carpet exports were low- ered to 70 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 33,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the Exchange Rate Mecha- nism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this mechanism, Ireland maintains spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units.1 The agreement commits the Central Bank of Ire- land to buy or sell the currencies of the other partici- pating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31,1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Austrian schillings 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 Deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Portuguese escudos 100 Spanish pesetas Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit 6.85 5.08 2.34 12.63 48.16 14.36 42.74 0.47 0.57 1.73 9.36 35.72 10.65 31.70 0.35 0.42 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates within fixed limits with any other currencies. On December 31, 1995 the official mid- point closing rate for the U.S. dollar was $1.60 per Irish pound. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Ireland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, on February 15,1961. Administration of Control No exchange controls are in effect in Ireland. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS were widened from ±2.25 percent (in the case of Portugal and Spain, 6 percent) to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the f luc tua t ion band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guil- der remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Import licenses, when necessary, are issued by the Department of Tourism and Trade for industrial goods and by the Department of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry for agricultural goods; import licenses are also issued in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import and export controls are administered by the revenue commissioners. In accordance with the IMF's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52-51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Ireland notified the IMF on July 21, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 of 1992, certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of financial transfers for cur- rent international transactions in respect of the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Ireland has suspended restrictions in relation to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro) in accordance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 1022 of November 22,1995. Ireland revoked restrictions in respect of Haiti on December 21, 1994, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 944 of 1994. Restrictions were also introduced in respect of Iraq on August 10, 1990 in accordance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 661 of 1990, and also in respect of the Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya on December 23,1993, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 of 1993. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain deposits in Irish pounds without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originating in cer- tain non-European Union (EU) countries are subject to either quantitative restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EU may be subject to various charges and ta r i f fs under that policy and to duties under the common customs tar iff. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 IRELAND For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (for example, specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited without special licenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds are not regulated. The Department of Tourism and Trade is responsi- ble for administering export control policy. Export controls are implemented on the basis of (1) the Con- trol of Exports Act of 1983 and the orders contained thereunder; (2) EU Regulation No. 3381/94 and Council Decision 94/942/CFSP, regarding the con- trol of exports of dual-use goods to both EU and non-EU countries that may require export licenses; and (3) UN /EU trade sanctions in force. Trade sanc- tions are currently in force against Angola, Burma, China, Iraq, Liberia, Libya, Nigeria, Somalia, Sudan, and Syria. Trade sanctions have been suspended in relation to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro) in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022 of 1995. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and pro- ceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank- notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis dur- ing 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the New Sheqel (plural New Sheqalim). Its exchange rate is defined in rela- tion to a currency basket consisting of the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The market exchange rate fluctuates within a band of ±7 percent around the midpoint rate in response to market forces and intervention policy. Since December 17, 1991, both the midpoint and the band have been adjusted grad- ually at a daily rate ("slope" of the band) that reflects the annual difference between the domestic inflation target and the projected inflation in the main trading partners. The slope of the band has been 6 percent on an annual basis since July 26,1993. On December 29, 1995, the exchange rate of the new sheqel in terms of the U.S. dollar was NIS 3.135 per $1. Forward exchange transactions between foreign currencies are permitted. Transactions in futures and options, including traded contracts, on foreign cur- rencies, foreign interest rates, commodities, and securities prices by both resident companies and individuals are allowed. However, resident firms may only enter into such contracts in order to cover commercial risks arising from permitted transac- tions; transactions in commodities may only be entered into to cover risks; and transactions, other than in traded contracts, must be carried out against an authorized dealer bank or, through it, against a foreign bank or broker. Forward exchange transac- tions between the new sheqel and foreign currencies are permitted only for up to one month and under the condition that underlying transactions are authorized up to the maturity of the forward con- tract. There is, however, a market for derivatives (forwards, swaps, options) of assets linked to, but not payable in, foreign currency. These assets and derivatives are close substitutes for foreign currency, but there is still some segmentation between the markets. Israel accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on September 21,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange; it is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other govern- ment agencies, and is carried out through banks that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange; other institutions (e.g., securities brokers and foreign exchange dealers) possess, or may obtain, a limited license to deal in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange con- trol authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign cur- rency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. Account holders may freely effect transfers from their foreign cur- rency account and may also convert funds held in the account into local currency at the market exchange rate. There are no restrictions on the opening of con- vertible local currency accounts by nonresidents; funds in these accounts may be used in permitted transactions, including transfers between nonresi- dents. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred abroad in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency or through a local currency nonresident account. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency There are two main types of accounts: (1) Foreign currency deposit accounts (PAMAH). Export proceeds and unilateral transfers directly received from abroad, as well as unused travel allowances, may be deposited in these accounts. The liquidity requirements are 6 percent for a current account of up to six days and 3 percent for a time deposit account with a maturity of up to one year, and zero for a time deposit account with a maturity exceeding one year. Resident restitution deposit accounts may be maintained under PAMAH. These accounts may be held only by recipients of restitu- tion payments or certain disability pensions. The liquidity requirement for these accounts was 25.5 percent on December 31,1995 (it has been grad- ually and automatically reduced at a fixed monthly rate since November 1991, when the rate was 90 percent with the objective of reaching the rate for 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 ISRAEL PAMAH). Funds deposited in these accounts are tax free and may be used up to a limit of $1,800 for addi- tional travel allowances. (2) Exempt resident deposit accounts. Certain resi- dents (mostly immigrants) may deposit funds brought from abroad in these accounts. Certain reg- ulations stipulate the types of funds that may be deposited in these accounts. Balances of these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. In addition, a resident may open a deposit account linked to a foreign currency (PATZAM) with a matu- rity period of not less than one month. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of quantitative restrictions. A spe- cial regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or prohibit imports from Israel. Banks automatically grant foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports when the relevant docu- ments (import documents, bills of lading, and letters of credit) are presented. Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repayment of suppliers' credits. Importers are allowed to use foreign cur- rency proceeds of loans obtained abroad directly for import payments without first depositing the funds with an authorized Israeli bank. Advance payments for imports of goods to be supplied within one year are allowed. A value-added tax of 17 percent is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods, other than fresh fru i ts and vegetables. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments abroad on account of invisibles, including tourism expenses, is pro- vided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The limit on foreign travel allowances in cash, traveler's checks, and cash withdrawals on credit cards while overseas is $7,000 a person a trip; additional cash allowances are granted if needed. There are no quantitative restrictions on the use of credit cards for purchasing tourist services. Resi- dents may make support or gift remittances abroad of up to $2,000 a year. The exchange allowance for students studying at institutions of higher education abroad is $1,000 a month in addition to tuition expenses. Foreign exchange in excess of the above- mentioned amounts may be provided on submis- sion of documentary proof of need. A resident going abroad for medical treatment who requires hospital- ization is permitted to pay up to the equivalent of $30,000 in advance. While abroad, he or she is per- mitted to pay the remainder of expenses on submis- sion of receipts. Residents, while in Israel, are permitted to make credit card payments abroad, of up to $5,500 a year. Resident travelers may take out Israeli banknotes not exceeding the equivalent of $200 a person a trip. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to take out Israeli banknotes up to the equivalent of $100, and to repurchase, through an authorized dealer at the port of departure, foreign currency up to the equivalent of $500. Nonresidents may pur- chase foreign currency on presentation of docu- ments showing previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, with a limit for each visit of $5,000 for a person over 18 years and of $2,000 for a person under 18 years (a temporary leave of less than two weeks during the visit does not affect the person's right). Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are not restricted. Remittances of profits and dividends from foreign direct investment are permitted. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of oil and certain defense equipment require licensing. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be received within 12 months of the date of export; they may be held in a PAMAH account or sold to autho- rized banks. However, exporters may retain in a bank account abroad up to 10 percent of export pro- ceeds received over the previous 12 months and use the funds to pay for imports and other authorized payments abroad. In cases where the exporter is a firm with limited liabilities, the amount allowed to be deposited in a bank account abroad is also part of the overall limit on the portfolio investment abroad of the firm. For inputs directly imported by an exporter, there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles may, in gen- eral, be kept in foreign exchange in PAMAH accounts or sold to authorized banks. Residents are free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and commodities other than securities and real estate. For 30 years after entering Israel, immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their for- eign exchange to authorized banks, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There is no limit on the amount of Israeli banknotes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 245 Capital Nonresidents are permitted to purchase real estate, traded securities, and units of mutual trust funds in Israel. To repatriate the principal on these investments, nonresidents must prove to an autho- rized bank that these were purchased through a nonresident account or from foreign currency trans- ferred from abroad. Direct loans from nonresidents to Israeli residents are not restricted. Foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of equity capital or share- holders' loans may be granted preferential tax treat- ment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment. Provident funds are permitted to invest up to 2 percent of their total assets in recognized foreign securities. Income and profits earned in foreign cur- rency by institutional investors from these invest- ments, including capital gains, are taxed at the rate of 35 percent. Active incorporated Israeli companies are permit- ted to undertake direct investment abroad (e.g., in subsidiaries and real estate) without any quantita- tive limit on the size of the investment and to hold foreign securities and deposits (exporters only) abroad, provided that the investment does not amount to more than 10 percent of their equity or 5 percent of their sales turnover, whichever is larger. Nonresidents holding Israeli securities or real estate are allowed to deposit income from these assets in their foreign currency accounts. Proceeds from sales of these assets are allowed to be deposited in their nonresident accounts, provided that the investment was carried out through a nonresident account or from foreign currency transferred from abroad. Emigrants are permitted to transfer abroad up to the equivalent of $20,000 a year of their assets kept in Israel from the third year of stay abroad up to the sixth year. As from the seventh year of stay abroad (or if they are over 60 years of age), they may transfer up to the equivalent of $50,000 a year. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are generally subject to licensing. Domestic banks are permitted to lend to nonresi- dents; if collateral is required, it has to be in the form of assets convertible into foreign currency. Individ- ual residents may buy foreign securities traded abroad, provided that the securities are held in a safekeeping deposit with an authorized dealer. Israeli mu tual trust funds are permitted to invest abroad up to 10 percent of their portfolio of financial assets (up to 50 percent in the case of funds special- izing in foreign currency investments). Resident exporters and airline and shipping com- panies may maintain foreign bank accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 30 years; otherwise, residents are not normally permit- ted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or income from these assets. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liqui- dation of foreign assets must be surrendered. Gold Residents are allowed to import and export gold, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade, and to transact in gold bullion and coins. Gold certificates are treated as foreign securities. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement June 1. The exchange rate band was widened from ±5 to ±7 percent of the central parity rate. June 5. The composition of the currency basket was adjusted on the basis of the difference between the composition of trade and the composition of the basket in 1994. It was also announced that each year, the final trade figures for the preceding year would be reviewed. If the review indicates that a change of 2 percentage points or more is required in the weight of any of the currencies comprising the basket, all the components of the basket will automatically be adjusted on April 30 of that year. August 1. Authorized dealer banks were permitted to undertake swap transactions of domestic curren- cies for foreign currencies with the Bank of Israel. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency April 1. The period during which foreign currency may be held in a resident transfer deposit (PAMAH) was extended from 14 to 30 days. Imports and Import Payments July 1. The requirements regarding the various documents that had to be submitted to the autho- rized dealer bank when making payments for imports were harmonized, so that for each transac- tion only three documents have to be submitted (a bill of lading or import list, the supplier's invoice, and the importer's statement). July 2. Payment of up to $3,000 for imports was allowed to be made upon presentation of a notice published by the supplier in a newspaper or an advertising prospectus, and payment was allowed to be made for crates remaining abroad within the framework of importing services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 Payments for Invisibles ISRAEL July 1. Upon leaving Israel, a nonresident was allowed to purchase foreign currency of up to $500 at any border crossing point and not only at an air- port or seaport, as was formerly the case. July 1. The currency control regulations governing transactions between a resident and a nonresident, and between a resident traveling abroad were extended to transactions between a resident in the Taba and Southern Sinai region and a resident trav- eling to Egypt or Southern Sinai via the Taba border crossing. As a result, a resident traveling to that region may buy the foreign currency travel allow- ance (currently $7,000), and all transactions with that region may be executed in foreign currency, as is the case with transactions abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds June 1. Port fees were applied to both exports and imports so as to eliminate an existing implicit export subsidy. Capital February 1. Provident funds were permitted to invest in approved and /or recognized foreign securi- ties and undertake forward and other future transac- tions permitted to an individual resident, provided their total investments of this kind did not exceed 2 percent of their assets. (Until the change, the provi- dent funds were allowed to invest only in approved foreign securities.) April 1. (I) In addition to their investment in approved foreign securities and deposits abroad of exporters, Israeli firms were permitted to invest in recognized foreign securities provided this consti- tuted no more than 10 percent of their equity or 5 percent of their sales turnover, whichever was highest; (2) Active Israeli firms were permitted to establish or buy firms abroad and invest capital in them as an equity holder's loan or as a guarantee; (3) Active Israeli firms were also permitted to purchase real estate abroad. In this respect, an active firm is defined as one whose audited accounts show that it has been in business for at least one year and one whose turnover for value-added tax purposes in the previous 12 months was not less than NIS 1.5 million (indexed to the December 1994 CPI); and (4) Permits for investment abroad (both direct and financial) by Israeli firms are subject to the conditions determined by the Controller of Foreign Exchange, including the following reporting requirements: (a) a company whose financial investment abroad exceeds $0.5 mil- lion must make a monthly report of its securities and deposits abroad; and (b) a company whose direct investment abroad exceeds $0.5 million must make an annual report of its direct investments abroad. July 1. A resident who has received a foreign secu- rity of any kind (even if it is neither recognized nor approved) as a gift from a nonresident is allowed to retain it, provided it is placed in a custody deposit on his or her name with an authorized dealer bank. This has brought the regulations concerning securi- ties received as a gift into line with those concerning securities received as a bequest. July 1. The maximum amount a resident can trans- fer abroad as an alimony payment was increased. A resident may now purchase foreign currency and transfer it abroad to pay alimony in accordance with the amount stipulated in the court's decision, or four times the amount permitted under the alimony leg- islation, whichever is lower. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira.1 The Ital- ian authorities generally do not intervene in the exchange market, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions. Rates for 20 foreign currencies2 are monitored every working day by the Bank of Italy exclusively for informational purposes. On December 29, 1995, the rate for the U.S dollar was Lit 1,584.72 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Residents may carry out spot and forward foreign exchange operations and transact currency options either with authorized banks or with foreign counterparts. Italy accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, on February 15,1961. Administration of Control Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlements to be effected either through authorized intermediaries (the Bank of Italy, authorized banks, and the Postal Administration) or directly, by drawing on external accounts or by offsetting debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or nonresidents. In the case of mate- rial delivery of means of payment in Italy or abroad, Italian residents are allowed to take with them into or out of the country Italian or foreign banknotes and bearer securities of any denomination up to the equivalent of Lit 20 million. For fiscal and anti- money-laundering purposes, transfers exceeding this amount must be carried out through autho- rized intermediaries. Residents are allowed to enter and leave the country carrying securities denomi- ]W i th effect from September 17, 1992, I ta ly suspended its ex- change rate intervention obligations of the European Monetary System (EMS). 2 Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- d ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escu- dos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. nated in lire or in foreign currencies worth Lit 20 million, provided that they are not bearer securities and that they are declared to customs. Nonresidents may take up to Lit 20 million in banknotes and securities of any denomination into and out of Italy without formalities. If they bring in banknotes and securities in an amount in excess of Lit 20 million, they must declare the excess amount to customs on a special form upon entering Italy. Nonresidents may re-export larger sums but only up to the amount in excess of Lit 20 million that they have imported and declared. No limit applies to exports of nonbearer securities; nonresidents need only sub- mit the above-mentioned form to customs. The lim- itations described above do not apply to transfers effected by banks when they act as senders or bene- ficiaries. However, banks are also obliged to declare their transfers by filling out a special customs form. Operators and authorized intermediaries must, for statistical purposes, transmit data to the Italian Foreign Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi (UIC)) on their foreign transactions that exceed the equivalent of Lit 20 million by filling out a foreign exchange statistical return (Comunicazione valutaria statistical. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Italy notified the Fund on August 28, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro). The above restrictions have been sus- pended in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1021 and 1022 of November 22, 1995. Similar restrictions are in force against Iraq, Libya, and the movement UNITA in Angola. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in quoted currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. Italy maintains clearing accounts with Croatia and Slovenia. The accounts are used for trade in cross-border areas. The balances in these accounts may be used only to finance trade between certain districts of Croatia and Slovenia and the Italian provinces of Trieste and Gorizia. The balances are 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 ITALY not transferable. There is no automatic mechanism through which outstanding balances are settled within 90 days. Only Italy is allowed to maintain a debit balance on these accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with autho- rized banks in lire and in foreign exchange, which may be freely debited and credited upon their request. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by European Union (EU) regulations according to which imports of most products, except for textiles and some products originating from China, are free of licensing and quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EU are subject to variable import levies, which have replaced all pre- vious barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricul- tural and livestock products from non-EU coun- tries. Payments for imports are not regulated, without prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, with- out prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Administration and Control. Domestic and for- eign banknotes up to Lit 20 million or its equivalent exported across the border by residents are free of restrictions. Exports exceeding this amount must be made through authorized intermediaries for record- ing and fiscal monitoring purposes and according to the regulations on money laundering. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to non-EU countries are free, with the exception of high-technology products included in EU Regulation 3381/94 and of oil extracted from the seabed, both of which are subject to ministerial authorization. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on receipts from invisi- bles, without prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Capital Foreign investments of any kind in Italy, includ- ing both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are not restricted, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Resi- dents and nonresidents are subject to the general regulations described in the section on Administra- tion of Control. Gold Purchases and sales of gold abroad are legally reserved for the monetary authorities. Residents may purchase and import unrefined gold under ministerial license for industrial purposes. Loans for the importation of gold are freely assumable. The exportation of unrefined gold is subject to licensing by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The importation and exportation of gold coins, includ- ing coins that are legal tender in a foreign country, are unrestricted. Imports of unrefined gold are not subject to the value-added tax, whereas imports of gold coins are subject to a value-added tax at 19 percent. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control April 7. The embargo against Haiti, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 944, was removed. November 22. The embargo against Serbia/Mon- tenegro was suspended, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1021 and 1022. (See Appendix for summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar. The Jamaican authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the spot and forward exchange rates are determined by demand and supply in the interbank market. On December 31, 1995, the average spot buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were J$39.4 and J$39.8, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The foreign exchange market is operated by the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, and the Bank of Jamaica. The commercial banks buy and sell for their own account. Foreign exchange bureaus and cambios function as points of collection, and they are required to sell to the Bank of Jamaica a pre- scribed minimum amount of foreign exchange that they have purchased. Excess foreign exchange may be sold without restrictions to the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, and the general public. Proceeds from official loans, divestment of govern- ment assets, and taxes on the bauxite sector payable in foreign currency are sold directly to the Bank of Jamaica. While there is no restriction on transactions in any currency, the principal foreign currencies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar (trade in other currencies is optional and negotiable between participating banks). While the Bank of Jamaica is primarily responsible for payments of obligations on government imports of goods and services and official debt, the public entities are free to conduct their own foreign exchange transactions. Since the amounts sold directly to the Bank of Jamaica from the sources indi- cated above are insufficient to meet the payments it must make, the Bank of Jamaica purchases its addi- tional requirement from the foreign exchange mar- ket at the prevailing rate. All private sector payments are transacted through the commercial banking system, other authorized dealers, and foreign exchange bureaus. The commercial banks also handle most service payments. On November 1,1990, the Bank of Jamaica, in con- sultation with the other central banks in the Carib- bean Common Market (CARICOM), suspended clearing arrangements within the framework of CARICOM. The Bank of Jamaica no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector commercial transactions; settlements for such transactions are effected by the commercial banking sector in convertible currencies. Jamaica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 22,1963. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Act, previously adminis- tered by the Bank of Jamaica on behalf of the Minis- ter of Finance, was repealed on August 17,1992. The provision regarding prohibition of trading in foreign exchange, except by and through an authorized dealer, was incorporated in the Bank of Jamaica Act. The Minister of Finance, however, retains the authority to issue directions to specified classes of persons regarding the acquisition of foreign assets. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by credit- ing Jamaica dollars to an external account or a for- eign currency account.1 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an external account or in any foreign currency. Foreign Currency Accounts Authorized dealers are allowed to open foreign currency accounts for residents and nonresidents. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between residents and nonresidents. External accounts may be credited with payments by resi- dents of Jamaica, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Authorized dealers are allowed to hold, for residents and nonresidents, "A" accounts in foreign currency and "B" accounts in Jamaica dollars, both of which are exempt from tax on interest earned on all deposits, provided that (1) in the case of A accounts operated by nonresi- dents, no new accounts have been operating and no new deposits have been made in existing accounts !A11 currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered for- eign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 JAMAICA after September 22,1991; and (2) in the case of B accounts operated by residents as of September 22, 1991, deposits are held as certificates of deposits with at least a one-year maturity. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for pharmaceutical products and items that endanger public health or security; otherwise, goods may be imported freely without a license. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Com- merce. Imports of motor vehicles do not require a license, but a permit is required for government sta- tistical purposes. Payments for imports may be made by commercial banks without reference to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports are subject to customs tariffs in compli- ance with the Common External Tariff (CET) Arrangement of CARICOM. The member countries of CARICOM agreed in October 1992 on a phased reduc- tion in the level and dispersion of the regional CET over the next five years. As a result, the range of import tariff rates in Jamaica was changed from zero to 45 percent to 5 to 30 percent, effective April 1, 1993; to zero to 30 percent effective April 1,1994; to zero to 25 percent effective April 1, 1995; and will eventually be reduced to zero to 20 percent by the end of 1996. Some agricultural products will remain subject to a stamp duty at a rate of up to 95 percent, and these will be reduced over a three-year period to be consistent with the CET. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported without restriction. However, specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain agricultural products, ammu- nition, explosives, firearms, antique furniture, motor vehicles, mineral and metal ores, paintings, jewelry, and petroleum products. All proceeds from exports may be used in transac- tions in the foreign exchange market without restriction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks and other authorized dealers provide foreign exchange for most service transac- tions, including business and other travel, insurance, commissions, private interest payments, medical expenses, foreign exchange refunds, cash gifts, pen- sions, and miscellaneous payments, such as registra- tion and subscription fees. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are repa- triable without restriction. Proceeds from invisibles may be used in foreign exchange market transactions without restriction. Capital All capital flows (both inflows and outflows) are free of restrictions. Commercial banks and licensed deposit-taking insti- tutions may be required to match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Jamaica dollar assets. In July 1987, a debt-equity program was intro- duced for the conversion of certain foreign commer- cial bank debts to Jamaica into equity investments in approved public and private sector entities. Under this program, profit repatriation was prohibited for three years. Capital repatriation was also prohibited for three years for investments in priority sectors and for seven years for investments in other quali- fied sectors. This program ended on March 31,1995. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circu- late. No restrictions exist on the purchase, sale, or holding of gold for numismatic or industrial purposes. Changes During 1995 Capital March 31. The debt-equity program to convert cer- tain commercial bank debts to Jamaica into equity investment, in place since July 1987, ended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disor- derly conditions in the markets. The principal inter- vention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing interbank rate for the U.S. dollar in the Tokyo mar- ket on December 29, 1995 was ¥102.905 per $1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and for- ward exchange transactions with their customers, with nonresident banks, and among themselves. Forward exchange contracts may be negotiated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Japan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on April 1,1964. Administration of Control The exchange and trade control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, how- ever, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as for- eign exchange banks. Import- and export-reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Inward direct investments have to be reported to the Minister of Finance and other appropriate ministers after such investments take place. Outward direct investments require prior notice to the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency "Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, including yen, and receipts may also be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in yen may be opened by nonresidents with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or payments from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctua- tions in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be made freely, with the exception of specifically restricted items or items from desig- nated countries. The Import Restriction System covers 77 items (four-digit Harmonized Commod- ity Description and Coding System (HS) base), which are subject to import restrictions falling under the state trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once importers obtain authorization from the MITI, they receive an import quota certificate that entitles them to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the importation of certain other goods from certain countries or shipping areas, individual authoriza- tion must be obtained from the MITI. Imports from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), Iraq, and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya require permission from the MITI. For transactions that involve pay- ments from Japan to residents of Bosnia and Herze- govina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro), Iraq, and the Libyan A rab Jamahiriya or by residents of these countries to foreign coun- tries through Japan, permission from the Minister of Finance is required. Intermediary trade of petro- leum and its products destined for Angola require permission from the MITI. Import settlements effected under the special methods (i.e., those effected by means of open accounts or those involving payments made more than two years before import declaration or after more than two years of shipment) require authoriza- tion from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without limit. Gifts and donations (except by government institutions) to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) that are valued at more than ¥5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 JAPAN payment after verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to relatives abroad may be made with- out limit. Other current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in connec- tion with travel abroad, may be made without limit. The exportation of domestic banknotes exceeding ¥5 million requires ministerial approval. Intermedi- ating businesses involving Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and Iraq require permission from the MITI. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and the Export Trade Control Order issued under the For- eign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to certain destinations, and it may cover export vol- ume, export prices, or other conditions. Voluntary restraints are applied to exports of certain textile items to the United States and the European Union (EU), to exports of passenger cars to the United States, and to exports of fo rk l i ft trucks to the EU. In addition, exports of some other products, including passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, and vid- eocassette recorders to the EU, were subject to monitoring by The Government. Twenty-seven export cartels were operating under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items were subject to a license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Con- trol Law to control their exportation to specified des- tinations either because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., nickel) or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing con- tracts and exports for which settlements are effected under the special methods described above require authorization from the MITI. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimporta- tion require individual licenses. Exports to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), Iraq, and the Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya require permission from the MITI. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted without a license. Residents as well as non- residents may freely bring in any amount in Japa- nese or foreign currency. Intermediating business related to trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) or Iraq and other countries and exports of services to these two coun- tries require permission from the MITI. Capital Capital transactions are, in principle, free unless certain procedures are specifically required. Such procedures may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, dur- ing which the Minister of Finance or the MITI may request or order that the transaction be suspended or that its particulars be modified on the basis of pre- scribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a waiting period. Acquisition of securities for portfolios may be made freely through designated securities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institu- tional investors may freely acquire securities for portfolio investments. However, acquisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones and borrowings by residents require prior notice without a waiting period. Under emergency conditions, however, most capital trans- actions that are not subject to prior approval in nor- mal conditions may be made subject to prior approval. Emergency conditions are defined as situ- ations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the maintenance of equilibrium in Japan's balance of payments difficult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to affect Japan's money or capital market adversely. A distinction is made between direct investments in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides majority equity ownership of enterprises or estab- lishment of branch operations, investments that come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted com- panies; (2) acquisition by a foreign investor of the shares of a listed company (including individual companies for which the stock price in over-the- counter transactions is made public by the Securities Dealers Association) that reach 10 percent or more when added to those owned by related persons; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year matu- rity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objec- tives of a company with one-third or more foreign ownership is also subject to the direct investment provisions. Requests or orders for suspension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the minister or ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implica- tions for national security, public order, public safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related lines of activities, the general performance of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 253 the economy, or the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment with other coun- tries. In April 1991, an amendment to the law gov- erning foreign direct investment was introduced. Under the revised law, foreign investors are required to report only after undertaking investment unless concerns mentioned above, such as national security interest, arise. Outward investments by residents in the form of loans, issue of bonds abroad by residents, issue of bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct invest- ment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to sus- pension or modification by the Minister of Finance if, in the Minister's opinion, the transaction might adversely affect (1) international financial markets or Japan's international credit standing; (2) domestic and financial capital markets; (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth per- formance of the national economy; and (4) imple- mentation of Japan's international agreements, international peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The Minister of Finance may shorten the waiting period when the transaction under con- sideration is deemed without adverse consequences. Other transactions by nonresidents may generally be carried out freely. Overseas deposits by residents, borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents other than those carried out by an autho- rized bank in Japan, and issuance of yen-denomi- nated bonds abroad by nonresidents may require prior approval. Other external transactions by resi- dents may normally be carried out freely. Issuance of securities or bonds by residents abroad and of for- eign-currency-denominated securities or bonds by residents in Japan requires prior notice to the Minis- ter of Finance. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period but, in most cases, may be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long-term basis overseas to borrowers of their choice and may accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents. Foreign currency or yen deposits of nonresidents and residents are subject to minimum reserve requirements adjusted from time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan, subject to Jap- anese banking regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign cur- rency as well as from money markets in Japan. Financial institutions apply the following pruden- tial guidelines to capital transactions: (1) a limit on the holding by insurance companies of securities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign-currency-denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds equivalent to 20 percent of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents; (4) a ceiling on foreign- currency- denominated assets purchased by pension funds equivalent to 30 percent of pension trust assets (for the new money deposited from April 1, 1990, effective December 27, 1991, the ceiling was relaxed to 50 percent on the basis of each institu- tional account, and the ceiling for foreign-affiliated companies was raised to 70 percent); (5) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign- currency-denominated bonds, excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of their net worth; and (6) a ceiling of 5 percent of assets for investment in foreign- currency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may freely transfer any amount in any foreign currency. Overseas deposits by residents up to the equivalent of ¥200 million are not restricted. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, trans- portation, and securities are permitted to maintain overseas deposits under blanket licensing. In August 1995, the Ministry of Finance announced the following measures to promote over- seas investments and loans by institutional investors: (1) Foreign-currency-denominated external loans by insurance companies are to be liberalized. (2) Restric- tions on yen-denominated external loans by insur- ance companies (so-called 50 percent rule) are to be removed. (3) The offshore seasoning period on Euroyen bonds issued by nonresidents is to be removed immediately and completely. (4) The fol- lowing accounting methods with respect to foreign bonds owned by institutional investors are to be allowed: (a) with regard to the evaluation of U.S. Treasury Bonds where only cost method has been permitted, companies are allowed to adopt either the market method or the cost method, which makes the treatment equal to that for the Japanese Government Bonds; (b) with regard to the evaluation of listed bonds, the adoption of different methods (i.e., either the cost method or the market method) is to be per- mitted for yen-denominated bonds and foreign-cur- rency-denominated bonds, respectively. This measure is expected to facilitate the adoption of the cost method for nonresident-issued Euroyen bonds; (c) the Ministry of Finance confirmed that the appli- cation of the so-called 15 percent rule is within each company's discretion, that is, each company can ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 JAPAN decide whether or not to count the valuation loss in foreign-currency-denominated bonds when foreign exchange rates move significantly. And (5) the regu- lation on foreign exchange positions imposed on authorized foreign exchange banks is to be eased to promote their yen assets to be invested into foreign- currency-denominated bonds. domestic transactions. The importation and exporta- tion of gold bullion are free from licensing. External futures in gold may be freely traded by designated companies. Changes During 1995 Capital Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in August 2. The Ministry of Finance annouced mea- sures to promote overseas investments and loans by institutional investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar. Its exchange rate is determined on the basis of its rela- tionship to the basket of five currencies that consti- tute the SDR, with the weights determined by the currencies' relative importance to Jordan's interna- tional transactions. On December 31, 1995, the offi- cial buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Jordan, the central bank, for the U.S. dollar were JD 1.4103 and JD 1.4505, respectively, per $1. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in international financial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits approved by the central bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government depart- ments and certain other approved institutions. Authorized banks are permitted to enter into for- ward contracts in major currencies against the Jor- dan dinar for commercial transactions, provided that they cover such operations abroad. For corpora- tions or projects considered to be of vital national interest, the central bank may offer a forward exchange facility in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Jordan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Febru- ary 20,1995. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the central bank, which also issues exchange permits; the central bank has delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for import payments and, within permitted annual limits, for personal invisible pay- ments. Import policy is determined by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Minis- tries of Finance, Supply, and Agriculture. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. No prescription of currency requirements is in force. Jordan's bilateral trade and payments agree- ment with the Republic of Yemen is inactive. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the central bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic and foreign currency. Withdrawals and transfers from foreign currency accounts are free of restrictions. Balances on these accounts may be with- drawn freely in convertible currency and may be used for any purpose. Interest rates are determined in line with rates prevailing in international markets. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in a foreign currency may be opened at the central bank or at any other licensed bank or financial institution by governmen- tal and semigovernmental entities, as well as by the specialized credit institutions and domestic corpora- tions of vital national interest, including public shareholding companies, provided that outstanding balances (including interest earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1 million. This ceiling may be raised in certain cases. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may main- tain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that the total balance of the depos- its that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 500,000. Balances in these accounts can be utilized for making current payments abroad consistent with regulations governing import and invisible payments. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than six months and have decided to return may continue to keep accounts in foreign cur- rencies without limit for up to five years, after which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 500,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Licensed banks and financial companies may extend credit facilities in Jordan dinars to residents and nonresi- dents against their foreign currency deposits. Extending credit facilities to residents against their foreign currency deposits requires the prior approval of the central bank. The amounts of credit facilities extended to nonresidents against their foreign cur- rency deposits should not exceed 5 percent of total credit granted by a bank or a financial company. Fur- 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 JORDAN thermore, the balance of the foreign currency deposit used as collateral against the extended credit facili- ties should not, at any time, be less than the outstand- ing balance of credit facilities. Imports and Import Payments The d ra ft law lifting the ban on imports from Israel has been submitted to Parliament. Other imports, unless mentioned in Article 3 of the Import and Export System,2 require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 2,000. Licenses are freely granted, except for five products that are reserved to state monopoly. A fee of 5 percent of the c. & f. value is charged when the import license is issued. Imports requiring a license also require an exchange permit, which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for imports except those made by government depart- ments and certain approved institutions and indi- vidual permits of less than JD300. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior approval from the central bank, which is normally given for essen- tial imports only. Imports into Free Zones Payments for imports into free zones and for tran- sit trade are subject to the prior approval of the cen- tral bank. In principle, however, it is the importer's responsibility to provide foreign currency to finance such transactions. Banks are authorized to set the percentage of advance import deposits they collect from customers against these imports at their discretion. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Residents are permitted to transfer foreign means of payment equivalent to JD 35,000 a year to meet current payments for invisibles (travel, education, medication, pilgrimage, residence abroad, family assistance, and others) without obtaining the prior approval of the central bank and without presenting any document to jus t ify these payments. They may transfer amounts in excess of JD 35,000 when justi- fied by supporting documents. In comparison, trans- fers from nonresident accounts are free of restriction. The authorized amount for subscriptions to newslet- ters, magazines, and specific bulletins is the equiva- lent of JD 1,000. The policy on payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscrimina- tory. In practice, the central bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own countries. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for invisible payments, except those of government departments and certain approved institutions, per- mits financed from nonresident accounts in foreign currency credited from sources outside Jordan, and permits with a value of less than JD 300. Remittances may be made by postal order for imports not to exceed JD 10 a person a month to any person resid- ing abroad. Premiums for life insurance policies issued by insurance companies operating in the Kingdom in favor of nonresidents or Jordanians working abroad must be collected in foreign currency from abroad or from nonresident accounts. In addition to any exchange allowances for travel, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 5,000 in Jordanian banknotes and coins. Nonresidents working in Jordan who do not have nonresident accounts may transfer up to JD 400 a month, up to a maximum of JD 5,000 a year. Fur- thermore, all travelers may take out checks, trav- eler's checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the central bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other for- eign means of payment that they had or that they had previously brought in and declared to the cus- toms authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds The d ra ft law lifting the ban on exports to Israel has been submitted to Parliament. There are no requirements affecting export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount of Jordanian and foreign banknotes and coins.3 Individuals who, for exchange control pur- poses, are considered residents of Jordan may retain ^hese include imports made on behalf of His Majesty the King, imports by government departments and certain approved institutions, and goods in trans i t. 3Approval is not granted for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 257 only the equivalent of JD 500,000 a person in foreign currency in the Kingdom, as stipulated in the For- eign Exchange Control Regulations. They must sell the excess amount to licensed banks, financial com- panies, or authorized dealers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but outward transfers by residents require approval and are not normally permitted. However, the central bank may grant permission to banks, insurance companies, contractors, and industrial, agricultural, trading, and tourism firms, to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purpose. Com- mercial banks are permitted to invest abroad up to 50 percent of their foreign exchange holdings. The transfer of funds for purposes of investment in Arab countries is permitted only if mutual treatment or bilateral agreements exist between Jordan and the country, and it is the investor's responsibility to pro- vide foreign exchange to finance such investments. Current income resulting from nonresident invest- ments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law Regulating Arab and Foreign Investments, capital, profits, and dividends from foreign invest- ments may be remitted. The Foreign Companies Registration Law No. 58 (1985) provides various benefits to foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for purposes of conducting business out- side the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Nonresidents may use convertible currencies to pur- chase Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars. Proceeds from redemption at maturity, including interest, are transferable in any convertible currency. tists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment pur- poses. Imports of gold in any form are permitted without the prior approval of the central bank, while imports of gold to be used in crafts and then re- exported are subject to the prior approval of the cen- tral bank. Exports of gold, other than gold that has been crafted and whose value has thus increased, require the prior approval of the central bank. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement February 20. Jordan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Section 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Imports and Import Payments January 25. Applications for exchange permits that include advance payments were required to be sup- ported with a letter of undertaking indicating an amount equal to the advance payment in favor of the central bank. No banking guarantee is required for exchange permits covered either from foreign currency deposits or incoming confirmed letters of credit or from external guarantees. Payments for Invisibles April 4. Nonresidents working in Jordan who do not have nonresident accounts were permitted to transfer up to JD 400 a month instead of JD 100 a month, up to a maximum of JD 5,000 a year, instead of up to a maximum of JD 1,200 a year. May 31. The remaining quantitative restrictions were eliminated, with the exception of those on essential products subject to state monopoly. Gold Capital The central bank has issued ten gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not circulate and are avail- able only to nonresidents and domestic numisma- August 31. Commercial banks were permitted to invest abroad up to 50 percent of their foreign cur- rency holdings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKSTAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Kazakstan is the Tenge. Exchange rates of the tenge against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies are determined at auctions that are held three times a week in the Kazakstan Interbank Currency Exchange (KICE). Banks may participate in auctions on their own account or on behalf of their clients. In between auc- tions, banks and enterprises are permitted to engage in spot and cash transactions at freely negotiated rates. The official exchange rate is determined on the basis of the auction rates, and is announced each Fri- day by the National Bank of Kazakstan.1 Purchasers of foreign exchange are subject to a commission fixed by the Board of the KICE, currently at 0.02 per- cent. Residents planning to sell or purchase foreign currency at the auction (via authorized banks) are required to present documents establishing compli- ance with prevailing foreign exchange regulations. There are more than 2,000 licensed exchange bureaus in Kazakstan. At the end of December 1995, the end-period exchange rate of the tenge against the U.S. dollar was T 66.4 per $1. Administration of Control The foreign exchange of April 1993 establishes the principle of convertibility for current international transactions. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations is the authority that grants licenses for export or import. The Cabinet of Ministers may decide to limit the export or import of goods not subject to licenses, depending on the economic situa- tion. In addition, the heads of local governments may set up regimes of quotas and licenses for con- sumer goods other than food. The National Bank, together with the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for the supervision of trans- actions in foreign currencies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made through a system of correspondent accounts of the National Bank and commercial banks. Resi- Official rates for more than 30 other currencies are set on the basis of the tenge-dollar rates in the auction and the cross rates in international markets. dents of Kazakstan may make and receive interna- tional payments and transfers in any convertible currency as well as in Russian rubles. In general, for- eign currency may not be used for the settlement of domestic transactions between residents.2 It is pro- hibited to use foreign exchange cash in retail trade and services on Kazak territory. Transactions between residents and nonresidents involving the sale or purchase of foreign currency are limited to those conducted through authorized banks. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individuals and enterprises may main- tain convertible foreign exchange accounts at autho- rized banks. These accounts, which bear interest, may be credited with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and bal- ances in these accounts may be freely used for any purpose. Residents may also maintain convertible currency accounts abroad with permission from the National Bank. Nonresidents may hold accounts in Kazakstan in domestic or foreign currencies; only one account is permitted. Withdrawals from these accounts, includ- ing transfers abroad, are not restricted for "I" accounts, which are for investment activities, while funds in "T" accounts, used for export and import operations with residents, cannot be freely converted and transferred abroad. There are also restrictions on the making of pre- and post-delivery import payments. Imports and Exports Trade with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union under trade agreements is conducted through acquisitions and shipments by financially independent state trading organizations, whose monopoly rights were canceled in early 1995, and other trading organiza- tions. Trade with other countries is also effected under a system of intergovernmental trade agree- Exemptions are permitted for payments to residents providing freight, insurance, or other intermediary services in respect of for- eign-currency-denominated trade; payments to residents supply- ing inputs required for the production of exports sold for foreign currencies; payments for selected domestic telecommunications services; payments to banks and other financial institutions in re- spect of liabilities incurred in foreign currencies; and where oth- erwise specially authorized by the National Bank. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKSTAN 259 merits, quotas, and licenses. Overall export quotas are prepared by the Ministry of Economy on the basis of balances of specific products in various terri- tories. There are no import quotas. In early 1995, export quotas and export and import licenses were eliminated except for a short negative list for national security, health, and safety reasons. The number of commodity groups subject to export licenses, which stood at 55 at the end of 1993, was reduced to 50 by January 1994, to 32 by the end of December 1994, and to 9 by February 1995. The number of commodity groups subject to import licenses was reduced to 11 as of end-December 1994. Export duty rates vary from zero to 25 percent for 27 major product groups, including military equip- ment. Import du ty rates for most products fall in the range of 5 percent to 30 percent, with a 50 percent rate for pearls, gems, and precious and semiprecious stones, and the maximum duty rate of 100 percent for alcoholic drinks, weapons, and ammunition. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Purchases by residents of foreign exchange for tourist purposes are limited to $500 a person; there are no limits on withdrawals from convertible cur- rency accounts for the same purposes. Purchases of foreign exchange for business travel abroad are, in principle, subject to limits, which are based on coun- try-specific norms for accommodation and subsis- tence expenses but are not officially enforced. In practice, banks are free to grant exemptions to these limits. Foreign exchange may be purchased without limit for purposes of study abroad if the appropriate documents are produced. Remittances for family maintenance purposes are subject to certain limits. Payments for invisibles that residents are permit- ted to make are officially tolerated for nonresidents. Nonresident workers in Kazakstan are free to make transfers abroad. The remittance of dividends and profits is subject to approval. There are no restrictions on the amount of domes- tic currency that residents and nonresidents may bring into or take out of the country. Capital Capital transactions between residents and non- residents require approval from the National Bank. Foreign direct investments in the defense sector are prohibited. Both residents and nonresidents are per- mitted to own land, but nonresidents cannot own agricultural land. Foreign investors are entitled to tax holidays and can freely repatriate their profits via their I accounts. Gold All transactions in gold must be effected through the primary market that is to be established, where the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance will have the first right to participate at world market prices with adjustments for insurance and freight. Until the primary market is established, the National Bank buys gold in the country at world market prices. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control August 31. The National Bank continued to be in charge of the supervision of foreign exchange trans- actions, but the Cabinet of Ministers issued a decree stipulating that the Ministry of Finance is to estab- lish a new agency that shall be responsible for enforcing foreign exchange supervision and at the same time take into account the National Bank's supervisory functions. Imports and Exports January 5. Belarus, Kazakstan, and Russia agreed to form a customs union. The first stage, which was completed in March, involved the elimination of tar- iffs between the three countries. The second stage, which involved common external tariffs, was largely completed in October/November. February 2. Export quotas and export and import licenses were eliminated, except for a short negative list for national security, health, and safety reasons. Export licenses would be required for 9 items and import licenses for 11 items. The monopoly rights of 14 state trading organizations were abolished. August 2. Surrender requirements were abolished. Repatriation requirements would remain, unless a special license is issued. The authority to reintroduce surrender requirements, previously exercised by the President, was vested with the National Bank. Capital December 26. Private ownership of land was legal- ized, but nonresidents were not authorized to own agricultural land. Gold July 20. A presidential decree was promulgated whereby foreign investors were allowed to refine pre- cious metals, including gold and precious stones, and to export raw materials, if the refined products are sold in the primary market that is to be established in Kazakstan. Domestic producers would refine pre- cious metals in Kazakstan and sell them in the pri- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 KAZAKSTAN mary market. In addition to the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and commercial banks to be licensed by the National Bank would be allowed to participate in the primary market for gold, but the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance would have the first right to buy and sell. Gold not sold on the primary market could be sold on the secondary market, including international markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of July 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, the external value of which is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the interbank market. The official exchange rate is set at the previous day's average market rate. The principal intervention cur- rency is the U.S. dollar. The official exchange rate applies only to government and government- guaranteed external debt-service payments and to government imports for which there is a specific budget allocation. On December 31, 1995, the exchange rate was K Sh 55.94 per $1. Banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange they purchase in the interbank market to any client at market-determined exchange rates, to purchase for- eign exchange in the interbank market for their own accounts, to offer forward exchange contracts to exporters and importers at market-determined rates without restriction on the amount or period covered, or to sell foreign exchange they purchase in the interbank market to another bank. Foreign exchange bureaus were authorized to deal in cash and buy for- eign traveler's checks on January 5,1995. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers at market-determined exchange rates in currencies of their choice; there are no limits on the amount or period of cover. There are no official schemes for cur- rency swaps or exchange rate guarantee schemes for external debt servicing, except for the Exchange Risk Assumption Fund (ERAF), which covers the foreign exchange losses associated with exchange rate fluc- tuations occurring after July 1,1989, for three devel- opment finance institutions. ERAF ceased to take on new commitments effective June 1994. Kenya accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 30,1994. Administration of Control On December 29, 1995, the Exchange Control Act was repealed. The Central Bank Act was amended on the same date, giving it powers to license and regulate foreign exchange transactions. There are no import controls. Import and foreign exchange allocation licenses were abolished in May 1993, except for a short negative list of goods prohib- ited for health, security, or environmental reasons. The responsibility for issuing import licenses, when required, rests with the Director of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Direc- tor also issues special licenses for the exportation of restricted goods, including certain agricultural prod- ucts and goods whose exportation is restricted based on security and environmental reasons. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of other countries may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an external account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an external account in Kenya or in any marketable for- eign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Kenyan residents who have foreign exchange earnings (including earnings from services) are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with local banks. There is no limit on the balances in these accounts. Foreigners with work permits in Kenya may open foreign currency accounts with Kenyan banks and may credit their local earnings to these accounts; use of funds in these accounts is not restricted. Accounts in foreign currency held by resi- dents of other countries with authorized banks in Kenya are designated foreign currency accounts. They may be freely credited with authorized pay- ments by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other foreign currency accounts, with the proceeds from sales of any currency and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers, and with foreign exchange earnings. Foreign currency accounts may be freely debited for payments to residents and nonresidents. Enterprises operating in export processing zones (EPZs) are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts abroad or with authorized banks in Kenya and may use the balances on these amounts to pay business-related expenses (including imports, debt service, and dividends). Imports and Import Payments Import and foreign exchange allocation licenses are not required except for a few items that, for health, security, and environmental reasons, are included on a negative list. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 KENYA Customs tariffs are applied as the sole form of pro- tection of domestic industry. As of June 1995, there were six customs tariff nomenclatures, with rates varying from zero to 40 percent; and as of June 1996, the tariff bands were reduced to five, with the rates ranging from zero to 35 percent. Exporters of horti- cultural goods and agro-based products are exempt from import duties and value-added tax on imported inputs. Authorized banks are permitted to provide for- eign exchange against the following documents: a copy of the import declaration, a final invoice, an original clean report of findings from a nominated inspection agency, and a copy of the customs entry. Advance payments for imports may be made through commercial banks without prior approval from the Central Bank of Kenya. All imports with an f.o.b. value of more than $1,000 are subject to preshipment inspection for quality, quantity, and price (previously $500), and require a clean report of findings from July 1996. Authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until they receive the report. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to conduct insurance business in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles All payments and transfers for invisibles transac- tions may be made without restrictions, provided that the application is supported by adequate docu- mentation. Commercial banks may, without refer- ence to the Central Bank, remit pension contributions to nonresidents. Payments of interim dividends to nonresident shareholders are not limited, provided that the application is supported by adequate docu- mentation. Foreign workers may transfer abroad any amount of their earnings upon verification of income and payment of taxes. As of June 17,1996, the expor- tation of domestic banknotes exceeding K Sh 300,000 must be declared to customs at the point of exit for statistical purposes only. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported without licenses. Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require special licenses and may be restricted to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, precious stones, and other essen- tial strategic materials are also subject to special licens- ing. Coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may be exported only if a sales contract is registered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Authority, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles may be kept in foreign currency accounts. Travelers may freely bring in and take out foreign currency notes, except those of countries with restrictions on the exportation of cur- rencies. As of June 19, 1996, the importation of for- eign currency banknotes exceeding $5,000 must be declared at the point of entry to customs officials for statistical purposes only. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers may be made freely. Borrowing by foreign-controlled com- panies on the domestic market is not restricted. Restrictions on investment by foreigners in shares and government securities were removed on Janu- ary 4, 1995. The Capital Market Authority Act was amended to allow participation by foreign compa- nies in portfolio investment of up to 40 percent of share capital of listed companies, and by individual portfolio investors up to 5 percent of shares of listed companies. Offshore borrowing by residents is allowed with- out limit. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) without restrictions. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control January 5. Foreign exchange bureaus were autho- rized to deal in cash and foreign traveler's checks. December 29. The Exchange Control Act was repealed. December 29. The Central Bank of Kenya Act was amended, giving it powers to license and regulate foreign exchange transactions. Resident and Nonresident Accounts February 21. Remittances from blocked accounts were liberalized, except those relating to invest- ments made prior to February 28,1994. Remittances of funds in blocked accounts relating to investments made prior to February 28, 1994, may be made by commercial banks up to $100,000; applications for remittances in excess of $100,000 must be referred to the Central Bank. February 21. Kenyan residents who have foreign exchange earnings (including earnings from services) were allowed to open foreign currency accounts with local banks. Use of funds in these accounts would be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 263 limited in the same manner as use of export retention accounts. Export retention accounts may be con- verted into foreign currency accounts. Foreigners with work permits in Kenya may open foreign cur- rency accounts with Kenyan banks and may credit their local earnings to these accounts; use of funds in the accounts would not be restricted. Payments for Invisibles February 21. Restrictions on remittances by for- eigners of monthly earnings were removed, subject to verification of income and payment of tax. February 21. Persons leaving Kenya were allowed to export up to K Sh 100,000 in banknotes; exporta- tion of amounts exceeding KSh 100,000 must be declared to customs. Exports and Export Proceeds February 21. The export retention ratio was increased to 100 percent of export earnings for all exporters. Capital January 4. Restrictions on investment by foreigners in shares and government securities were removed. The Capital Market Authority Act was amended to allow foreign equity participation of up to 40 percent of share capital of listed companies, while individu- als are allowed to own up to 5 percent of shares of companies listed in the stock exchange. February 21. Borrowing by foreign-controlled com- panies on the domestic market was fully liberalized. February 21. Offshore borrowing by residents was allowed without limit, provided that (1) interest does not exceed LIBOR plus 2 percentage points, and (2) such borrowing is not guaranteed by the Government. Applications for borrowing on other terms must be referred to the Central Bank of Kenya. Changes During 1996 Imports and Import Payments July 1. The minimum value of imports subject to preshipments inspection was raised to an f.o.b. value of $1,000 from $500. Proceeds from Invisibles June 19. Exportation and importation of local and foreign currency notes exceeding $500 (K Sh 300,000) were required to be declared to cus- toms for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The official currency of Kiribati is the Australian Dollar; a small number of Kiribati coins are also in circulation. There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. The Bank of Kiribati (the only commercial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Austra- lian dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Kiribati accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on August 22,1986. There are no payments restrictions for security reasons in effect. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency.2 Purchases and sales of foreign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with the Bank of Kiribati, the only authorized for- eign exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are normally not required. The importation of a limited range of goods is prohibited for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Tariffs Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, Hong Kong dol- lars, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollars, Papua New Guinea kina, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Solomon Islands dollars, Swiss francs, Tongan pa'anga, U.S. dollars, Vanua tu vatu, and Western Samoa tala. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Aus tra l ian dollar. apply to most private imports and range up to 80 percent. Specific duties exist on a small range of goods, including rice, flour, petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. There are no taxes or quantitative restric- tions on exports, but copra can be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment and encourage export- promoting or import-substituting investments. All applications for foreign investment must be made to the Foreign Investment Commission, which approves applications of total foreign capital contri- butions up to $A 250,000. Applications with a higher capital contribution are approved by the Cabinet. Under the Foreign Investment Promotion Act, inves- tors may be granted duty-free imports of capital goods and raw materials. Investments in pioneer industries are eligible for a tax holiday of up to six years. Repatriation of profits and capital is normally unrestricted. Changes During 1995 Exports and Export Proceeds January 31. The 15 percent ad valorem tax on exports of scrap iron and aluminum cans was abolished. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Korea is the Korean Won. Under the market average rate system (introduced on March 2,1990), the Korean won-U.S. dollar rate has been determined on the basis of the weighted aver- age of interbank rates for Korean won-U.S. dollar spot transactions of the previous day. During each business day, the Korean won-U.S. dollar exchange rate in the interbank market is currently allowed to fluctuate within margins of ±2.25 percent against the market average rate of the previous day. The exchange rates of the won against currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined in relation to the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these curren- cies in the international market. On December 31, 1995, the basic rate for the U.S. dollar was W 774.70 per $1. Foreign exchange banks set freely the buying and selling rates they offer to customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies, as well as between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of for- ward contracts in respect of interbank transactions. However, the terms of forward contracts between foreign exchange banks and nonbank customers must be based on a bona fide transaction, with the exception of those subject to specific restrictions. Korea accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on November 1,1988. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and Economy initiates policy with respect to method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, exe- cutes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank of Korea has been dele- gated authority to control payments related to invis- ibles and certain capital transactions. Foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices of for- eign banks in Korea, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in all foreign exchange dealings. All settlements between Korea and other coun- tries may be made in any convertible currency except in won. Residents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in Korean won without restrictions, provided that settlements will be made in foreign currencies; for this purpose, non- residents are allowed to maintain free won accounts (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, below). Resident and Nonresident Accounts All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. Holders of these accounts may change the foreign currency composition of the accounts without restriction. Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in foreign currency may be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts, for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment, or for payments relating to approved transactions. Nonresidents are allowed to hold free won accounts through which they may convert the funds in won into foreign currency and transfer them abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for most imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: automatic approval items and restricted items. All commodi- ties may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are on the restricted list. As of July 1,1996,81 of the 10,859 basic items on the Harmonized System were classified as restricted. Imports of raw materi- als for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classifi- cation. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders, who are required to have exported and /or imported a minimum value of $500,000 in any one of the last two calendar years. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated. Safeguards against excessive imports are 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 KOREA provided under the Foreign Trade Act of 1987. A seven-member Trade Commission established under this act determines whether imports have harmed domestic industries, and, if its finding is affirmative, it recommends the form of import relief to be pro- vided, including quotas and quality standards. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require a simple notification to foreign exchange banks. Payments of less than the equivalent of $5,000 do not require any documentation. Those connected with foreign trade, along with certain other items such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are allowed with simple notification to foreign exchange banks. Korean companies are authorized to obtain foreign exchange to meet the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, pur- chase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 a trip as the basic travel allowance; addi- tional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. The monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 30 days is $10,000. For those staying abroad for over one year, a remittance of $50,000, inclusive of basic travel allowance, is allowed anytime within two months of departure. The basic monthly allow- ance for individual students living abroad under the age of 20 years is $3,000; students with a dependent family are granted an additional allowance of $500 for a spouse and each child. Resident travelers are allowed to pay for travel expenses with credit cards. Korean residents are allowed to remit up to $5,000 a transaction to their parents and children abroad for living expenses and to their relatives abroad for a wedding g ift or funeral donation with- out any underlying documentation. Korean currency notes in excess of W 8 million may not be exported without special permission from the Bank of Korea. When leaving the country, nonresidents may purchase foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of conversion. Foreigners working in Korea may remit their salaries abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Export earnings exceeding $50,000 must be repa- triated to Korea within six months except in special cases. General trading companies licensed under the Foreign Trade Act and enterprises that had exported more than $5 million in the previous year, however, are permitted to retain up to 50 percent of the export value in deposits abroad, up to a maximum of $500 million. Proceeds from Invisibles Korean residents are permitted to hold foreign currency earned from invisible transactions, but once converted into won, a limit applies to reconver- sion. Residents and nonresidents must register domestic and foreign exchange they bring into Korea at customs if the amount exceeds the equiva- lent of $10,000. The importation by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W2 million is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency accounts at the domestic foreign exchange banks, and profits may be converted into won following the completion of each project. Domestic firms engaged in international construc- tion and service businesses may deposit abroad up to 30 percent of the balance of their overseas con- tracts or $3 million, whichever is greater. Capital Overseas investments and loans by residents to nonresidents generally require notification or approval from the relevant authorities. Overseas direct investments of equal to or less than $10 million by Korean residents are subject to valida- tion by foreign exchange banks. Investments exceed- ing $10 million must be reported to the Bank of Korea. Investments exceeding $50 million require approval from the Bank of Korea after the delibera- tion of the Overseas Capital Projects Deliberation Committee. There are no restrictions on foreign borrowing for overseas investment and related operations. A Korean business incorporated abroad is allowed to retain profits for the purpose of expanding its over- seas investment businesses or improving its finan- cial status. Overseas portfolio investments by residents are permitted. Foreign currency loans by resident banks to nonresidents of less than $2 million are permitted freely; loans ranging from $2 million to $20 million require ex post notification to the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and loans exceeding $20 mil- lion require prior notification to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Institutional investors are free to grant foreign currency loans to nonresidents with prior notification to the Bank of Korea. General trading companies and corporations are allowed to grant foreign currency loans to nonresidents with prior notification to the Bank of Korea up to $10 mil- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 267 lion and $300,000, respectively. Loans by residents to nonresidents require prior approval from the Minis- try of Finance and Economy. Foreign exchange banks and institutional investors are allowed to extend won currency loans to nonresidents up to W 100 million a borrower. Subject to prior notifica- tion to the Ministry of Finance and Economy, issu- ance of stocks and bonds abroad by residents is allowed, provided that the use of the proceeds is restricted. Domestic firms are prohibited from issu- ing won-denominated bonds abroad. The foreign exchange allowance for emigrants varies with family size. The head of household may transfer abroad up to $400,000, and other family members may transfer up to $200,000 a person. Additional allowances for emigrants abroad are sub- ject to the approval of the Bank of Korea. The overbought and oversold position of foreign exchange banks is limited to 15 percent and 10 per- cent, respectively, of their capital base; the portion used to hedge capital or operational funds is exempt from this limit. Institutional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset diversification purposes without quantitative ceiling. General corporations and individuals are permitted to hold deposits abroad of up to $3 million and $50,000 a year, respectively. Regulations governing foreign investment in Korea and the contracting of loans to residents by nonresidents are as follows: Foreign Investment Direct investments are allowed in all industries, except those specified on a "negative" list. In Decem- ber 1995, the negative list consisted of 195 industries out of 1,148 industries listed in the Korean standard industrial classification, resulting in a liberalization ratio of 90.7 percent. In the manufacturing sector, the negative list consisted of 25 industries out of 585 industries, resulting in a liberalization ratio of 98.3 percent. In the nonmanufacturing sector, the nega- tive list consisted of 170 industries out of 563 indus- tries, resulting in a liberalization of 82.7 percent. In general, foreign-financed companies are no longer required to set up partnerships with local firms. There are no restrictions on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-financed projects that are accom- panied by advanced technology. Tax privileges have been continuously reduced, and post-investment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies equally. All foreign direct investments, except those in industries on the negative list, are subject to a notifi- cation requirement. A notification is deemed accepted by foreign exchange banks unless other- wise notified. The notification system has gradually been expanded since the beginning of January 1993. Foreign direct investments in equity-linked bonds are allowed, including nonguaranteed convertible bonds issued by small- and medium-sized enter- prises, up to an aggregate of 30 percent, and individ- ual bonds, up to 5 percent of the amount of money listed for each company. The conversion of bonds to equity is limited to 18 percent. The purchase of gov- ernment and public bonds, with interest rates com- parable to international rates, is allowed in the primary market. Remittances abroad of dividends and legitimate profits accrued from stocks or shares owned by a foreign investor are freely permitted. The repatriation of foreign capital is also freely per- mitted. Aggregate ceilings for foreign investment in firms listed on the Korean Stock Market may not exceed 18 percent of the firm's equity, and individ- ual foreign investors may not hold more than 4 percent of a firm's equity. Acquisition of land by foreign-financed compa- nies in the manufacturing sector is only subject to the notification requirement. For companies in non- manufacturing sectors, approval from local authori- ties is generally required, and approval is normally granted within 60 days. Loans Authorization is required for all foreign borrow- ing by firms other than banks. Foreign borrowing by these firms of more than $1 million and with a matu- rity of more than three years is governed by the For- eign Capital Inducement Act. Within a limit, selected Korean enterprises (foreign-invested enterprises with high technology, firms engaged in certain types of "social overhead capital projects," and small- and medium-sized enterprises) are allowed to borrow from abroad for the financing of the imports of capi- tal goods. Firms have access to limited foreign cur- rency loans extended by domestic foreign exchange banks, but this type of lending is only permitted for certain purposes, such as the import of capital goods, and research and development activities. Foreign-financed companies are, in principle, sub- ject to the same regulations governing foreign bor- rowing as other enterprises. However, the borrowing by high-technology foreign-financed manufacturing companies is allowed up to 100 percent of the for- eign-invested capital; also, maturity is limited to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 KOREA three years or less, and limitations are imposed on the use of funds. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Act. The maxi- mum maturity period permitted for deferred pay- ments is 180 days for imports of raw materials for export production. Foreign exchange banks must report to the Minis- try of Finance and Economy all borrowing exceed- ing $10 million with a maturity of over one year. Their oversold foreign exchange position may not exceed 10 percent of the average outstanding amount of foreign exchange bought in the previous month or $20 million, whichever is greater. (For spot transactions only, the corresponding limit is 5 percent or $5 million, whichever is greater.) Subject to certain ceilings, branches of foreign banks may enter into foreign currency swap transactions with the Bank of Korea at a fixed yield of 0.3 percent to secure funds for their domestic currency lending. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, or sell gold in any form in Korea. Residents are allowed to import and export gold other than gold coins, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade (in accordance with the Foreign Trade Act). Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement December 1. The margins within which the exchange rate for Korean won-U.S. dollars in the interbank market would be allowed to fluctuate daily were widened from ±1.5 percent to ±2.25 percent. Resident and Nonresident Accounts February 13. Residents were allowed to hold for- eign exchange without registering with the banks. Imports and Import Payments December 1. The deferred import payments period was extended as follows. For large enterprises: (a) re-exports to the general area, to 180 days from 150 days, and re-exports to the regional area, to 90 days from 60 days, and (b) domestic consumption pur- poses to 90 days from 60 days in cases where the importing area is general, and to 60 days from 30 days in cases where the importing area is regional. For small- and medium-sized enterprises: (a) re- exports to the regional area, to 120 days from 90 days, and (b) domestic consumption purposes, to 120 days from 90 days in cases where the importing area is general, and to 90 days from 60 days in cases where the importing area is regional. Payments for Invisibles February 13. The limit on the amount of domestic banknotes permitted to be exported was raised to W 3 million from W 2 million. February 13. Documentation requirements for pay- ments and transfers abroad of less than $5,000 were eliminated. February 13. (1) Basic travel allowances were raised to $10,000 from $5,000; (2) monthly travel allowances were raised to $10,000 from $3,000; and (3) resettlement expenses were raised to $50,000 from $20,000. Proceeds from Invisibles February 13. The limit on the amount of domestic banknotes permitted to be imported was raised to W 3 million from W 2 million. Capital February 13. The following measures were intro- duced: (1) limits on investments in securities abroad by pension funds and short-term financial compa- nies were abolished. The limit for enterprises was increased to W1 billion from W 300 million, and that for individuals, to W 500 million from W 100 mil- lion; (2) overseas deposits (for the purpose of asset diversification) were allowed up to under $100 mil- lion for institutional investors, and up to $1 million for other firms. For individuals, overseas deposits of up to $30,000 a year were allowed; (3) institutional investors were allowed to extend credit to nonresi- dents up to $10 million, and to others, up to $300,000. The foreign exchange concentration sys- tem was suspended, and residents were allowed to hold foreign currency without registering at banks; (4) the exemption from overseas credits collection requirement was raised to $30,000 from $20,000; (5) the types of firms allowed to hold deposits overseas were expanded from companies whose annual trad- ing exceeds $10 million to those whose trade exceeds $5 million. The limit on the amount of foreign cur- rency that could be held abroad by construction companies was raised to 20 percent of the balance of the construction contract from 10 percent; and (6) the scope of items eligible to be deposited in, or with- drawn from, free won accounts was expanded from trade transactions amounting up to $300,000 for each transaction to all current transactions amount- ing to a maximum of $300,000 for each transaction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 269 May 1. International financial institutions (for example, the Asian Development Bank) were per- mitted to issue won-denominated bonds in the domestic financial market. May 3. Foreign enterprises with high technology, firms engaged in certain types of "social overhead capital projects," and small- and medium-sized enterprises were allowed to borrow abroad for the financing of imports of capital goods. October 10. The restricted areas for Overseas direct investment were reduced to 3 areas from 14 areas; restricted areas are leasing and selling real estate, and construction and operation of golf courses. The application procedure for outward direct foreign investment was simplified significantly. November 15. The negative list of foreign direct investment was shortened, raising the liberalization ratio to 95.1 percent, as from January 1,1996. December 1. The limit on advances large enter- prises are permitted to grant was extended to 10 per- cent from 5 percent of the firm's export volume in the previous year. Changes During 1996 Prescription of Currency June 1. The prescription of currency requirements applicable to foreign currencies were abolished. Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 1. Foreigners residing in Korea longer than five years would be treated as residents for foreign exchange control purposes. Capital January 1. The following measures were intro- duced: (1) regulations governing the foreign exchange positions of banks were modified, whereby the basis of the calculation was related to the volume of transactions or capital, whichever is greater. The ratios with respect to capital were set as follows: (a) overall overbought position, 15 percent of capital; (b) overall oversold position, 10 percent of capital; and (c) spot oversold position, 3 percent of capital or $5 million; (2) overseas deposits for asset diversification purposes were liberalized. For indi- viduals and juridical persons, the ceilings were incrementally raised to $3 million and $50,000 a year, respectively; (3) the ceiling of $10 million on foreign currency loans an institutional investor may extend to nonresidents was abolished, while the ceilings for general trading companies and other firms were set at $10 million and $300,000, respectively; (4) the remaining underlying documentation requirement was abolished for forward exchange and financial futures transactions. However, the principle that a transaction should be based upon real demand (real- demand principle) would continue to be applied; (5) within the scope of nonresidents' real demand, derivative transactions between foreign and domes- tic currencies were allowed; (6) the opening of a free- won account by a nonresident in overseas branches/ subsidiaries of a foreign exchange bank was allowed; (7) the ceiling for current transactions ($300,000) that were allowed to be deposited in and withdrawn from the free-won account was elimi- nated. In addition, won currency funds deposited in the free-won account were allowed to be withdrawn to invest in domestic stocks; (8) resident foreign exchange banks and institutional investors were allowed to extend loans on domestic currency to nonresidents up to W 100 million a borrower; (9) procedures for remittance of funds to be used for operating overseas branches of domestic firms were liberalized; (10) export credits in the form of deferred receipts were liberalized; (11) the exemp- tion from overseas credit collection requirements was raised to $50,000 from $30,000; (12) the limit on the amount of foreign currency that may be held abroad by construction companies was raised to 30 percent of the balance of the construction contract or $3 million, whichever is greater; from 20 percent or $2 million, whichever is greater; and (13) the head of an emigrating family was allowed to transfer up to $400,000 (previously $200,000), and other family members were allowed to transfer up to $200,000 a person (previously $100,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of its fixed but adjustable relationship with a disclosed weighted basket of currencies, the weights reflecting the relative importance of these currencies in Kuwait's trade and financial relations. The Central Bank of Kuwait sets the rate for the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1995, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.29888 and KD 0.29898 respectively, per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The most common arrangement in the official and the com- mercial banking sectors for handling cover against exchange rate risk is through dealings in the interna- tional forward exchange markets. The forward mar- ket for Kuwaiti dinar trading, however, has been suspended since the war with Iraq. Kuwait accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on April 5,1963. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currency of Israel are prohibited. In addition, all imports from and all exports to Israel are prohibited; payments may not be made to or received from Israel for any type of transaction. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Trade and economic agreements are main- tained with China, Cyprus, Egypt, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Morocco, Thailand, and Turkey. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruits and vegetables; licenses, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to regis- tered Kuwaiti merchants and companies. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individ- ual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Imports of industrial equipment, machinery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses valid for one-time use only. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed industrial establishments with the approval of the Industrial Development Commis- sion at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Pri- vate imports of personal objects may be permitted under individual or specific licenses. The importa- tion of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork and foodstuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over five years old, portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered importers. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen, a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any per- mitted source may be paid freely. In concert with the other members of the Coopera- tion Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates), Kuwait adopted a uniform tariff structure on September 1,1983. A minimum tariff of 4 percent was set on imports from non-GCC coun- tries; tariffs on imports from other GCC countries that have a local value-added component of at least 40 percent were abolished. On March 14, 1991, the tariff rate was reduced to zero for a transitional period of six months to encourage imports of goods into Kuwait for postwar reconstruction. In July 1992, import duties were reinstated at the rate of 4 percent, except for capital goods and raw materials. Imports of foodstuffs, as well as some imports of machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import duties, Kuwait has a system of preferential tariffs for industries 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 271 catering to at least 40 percent of the local market allowing them to apply for tariff protection. Tariff rates differ, depending on the domestic value-added content of the products in question. If the domesti- cally produced goods contain at least 20 percent, 30 percent, or 40 percent of domestic value added, protective duties of 15 percent, 20 percent, and 25 percent, respectively, may be applied to compet- ing imports. The degree of protection given by the formula is reduced by 5 percent in the case of con- sumer goods. The maximum duty imposed on prod- ucts that compete with locally manufactured goods is 100 percent. As a general rule, protection is accorded to a firm only if the value added is more than 40 percent. The list of protected items includes paint, building materials, reinforced glass products, commercial refrigeration units, central air-condition- ing units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, synthetic sponges, steel and iron, air filters for automobiles (25 percent), and wooden nails (15 percent). Imports of portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders are prohibited for health or safety reasons. Kuwait has adopted a priority system for govern- ment procurement of goods and services, which pro- vides for preference to be accorded to Kuwaiti- produced goods up to a price margin of 5 percent over goods produced in the other GCC countries, and 10 percent over goods produced outside the GCC. Similarly, goods produced in the other GCC countries are accorded a 5 percent price margin over goods produced outside the GCC. Exports and Export Proceeds A limited control over exports is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and by the Customs and Ports Administration. Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chickpeas, jams, and cement) may be prohib- ited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms and ammunition require licenses. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repa- triated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or foreign banknotes. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on the transfer into Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in resident corporations in Kuwait; foreign partici- pation in new Kuwaiti companies must be less than 49 percent. The participation of GCC nationals in companies established in Kuwait may reach up to 75 percent of the capital, and there are no restrictions on participation in retail trade enterprises by non- Kuwaiti GCC nationals. However, import-licensing requirements remain in effect for non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals. No restrictions are imposed on capital exports by residents or nonresidents. Listings of domestic or foreign stocks on the Kuwait Stock Exchange are subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Besides the approved domestic stocks, trading is permitted in certain stocks of companies of the GCC countries. The listing of Kuwaiti dinar-denominated bonds on the Exchange is also subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Trading in stocks is restricted to Kuwaiti citizens, but foreigners are permitted to buy and sell bonds on the Exchange. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants regis- tered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jew- elry may not be imported or sold unless it is prop- erly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufactured, are subject to an import duty of 4 percent. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Kyrgyz Republic is the Som.1 The U.S. dollar rate is determined on the basis of auctions that are held twice a week at the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic in which licensed com- mercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus partici- pate. The National Bank publishes daily the exchange rate of the som in terms of the U.S. dollar and 38 other currencies. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of cross rates. On December 31,1995, the exchange rate of the som in terms of the U.S. dollar quoted by the National Bank was som 11.15 per $1. In addition to the National Bank, the commercial banks are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Autho- rized banks are allowed to quote their own buying and selling rates. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted without restriction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. The Kyrgyz Republic accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on March 29,1995. Administration of Control The Central Bank Law, approved by Parliament in December 1992, established the National Bank's responsibility for managing the country's gold and foreign exchange reserves. Effective May 15, 1993, the full convertibility of the som was established, with no restrictions on buying, selling, or holding foreign currencies. The National Bank is also respon- sible for issuing foreign exchange licenses to com- mercial banks. Foreign trade is regulated by the Ministry of Trade and Material Resources, which issues import and export licenses when required. Licenses for foreign investment and registration of foreign investors are granted by the State Commission for Foreign Invest- ments and Economic Aid (GOSKOMINVEST), in coordi- nation with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. !The som was issued on May 10,1993, and the conversion from the Russian ruble to the som was completed by May 15,1993. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments, and settlements may be made in any cur- rency, including nonconvertible currencies (e.g., Russian ruble and Kazak Tenge). The Kyrgyz Republic has bilateral trade agreements with the Bal- tic countries, China, Pakistan, Russia, the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Turkey. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents are allowed to maintain foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks and abroad. These accounts must be registered with the National Bank and account information can be transmitted to the tax authorities. Nonresidents may hold accounts in domestic or foreign currencies. There are no spe- cific restrictions on the operations of these accounts, including transfers abroad of balances held in the accounts. Imports and Exports Except for some items that may not be imported for reasons of national interest, imports are permit- ted free of restriction. The prohibited items include armaments, explosive materials, nuclear materials and equipment, poisons, narcotics, works of art, and antiques. In early 1994, the trade system was substantially liberalized. There are no import- and export-licens- ing requirements, with the exception of eight items restricted for reasons of national interest: weapons, explosives, nuclear materials, poisons, drugs, works of arts and antiques, precious rare earth materials, and rare animal and vegetable matter used in phar- maceutical products. Imports from the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are imported duty-free while those coming from all other countries are subject to a flat customs duty of 10 percent. Excises are assessed on a small number of imported items (rates are set in spe- cific terms), including cigarettes, furniture, gasoline, beer, alcoholic beverages, and certain electronic con- sumer goods. There is no requirement to repatriate foreign exchange. A 20 percent export tax is assessed on exports of animal hides and silk cocoons; those taxes are scheduled to be removed in 1996. 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 273 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Gold Residents are allowed to purchase any amount of foreign exchange for travel abroad or for any other payments or transfers in connection with current transactions. There are no restrictions on remit- tances of dividends and profits by foreign inves- tors. The importation and exportation of Russian ruble notes and other foreign banknotes are freely allowed. Capital There are no restrictions on foreign borrowing by residents or enterprises. Legislation on foreign direct investment is in place, which protects the basic rights of foreign investors and provides incentives for new investment. All gold produced in the Kyrgyz Republic is sold at market prices either in the domestic market or abroad, but the National Bank has the right of first refusal in purchasing it at that price. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 29. The Kyrgyz Republic accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Imports and Exports February 28. The number of export taxes was reduced to two from four (20 percent on animal hides and silk cocoons). The remaining two taxes are scheduled to be removed in early 1996. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the Kip (KN). The Thai baht and the U.S. dollar also circulate and are used widely for pay- ments. In mid-September 1995, a floating exchange rate system was introduced by which the exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. On December 31, 1995, the average buying and selling market exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the central bank were KN 718 and KN 720, respec- tively, per $1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, based on the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined rates, provided that the spread between the buying and selling rate remains less than 2 percent. Foreign exchange may be sold by the bureaus for payment for services. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Official transactions are handled by the central bank. The Ministry of Commerce and Tourism grants import and export authorization to state trad- ing companies, mixed companies (joint ventures between domestic enterprises and foreign inves- tors), cooperatives, and other public and private enterprises. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments but, in principle, the central bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. Bilateral trading arrangements are maintained with China, Thailand, a number of countries from the former Soviet Union, and Vietnam. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident accounts. Resident individuals and juridi- cal persons may open foreign exchange accounts Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. with an authorized commercial bank. Foreign exchange accounts may be credited with (1) pro- ceeds from exports of goods and services; (2) trans- fers from abroad that do not result from exports of goods and services; (3) transfers or payments from foreign currency accounts opened with commercial banks within the Lao People's Democratic Republic; and (4) foreign banknotes and coins. These accounts, which are interest bearing, may be debited for con- version into kip for domestic expenditure, or foreign exchange balances may be used for authorized external payments and transfers. Nonresident accounts. Nonresidents may open for- eign currency accounts and convertible kip accounts. Their foreign currency accounts may be credited with (1) remittances from abroad; (2) trans- fers from other nonresident and resident foreign cur- rency accounts in the Lao People's Democratic Republic; and (3) foreign currency brought into the country by the account holder and duly declared upon arrival. Nonresidents are not allowed to accept, for deposit to their accounts, foreign cur- rency proceeds from exports of goods and services of residents without the approval of the central bank. These accounts, which bear interest, may be debited for (1) conversion into kip; (2) transfers into residents' and nonresidents' foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized commercial bank; (3) payments in kip to accounts of residents or nonresidents; and (4) payments and transfers abroad. Nonresidents may open accounts, which may be credited with (1) sales of foreign currencies, and (2) transfers from other convertible kip accounts of holders of the same category. Nonresidents are not permitted to deposit into their convertible kip accounts kip belonging to residents. These accounts may be debited for (1) payments in kip, and (2) con- version into foreign currency at the prevailing buy- ing rate of the commercial bank concerned. All foreign currency deposits are subject to reserve requirements after some level, as kip deposits are. Reserves on kip deposits are to be held in kip. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be made by any registered export- import business. These consist of state trading com- panies, joint-venture trading companies, and private trading companies. These companies are catego- 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 275 rized as enterprises producing mainly for export, for import substitution only, for general multicommod- ity, for export-import, or for export promotion. Imports are classified into the following nine catego- ries: food and food products; textile garments and daily supplies; office supplies, educational instru- ments, sports equipment, and cultural instruments; machines and equipment used in agriculture, ani- mal husbandry, fishing, and the production of hand- icrafts; luxury goods; materials for construction and electrical equipment; vehicles and spare parts; medi- cine, medical equipment, and chemical products for manufacturing; and fuels. Enterprises that are pro- ducing import substitutes are allowed to import products only from the last four categories. Import licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism and provincial govern- ment authorities, are required only for a selected number of goods and are not linked to the ability to export. The goods requiring import licenses are rice, fuel, cement, reinforced wires, motorcycles and motor vehicles, and petroleum products. These goods are also subject to individual enterprise quota restrictions. Imports of gold and silver are subject to authorization from the central bank. Margin deposits are required against letters of credit, and the rates are freely determined by the state-owned Lao Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL) and other commercial banks and do not involve any gov- ernment intervention. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Any registered export or import business is per- mitted to engage in export activities. Export licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism and provincial government authorities, are required only for coffee, timber, wood products, rat- tan, and livestock. These goods are also subject to ind iv idual enterprise quota restrictions; at present, restrictive quotas are applied only to timber. The public sector no longer has the monopoly on the exportation of timber, which is now open to the pri- vate sector. The exportation of timber was banned from April 1991 to June 1992. All goods may now be freely exported by the private sector. Export ship- ments of gold and silver require authorization from the central bank. Export earnings are not subject to the surrender requirement, and they may be kept in foreign exchange deposits with a commercial bank (to pay for authorized imports of goods and services, and to make cash withdrawals in kip). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as foreign exchange earnings accruing from merchandise exports. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents are not per- mitted. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1988 and March 1994, inward foreign capital transfers, profit remittances, and the repatriation of foreign investment capital are not restricted. Gold Residents may buy and sell gold within the coun- try but may not take it abroad for commercial pur- poses unless authorized by the central bank. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement August 31. A transitional exchange system where the leading commercial bank set an exchange rate close to the parallel market rate was introduced. September 31. A floating exchange rate system was adopted. The "official exchange rate" was abolished, thereby eliminating all exchange restrictions and the multiple currency practice. Subsequently, the rate used for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange by the Bank of Lao and for tax accounting purposes was based on the average of the rates set by com- mercial banks. The previous guidelines on the allo- cation of foreign exchange were abolished. Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 30. Reserve requirements (including those applying to foreign currency deposits) were increased to 12 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Latvia is the Lats.1 The Bank of Latvia's policy is to ensure orderly conditions in the exchange market and to limit short-term fluctua- tions in the exchange rate of the lats against convert- ible currencies. The Bank of Latvia reviews domestic and international exchange markets on a daily basis and announces buying and selling rates for the lats against a basket of currencies; since Feb- ruary 1994, the lats has maintained a fixed exchange rate vis-a-vis the SDR. The Bank of Latvia stands ready to transact with commercial banks at these rates. The exchange rates for the lats against con- vertible currencies other than the U.S. dollar are quoted on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. A margin of 2 percent is applied in the quotations of the buying and selling rates for the above currencies. Banks and other authorized exchange dealers also trade in these cur- rencies, and their buying and selling rates may devi- ate from time to time from the quoted rates. The Bank of Latvia also quotes daily the midpoint of the buying and selling rates of the lats against convert- ible currencies. These rates are used for various accounting purposes, including customs duties, tax- ation, and other valuations; they are valid through the next day and are communicated to all commer- cial banks. On December 31, 1995, the official exchange rate of the lats was LVL 0.537 per $1. The use of convertible currencies for domestic settle- ments is also permitted. The Bank of Latvia also quotes weekly the accounting rates of the lats for the currencies of Rus- sia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union that participate in the system of correspon- dent accounts. Latvia accepted the obligation of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 10, 1994. 1 Effective Ju ly 20,1992, the Latvian ruble replaced the Russian ruble as legal tender in La tv ia, and in March 1993, the lats began to be issued as permanent currency at the conversion rate of Latvian ruble 200 per LVL 1. At this conversion rate, the ex- change ra te of the lats for the U.S. dollar was LVL 1 per $1.5. The La tv ian lats became the sole legal tender effective October 18, 1993. 276 Administration of Control Government decisions adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers and approved by Parliament prevail in foreign exchange and trade matters, but the author- ity to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to the Bank of Latvia. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks and enterprises licensed by the Bank of Latvia. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union can be made through any means, including a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which the Bank of Latvia maintains agree- ments on mutual settlement of accounts are effected in accordance with the terms of these agreements.2 At the end of 1995, Latvia also maintained trade and economic cooperation agreements providing for most-favored-nation (MFN) status with a num- ber of countries.3 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural persons and enterprises are allowed to hold foreign currencies in cash or in domestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Nonresident natural persons are permitted to hold bank accounts in Latvia denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Imports and Exports There are virtually no licensing requirements for imports except on imports of sugar, cereals, tobacco and tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, and nonferrous and ferrous metals. For national health and safety reasons, licenses are also required for 2 At the end of 1995, Latvia ma in ta ined bilateral payments agreements with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazak- stan, the Kyrgyz Republic, L i thuan ia, Moldova, Russia, Turk- menistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. 3 Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Canada, Cuba, the European Union, Hungary, Iceland, India, Moldova, Poland, Russia, Turk- menistan, Ukraine, United States, and Uzbekistan. Similar agree- ments were signed in 1992 w i th the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. Latvia had free trade agreements w i th the other Baltic countries, the European Union, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 277 pyrotechnic products, arms and ammunition, com- bat vehicles, and prepared explosives. A new tariff law became effective on December 1, 1994. It replaced most specific tariffs with ad valo- rem rates and established basic import tariff rates of 20 percent (15 percent for countries with MFN sta- tus). Excluding agricultural tariffs, in 1995, 39 per- cent of Latvia's imports were assessed with MFN duties of 15 percent or less. An additional 57 percent of Latvia's imports were assessed with lower duties under the free trade agreements, and only 4 percent of Latvia's imports were assessed basic rate tariffs of 20 percent or less. An ad valorem tariff rate of 55 percent applies to six agricultural commodities. Most raw materials and spare parts are assessed an import duty of 1 percent (0.5 percent when originat- ing in countries with which MFN relations are maintained). A number of final goods are also exempt from import tariffs, and certain goods such as fruit, nuts, coffee, and tea are subject to reduced tar iffs of 1 percent (0.5 percent when originating in countries with which MFN relations are main- tained). Specific tariff rates are levied on seeds, ani- mal feed, certain grains, flour, bread, sugar, certain confectionery products including chocolate, alco- hol, cigarettes, and cars. The Free Trade Agreement between Latvia and the EU covers substantially all goods traded with the EU. According to this agree- ment, free trade areas will be gradually established within a maximum of four years starting from Janu- ary 1,1995. Upon entering the territory of Latvia, natural per- sons are entitled to deliver across the border of the Republic of Latvia without any customs payments all kinds of goods and articles intended for pur- poses other than commerce, whose importation is not forbidden or limited by law, and whose customs value does not exceed LVL300. A total customs value of foodstuffs not exceeding LVL15 per person is exempted from taxes. Persons over 18 are exempt from taxes on alco- holic drinks up to 1 liter or one measured unit in original packing not exceeding 3 liters, and on a maximum of either 200 cigarettes, 20 cigars, or 200 grams of tobacco. There are no export quotas. Export duties are lev- ied on waste and scrap metals, certain categories of round logs, certain mineral products, works of art, antiques, and certain books. Export proceeds are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control or restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control regulations gov- erning capital transactions. Gold There are no regulations governing international trade in gold. A license is required to deal in gold in the domestic market. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. However, the authorities may announce buying or selling rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the foreign exchange market. On December 30, 1995, the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 1,596 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any currency except in Israeli new sheqalim. They are prohibited from engaging in forward transactions against the Leba- nese pound unless such transactions are related to foreign trade. Lebanon accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 1, 1993. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange pay- ments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammu- nition, narcotics, and similar products) are either prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports prohib- ited year-round include citrus fruits, apples, and liq- uid milk; imports prohibited during a specified period of the year include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, apricots, potatoes, onions, cucumbers, tomatoes, garlic, Jew's mallow, okra, muskmelons, pear peaches, green almonds, grapes, green peppers, pomegranates, and green plums. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, insulated electric and telephone wires, and copper cables. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely without a license. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers possess a valid import license, if required, before issuing let- ters of credit. Importers must place with their banks a prior deposit in the same currency as that in which letters of credit are opened in an amount equivalent to 15 percent of the value of import letters of credit; the banks are not required to deposit such amounts with the Bank of Lebanon. The tariff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature. Ad valorem duty rates on most prod- ucts range from zero to 20 percent and are applied on a most-favored-nation basis, except for certain imports from Arab countries, which are accorded a preferential rate. The tax on motor vehicles is levied at the following rates: 20 percent of the first LL 25 million and 35 percent on the remaining value. The following rates apply to alcoholic beverages: beer, 35 percent of the value; champagne, wine, and ver- mouths, 80 percent of the value; and arak, 50 percent of the value. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and ammu- nition, narcotics, and similar products) to any desti- nation and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of wheat and wheat derivatives to any coun- try and all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Foreign exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Foreign exchange may be obtained or sold in the free market. Banks are prohibited from receiv- ing deposits, extending credits or opening accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident banks and financial institutions. However, this restriction does not apply to guarantees issued by nonresident banks and financial institutions as collateral to loans in Lebanese pounds provided that such loans are for 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 279 commercial or investment activities in Lebanon. Banks are authorized to maintain a trading position in foreign currency amounting to up to 5 percent (short or long) of the core capital of banks and a fixed position in foreign currency (long) amounting to 60 percent of core capital in Lebanese pounds. Under a "free zone" banking facility, commercial banks are exempt from fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits by nonresidents. Income from all accounts with banks has been exempt from the income tax. Under the National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compensation is paid on losses that are more than 10 percent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form does not require a license, but must be officially recorded. The importation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be cov- ered by a certificate, issued by the Office for the Pro- tection of the Consumer, that indicates the gold content and weight. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Lesotho is the Loti (plural Maloti), which is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 per R 1. Under the Common Monetary Area (CMA) Agreement, the rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were M 3.6470 and M 3.6480, respectively, per $1. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions through their correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover is not, however, common in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The financial rand system of South Africa was abolished in March 1995 and was accompanied by a similar action by Lesotho. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the CMA, which is an exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement among Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland became effective on April 1, 1986, and was amended in 1989. Namibia, which was an indirect party to the agreement by virtue of its relationship with South Africa, officially became a party following its independence in March 1990. Payments within the CMA are unrestricted and unre- corded except for statistical and customs purposes. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those applied by South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho controls external cur- rency transactions and delegates to commercial banks the authority to approve certain types of cur- rent payments up to established limits. Permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institutions accepting deposits and insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies that can be used in particular transactions. Lesotho is a member of the Southern African Cus- toms Union (SACU) with Botswana, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. All imports, except certain food imports originating in any country of the SACU, are unrestricted; those from countries out- side the SACU are usually licensed in conformity with the import regulations of the SACU; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the SACU. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for reve- nue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is restricted to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to Lesotho and surren- dered within six months of the date of the export transaction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authorized dealers are permitted to approve some types of current payments up to established limits. The basic annual exchange allow- ance for tourist travel to neighboring countries out- side the CMA area —Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—is M 6,000 an adult and M 3,000 a child; the corresponding annual allowance for tour- ist travel to other countries outside the CMA region is M 25,000 and M 12,500, respectively. For business travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region, the basic annual allowance is M 12,000 a per- son at rates not exceeding M 900 a day; the corre- sponding limits for business travel to other countries are M 38,000 and M 2,000, respectively. Larger allowances may be obtained for travel for business and medical treatment. The education allowance is M 4,000 a student a month or M 8,000 a month for a student accompa- nied by a spouse who is not studying. Payments of professional fees of up to a maximum of M 10,000 are allowed, and M 50,000 is allowed for charges related to repairs or adjustments to goods tempo- 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 281 rarily exported. Lesotho residents may also effect payment of fees owed for technical services brought into Lesotho within an overall limit of M 50,000. Lesotho residents may enter into contracts with vis- iting artists, entertainers, and sportspersons, pro- vided the commitment does not exceed M 75,000. Guarantees by Lesotho residents up to a limit of M 25,000 in respect of overdraft facilities for resi- dents of Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe for domestic, farming, and business purposes may also be approved. Emigrant allowances may be transferred up to M 200,000 a family or up to M 100,000 a person. The maximum amount of earn- ings on blocked assets that emigrants are allowed to transfer through normal banking channels is M 300,000 a year. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency, register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident without prior approval. Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporary res- ident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided to manufacturers approved by the Pio- neer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act of 1969. Funds in blocked maloti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments approved by the Central Bank. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maximum of M 300,000 a family unit. The transfer by nonresi- dents of dividends and profits from investments held in Lesotho is not restricted, provided these funds were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. An emigrant family or an individual may export one automobile only, with a maximum value of M 75,000, provided that the auto- mobile was purchased at least one year before emigration. The limit on settling-in allowances that immi- grants are permitted to transfer is M 500,000 for a family and M 250,000 for a single person, of which M 20,000 may be in cash; the remainder may be used to acquire residential properties and a motor vehicle. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coins that are legal tender. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 13. The financial rand system was abolished in South Africa and Lesotho. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Lib$l per US$1. There is no official intervention currency. The cur- rency of the United States is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian currency. There are two Liberian dollar notes —Liberty notes intro- duced in 1992 and J.J. Roberts notes issued from 1988 to 1992 —which continue to circulate in parts of the territory. U.S. dollar notes, which previously formed the major portion of the currency in circula- tion, have almost totally disappeared. Full convert- ibility between the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar at par does not exist. The U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in large parallel market trans- actions, and commercial banks charge abnormally high commissions for their sales of offshore funds. Foreign exchange dealers other than banks are per- mitted to buy and sell currencies other than the U.S. dollar at market-determined exchange rates. The official exchange rate is limited to the settlement of tax obligations and data reporting, while the parallel exchange rate (about Lib$50 per US$1 for the Liberty notes in 1995, with J.J. Roberts notes trading at a pre- mium over the Liberty notes) applies to most trans- actions, including government spending. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Export- and import-licensing regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Some exporters must pay withholding taxes and corporate income taxes in U.S. dollars. Hotels are required to receive payments from foreign guests in foreign exchange. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. Licensing require- ments are liberally enforced. These items include safety matches, electrode welding rods, and lique- fied petroleum gas. Imports of arms, ammunition, and explosives require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics, other than for medicinal purposes) are prohibited. The Liberian National Petroleum Company (LNPC) no longer has the exclusive right to import petro- leum products; all eligible importers that obtain an import declaration form from the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry may import them. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private distributors by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. The nominal tariff rate on imports is about 31 percent on average. Preshipment inspection of imports is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quan- tity, and the value of all goods to be shipped to Liberia. Both final and intermediate goods are sub- ject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than US$3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are at present required for ele- phant tusks and ivory; wild animals; cement; agri- cultural products other than rubber, flour, and sugar; and certain other items, such as arms, ammunition, and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely and serve mainly to enforce the 25 percent surrender of export proceeds and taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and ori- gin. Wood products for exportation must have a local processing content of at least 10 percent. Exporters are required to surrender 25 percent of export proceeds to the National Bank of Liberia through the commercial banks. The Government and the National Bank receive priority for the pur- chase of such foreign exchange. The portion of for- eign exchange surrendered that is not purchased by the public sector is made available to commercial banks at par. An export tax at the rate of 15 percent a troy ounce is levied on diamonds. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 283 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no governmental limitations on pay- ments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Under the Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted a five-year 90 percent duty exemption on imports of raw mate- rials and machinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 percent exemption on distrib- utable profits, and a protective tariff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for two additional years in certain circum- stances. Most mining, logging, and rubber enter- prises, however, operate under special redundant agreements that provide for tax concessions for a period ranging up to 70 years. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form are sub- ject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (Libya) is the Libyan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1 per SDR 2.80. Margins not exceeding 47 percent are allowed around this fixed relationship, and the dinar has been depre- ciated to the maximum extent permitted within those margins to LD 1 per SDR 1.905. Buying and selling rates of the Libyan dinar in terms of 16 currencies1 are based on their exchange rates against the SDR, as communicated by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, on December 31,1995 was LD 0.353 per$l. Commercial banks may not deal among them- selves in foreign currencies but only through their foreign correspondents. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. Since 1985, fees have been levied on outward foreign exchange transfers for the purpose of financing the Great Man-Made River Project. These fees have resulted in a deviation of more than 2 percent between the official exchange rate and the effective rate applied to these transfers. There are no other taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its pow- ers to authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the General People's Congress and executed by the Secretariat of Plan- ning, the Economy, and Trade. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Settle- ments with other countries are made in convertible currencies. A bilateral trade and payments agree- ment is maintained with Malta; outstanding bal- ances are settled in convertible currencies annually. Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. Nonresidents (as defined by the Central Bank) who are gainfully employed in the country are per- mitted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain nonresident accounts in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Such nonresidents may credit their legitimate earnings to their nonresi- dent accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits of such accounts, see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank after submission of the prescribed evi- dence, but, in general, remittances are permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in Libya, up to LD 500 a year, to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his or her country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 each calendar year); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qualify, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in full to the owner in his or her country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with certain excep- tions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; balances credited before March 31, 1966, have been released. With the authorization of the Central Bank, individual resi- dents are allowed to keep foreign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to transfer balances abroad without restriction. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports undertaken by state-owned enterprises do not require licenses if they are authorized within the annual commodity budget. Importers are required to deal directly with producers abroad and not 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 285 through intermediaries. However, imports not included in the annual commodity budget are sub- ject to licensing. Resident firms undertaking devel- opment projects may import needed items that are not included in the annual commodity budget and not available locally, and foreign exchange to pay for these imports is provided by the Government; simi- lar imports by nonresidents, however, must be financed with foreign exchange resources from abroad. There is a prohibited import list, consisting mainly of consumer and luxury goods.2 Only government agencies may act as commercial agents, including import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company controlled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation of gold and precious metals. Under Decision No. 248 of January 1989, import trade by private companies and partnerships has been permitted. With the exception of strategic goods, (i.e., nine essential food items, medicine, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold), retained by public corporations, all other goods may be imported by either public or private entities within the provisions of the annual commodity budget. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits require central bank approval. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks following central bank approval, provided that a firm contract exists and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Planning, the Economy, and Trade and, if imports are to be financed under letters of credit, that a marine insurance policy from a local insurance com- pany is submitted before the letter of credit is estab- lished. However, an authorized bank may not open a letter of credit without an advance import deposit equal to at least 20 percent of the value of the import. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clear- ance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents. Imports are subject to customs duties and customs surcharges, the latter consisting of 10 percent of the applicable customs duty. All products originating in Arab countries are exempted from customs duties, provided that their domestic value added is at least 40 percent. Private individuals are allowed to import 2These include mineral water, f ru it juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegetables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, oriental rugs, soaps, en- velopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxu ry cars, and fu rs. goods on the commodity budget list up to a maxi- mum value of LD 3,000 a year from Arab countries. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Nonresidents employed by the state, by state- owned enterprises, and by foreign companies may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer, or up to 75 percent of their net sala- ries if their contracts specify that, in accordance with applicable Libyan laws and regulations, the employer will provide both lodging and board free of charge at worksites in remote areas. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institu- tions are exempt from these regulations. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and technicians within the lim- its mentioned. In 1992, the granting of travel allowances was sus- pended. Previously, residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel, could take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for chil- dren between the ages of 10 and 18 years) in a calen- dar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange could be obtained from any authorized bank in Libya. Additional amounts were granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia were enti- tled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and declared to customs. Travelers leaving Libya may not take out Libyan currency. All other payments for invisibles, as well as pay- ments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. Export pro- ceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmon- etary gold (other than for processing abroad), scrap metals, eggs, chicken, fish, olive oil, paint, tires, steel, and tractors are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsi- dized commodities, are also prohibited. Exports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 286 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA domestically produced vegetable oils are permitted. All exports to Israel are prohibited. The Export Promotion Council helps exporters to enter foreign markets by providing information on demand con- ditions abroad and on potential exports. Also, exporters are allowed to retain up to 40 percent of foreign exchange earnings in a special account that may be used to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export pro- duction. In general, exporters do not need export licenses but must register with the Council and sup- ply, on a regular basis, the relevant documentation on their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surren- dered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank, an exchange office, or a hotel licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring in trav- eler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts, which they must declare to customs. For- eign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visit- ing tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a minimum local expenditure of $50 for each day spent in the country. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the eco- nomic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 percent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Salaries of for- eign staff employed on such projects may be trans- ferred (as described in the section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Central Bank approval is required and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970, is permitted on a minority basis but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the lat- est technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance compa- nies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Only Libyans may own real estate in Libya. Non- resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents must obtain the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permission from the Com- mittee of the People's Bureau for Foreign Affairs and International Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The investment of national capital abroad is gov- erned by Law No. 25 of April 20,1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and pre- cious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic gold- smiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold must be processed before it is sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15 percent. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lithuania is the Litas (plural Litai). The external value of the litas has been pegged to the U.S. dollar at Lit 4 per $1 since April 1, 1994, when the currency board arrangement was established. Authorized banks quote exchange rates for other convertible currencies on the basis of their cross rate relationships for the currencies concerned on international markets. Authorized banks also quote buying and selling rates for the Russian ruble at varying rates. The Bank of Lithuania also calcu- lates an accounting rate, which is used to value bal- ance sheet items. Accounting rates for convertible currencies and for the currencies of the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and other countries of the former Soviet Union are calculated daily.1 There are no limits on the net open positions of authorized banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Lithuania accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 3, 1994. Administration of Control Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a bank- ing law delegating to the Bank of Lithuania the authority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks licensed by the Bank of Lithuania. To date, 20 banks have been authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to transact among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresidents of Lithuania, and they are divided into four categories, depending on the types of transactions they are permitted to con- duct. The simplest type of license limits the opera- tions to buying and selling foreign exchange (cash and traveler's checks). At present, eight banks have ]The accounting rates for the convertible currencies are identi- cal to the middle rates on Tuesdays and at the end of each month, whereas the accounting rates for the currencies of the Baltic states, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are calculated by the Bank of L i thuan ia by using the cross rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the respective central banks. been granted a general license that allows them to offer a full range of banking services (including issu- ing letters of credit) in foreign exchange operations, and they are permitted to open correspondent accounts with banks abroad. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments, and settlements may be made in any convert- ible currency.2 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may open foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks, and these accounts may be credited and debited without restriction. Nonresident individuals and representa- tive offices of foreign enterprises and diplomatic missions may open foreign exchange accounts at the authorized banks, and these accounts may be cred- ited and debited without restriction. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and national security reasons. Imports subject to bilateral trade agreements are allocated by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. A10 percent tariff rate is applied to most imports. Higher tariff rates are levied only on specific products (such as live animals, agricul- tural products, alcohol and tobacco, and a few man- ufacturing goods), some exceeding 30 percent. Average import tar iffs are presently very low by international standards. The majority of agricultural products (and other items such as alcohol) are sub- ject to zero tariff rates but tar iffs on certain such items remain quite high, and the tariff structure con- tinues to be highly dispersed. A tax at the uniform rate of 0.01 percent is imposed on imports (and exports) for the sole pur- pose of collecting statistical information on trade. Correspondent accounts exist between the Bank of Lithuania and the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. These accounts need not be used for payments originating a f ter October 1992. Ruble-denomi- nated correspondent accounts maintained with the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union have been closed and are in the process of being settled. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 LITHUANIA There is a three-tier import tariff structure with different rates for each of the following country cate- gories: (1) "conventional" rates apply to countries granted most-favored-nation (MFN) status by Lithuania, and to neighboring countries if trade with them is viewed as a foreign policy priority;3 (2) "preferential" rates apply to countries with which Lithuania has a foreign trade agreement (FTA), as specified in the relevant FTA;4 (3) "autonomous" rates apply to all other countries. On February 28, 1995, the Government specified the above three rates for many products; the autonomous rates are gener- ally 5 to 10 percentage points higher than the con- ventional rates. Also, on that date, the Government subjected specific items to ad valorem tariffs; in the case of alcohol, sugar, tobacco, and used cars, these tariffs are mixed with specific duties. While the ad valorem equivalents of these specific duties are modest and are designed to limit underinvoicing, the Government intends to move away from specific tariffs over time, while strengthening customs valu- ation procedures. Virtually all quantitative import restrictions have been replaced with tariffs, but imports of certain agricultural goods and alcoholic beverages are sub- ject to reduced duty rates up to a certain level.5 Other quantitative import restrictions are used to control trade in strategic goods and technology; to protect Lithuania's cultural heritage; and to prevent illegal trade in copper and other nonferrous metals, alloys, and scrap. Finally, alcoholic beverages and tobacco can be imported only by traders registered with the Government, although import quantities are unrestricted. Lithuania does not presently levy antidumping or countervailing duties. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles may be made without restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Quantitative export restrictions have been almost eliminated. Proceeds from exports are not required to be repatriated to Lithuania. Exports are not sub- 3The conventional rate applies to imports from Australia, Be- larus, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Hun- gary, Iceland, India, Kazakstan, Korea, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkey, Ukraine, and the United States. Lithuania presently has foreign trade agreements with Esto- nia, the EU, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland. 5These include unbottled alcoholic beverages and raw materi- als for their production, raw sugar and half-finished products for sugar factories, technical ethyl alcohol, purebred birds' eggs for incubation, live purebred animals, live purebred poultry, cereals and combined fodder, and nonstandard clear glass bottles. ject to licensing requirements. Export duties are lev- ied on certain raw materials and selected products. Export tariffs were eliminated on November 1, 1994. At the same time, however, the Government extended a "temporary prohibition" on exports of six product groups until May 1, 1995, which was extended to May 1,1996.6 This prohibition serves to protect a small number of domestic processors of primary products. The export bans are not binding for countries that have signed an FTA with Lithua- nia. In the case of wood products, banned exports account for only 20 percent of total exports, because wood is mostly exported to Finland, Switzerland, and Germany, all of whom have FTAs with Lithua- nia. Regulations governing trade in strategic goods and technology, cultural objects, nonferrous scrap, and waste apply to exports as well as imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to any control or restriction. Capital Authorized banks may borrow abroad or extend loans in foreign currencies to residents and nonresi- dents without restriction. Resident firms may bor- row foreign exchange from authorized banks or borrow directly from banks abroad with the approval of the Bank of Lithuania. Foreign direct investment is regulated by the Law of Foreign Investments promulgated in December 1990 and amended in February and June 1992. The law permits the State to sell shares to nonresidents, guarantees nondiscriminatory national treatment to foreign investors, and protects investments against nationalization and expropriation. The purchase of state-owned enterprises is subject to authorization from the Central Privatization Committee. One of the main conditions in this process is that the com- pany must remain involved in the same type of busi- ness for at least one year under the new ownership. While firms with 100 percent foreign capital owner- ship are allowed to operate in Lithuania, the Gov- ernment reserves the right to establish limits on foreign investment in Lithuanian enterprises. For- eign investors are prohibited from operating in the defense industry, public utilities, and energy explo- 6The following products are subject to temporary export prohi- bitions: red clover seeds, feathers and down used for stuffing, raw hides and skins, unprocessed pine and birch timber with thin end diameter not less than 20 cm., unprocessed oak and ash tim- ber, and glands and other organs used for pharmaceutical prod- ucts and organotherapeutical uses without quotas issued by the Ministry of Health Care. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA 289 ration. In joint ventures in the transportation and communication sectors, the domestic partner is required to hold the majority of the shares. Wholly owned ventures in the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industries are prohibited. Enterprises with foreign investment must be insured by Lithuanian insur- ance companies, even if the company retains other insurance services outside Lithuania. The ownership of land by nonresidents in Lithua- nia is prohibited, but lease contracts with limits to 2 hectares of land in Vilnius and 10 hectares outside the capital are permitted for up to 99 years and may be renewed thereafter. The Law of Foreign Investments also guarantees the free repatriation of all after-tax profits as well as the invested capital, with no limitation on timing or amount. It also provides for important tax incen- tives. If the foreign investment was made before the end of 1993, the profit tax is reduced by 70 percent (to within a range of 8.7 percent to 29 percent) for five years. For another three years, the profit tax is reduced by 50 percent. For investments made between January 1994 and December 1995, profits will be taxed at a rate reduced by 50 percent for six years. For joint ventures, these reductions are pro- portional to the foreign capital invested. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, or sell gold in any form in Lithuania. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments January 18. Russia was granted most-favored- nation status. Exports and Export Proceeds May 1. A temporary prohibition on exports of five product groups, in place since November 1994, was extended until May 1, 1996. This prohibition serves to protect a small number of domestic processors of primary products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA1 (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the Denar, the external value of which is determined freely in the exchange market. Buying and selling rates for transactions between authorized banks and enterprises have to be reported to the National Bank of Macedonia, which calculates an average daily rate. Based on this rate and cross rates on the international market, the National Bank of Macedonia publishes rates for 22 currencies. On December 31,1995, the midpoint exchange rate for the U.S. dollar published by the National Bank of Mace- donia was MKD 37.9796 per $1. The National Bank of Macedonia deals at the published midpoint rates plus or minus a margin of 0.3 percent. At the end of each week, the average of the daily published rates is estab- lished for customs valuation purposes for the follow- ing week. There is no tax on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange, and banks are free to set commis- sions for their services. Forward foreign exchange contracts for trade transactions are permitted. The exchange market operates at two levels— wholesale and retail. The wholesale level includes enterprises, commercial banks, and the National Bank of Macedonia, all of which may buy and sell foreign exchange in this market. The Government also participates in this market through the National Bank of Macedonia, which maintains the value of the denar against the deutsche mark at a level that meets their balance of payments objectives. The retail level of the foreign exchange market consists of foreign exchange bureaus, which are owned and operated by banks, enterprises, or natural persons. Foreign exchange bureaus may hold overnight foreign exchange positions equivalent to 100 percent of the preceding day's foreign exchange purchases. Natural persons may purchase foreign currency from these bureaus without limit, subject to availability. Administration of Control The Parliament has the authority to legislate laws governing foreign exchange and trade transactions. Certain changes in the trade regime may be made through government regulations. 'The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia succeeded to the membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugosla- via in the IMF on December 14,1992. According to the Foreign Exchange Act and the National Bank of Macedonia Act, the National Bank of Macedonia is authorized to control foreign exchange operations of banks and other financial institutions. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to control foreign exchange and trade operations and the credit relations of enterprises abroad, as well as other forms of business activities abroad, encom- passing all enterprises that operate internationally. Certain foreign exchange control activities have been delegated to the participants in the foreign exchange market and the customs office. The Minis- try of Foreign Relations administers the Foreign Trade Act and the Foreign Investments Act. Medium- and long-term loans must be registered with the National Bank of Macedonia as stipulated by the Foreign Credit Relations Act. This obligation does not apply to short-term loans, which are per- mitted without restriction, except those related to imports, with a maturity exceeding six months. Short-term loans related to commercial banks' credit lines with a maturity exceeding 90 days should also be registered. Prescription of Currency Residents may receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks; these accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad or for conversion into denars. Resident natural persons may open foreign exchange accounts. Foreign exchange balances pre- dating September 1, 1990 are freely disposable, that is, they can be withdrawn in foreign currency or con- verted into denars. Withdrawals in foreign currency may be used to make payments abroad on presenta- tion of appropriate documentation for medical treat- ment (including purchases of medicine), education, and airfares (airfares have been temporarily restricted for budgetary reasons). Resident natural persons may not maintain foreign exchange accounts abroad or hold other financial assets abroad. In specific cases (such as enterprises with foreign operations), enterprises may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the approval of the National Bank of Macedonia. 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 291 Imports and Import Payments Payments for authorized imports are not restricted. Imports and transit trade from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were prohibited, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 757, 787, and 820. Since November 22, 1995, the UN Security Council has suspended indefinitely these resolutions according to Resolu- tion No. 1022. Goods in almost 98 percent of import categories are importable without quota restrictions. Goods subject to quota restrictions include certain chemical and steel products; buses; and, for three months of the year, certain seasonal food products. Customs duties range from zero to 25 percent: imports of crude oil and essential items are subject to low rates (1 percent on crude oil); raw materials and equipment, to 5 percent; oil derivatives to 10 per- cent; and consumer products to rates ranging from 12 percent to 25 percent. Imports of certain goods, such as weapons and medicine, are subject to licensing requirements for security or public health reasons. Two sets of import taxes of 7.5 percent each apply to most imports. There is also a 1 percent documentation fee. In 1995, the effective average rate of duty was about 10.1 percent. Importers are allowed to purchase foreign exchange to pay letters of credit on imports 180 days in advance of the maturity date. On November 30,1995, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia began to apply the same customs regime toward the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as it imposes on third party countries. Payments for Invisibles Resident juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange freely to make payments for invisibles on presentation of documentation showing the nature of the services bought abroad or transfers made, such as invoices and health declarations. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to and transit trade through the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were prohibited under UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 713, 757, 787, and 820, until No. 1022 suspended indefinitely these res- olutions on November 22, 1995. The exportation of sugar, flour, wheat, and soya remains temporarily restricted to protect domestic supply. The exporta- tion of a small number of items (including arms, drugs, and historic artifacts) is banned for security, public health, or cultural reasons. All export proceeds from transactions that are not based on commodity credits have to be transferred by the exporters into the country within 90 days from the day the export was made. Exporters must sell their proceeds on the foreign exchange market within four business days of transferring them into the country, use the proceeds for payments abroad, or deposit them in banks for a period of up to 90 days, after which they must sell the proceeds in the foreign exchange market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same reg- ulations as those applicable to merchandise exports. Capital Resident natural persons are not allowed to engage in borrowing or lending operations with nonresidents. Contracting of commercial credits by juridical persons is free of restrictions. Outward direct investment requires approval from and regis- tration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Banks may take foreign exchange positions subject to indi- vidual limits. Foreign direct investment in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is allowed except in a few sectors (such as arms production). Nonresidents are allowed to invest in existing firms, establish their own firms, or establish joint ventures. Imports of raw materials, spare parts, and equipment not pro- duced domestically by joint-venture firms are exempt from customs duties if the foreign share in the investment is at least 20 percent. Foreign inves- tors are exempt from the company income tax dur- ing the first three years of operation. All foreign investment registered with the Ministry of Foreign Relations is protected from nationalization. There are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of profits and dividends, provided that all financial obliga- tions within the country have been met. There are no regulations governing inward portfolio investment. Outward portfolio investment by resident natural and juridical persons is not permitted. Gold The importation and exportation of gold requires approval of the National Bank of Macedonia. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control November 22. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were suspended indefinitely in accordance with UN Reso- lution No. 1022. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc (FMG), the external value of which is deter- mined freely in the official interbank market. The French franc is the only currency quoted on this market, and the exchange rates of other countries are determined on the basis of cross-rate relationships of the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange mar- ket. Exporters' surrender requirement has been transferred from the Central Bank of Madagascar to the market; thus, the Central Bank is a normal dealer, participating in the market on the same basis as the five commercial banks. The five banks are per- mitted to maintain an exchange position up to the limits set up by the prudential regulation (40 percent of their respective capital base). There are limited arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. On December 31, 1995, the midpoint rate for the French franc quoted on the market was FMG 697 per F 1, or FMG 3,423 per SI.1 Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are consid- ered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Operations Monitoring Unit of the General Director- ate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents; the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar; all outward investments; and inward direct investment. Some approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such intermediaries. All economic agents are allowed to import. Private operators and state trading companies are autho- rized to export all products to any market at prices freely negotiated by exporters and importers. Madagascar maintains arrears on certain external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts may be effected through authorized intermediaries in any currency. A bilat- ]This quotation was a low point in a very volatile market (on Janua ry 20,1996, the rate was FMG 830 per F 1). eral payments agreement with Mauritius has been inoperative for some time. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Since May 1994, residents and nonresidents have been freely permitted to open accounts in foreign currency with local commercial banks. Initially, only transfers from abroad or from another foreign cur- rency account, foreign banknotes, or traveler's and bank checks may be deposited in such accounts without justification. Since June 1995, however, banknotes are permitted to be deposited on these accounts. These accounts may be freely debited either for conversion into Malagasy francs through a sale on the interbank market or by transfer to a for- eign account in Madagascar or abroad. Conversion into foreign banknotes is allowed only within the limits stipulated under the applicable foreign exchange control regulation. Nonresidents are also authorized to open nonresi- dent accounts in Malagasy francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a foreign account, they must be credited to a special blocked account, the balance of which may be used by the holder for personal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Any other operation requires prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Transactions between enterprises in the free trade zone and resi- dents are conducted through the enterprises' foreign accounts in Malagasy francs. These enterprises are also permitted to maintain foreign exchange accounts with local banks. Imports and Import Payments Under the Liberalized Imports System (SILI), all economic agents listed in the trade register who are in good standing legally and with the tax adminis- tration may import and receive the total amount of foreign currency requested at the prevailing exchange rate. A short list of imports is subject to administrative control, primarily for reasons of secu- rity and health. Import licenses are not required for imports financed with foreign exchange already 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 293 owned by the importers and deposited in their for- eign currency accounts, and all administrative for- malities are handled by the banks through which the import transactions are effected. No restrictions of any kind apply to the opening of credit or the means of financing imports; importers may use their own resources, borrow from the bank- ing system, or avail themselves of external loans, including suppliers' credits, to finance imports. Most imports require a documentary credit, under which a local bank will agree to open a credit line for an importer on condition that the export is con- firmed by the exporter's corresponding bank. Local banks attach varying conditions to granting loans to their customers, with some banks requiring a deposit in foreign currency equivalent to 100 percent of the import cost (depot en devises). Importers are allowed to buy the necessary foreign exchange for their imports up to 120 days before settlement, although such amounts may be used only for the imports stipulated in the documentary credit. On April 3, 1992 (Decree No. 92.424 on the Regulations of Merchandise Imports and Exports), all import prohibitions were lifted, except for a few for health and security reasons. Import tar iffs range from 10 percent to 30 percent. Imports are also subject to customs duties ranging from zero to 20 percent; some imports, mostly luxury goods, are subject to excise import taxes ranging from 10 percent to 120 percent.2 Since the introduction of a floating exchange arrangement in 1994, there has been no difference between the exchange rate applied to finance and to tax imports and exports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, which has delegated approval authority to the General Directorate of the Treasury and to authorized intermediaries, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted, except for agency fees (commissions de representations), whose settlement is subject to the submission of a contract previously approved by the Minister of Finance (Treasury General Directorate). Residents traveling as tourists may purchase for- eign exchange up to an annual limit equivalent to F 6,000 a person a trip, irrespective of the number of trips taken (F 3,000 for children under 15 years). The foreign exchange allowance for business travel is the 2The sum of the import ta r i ff and the customs du ty does not ex- ceed 30 percent. equivalent of F 25,000 a trip. Applications for addi- tional foreign exchange must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and may be approved for bona fide business trips and medical treatment abroad, but not for tourism. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the General Directorate of the Treasury. Limits are set for educational expenses (F 6,000 for the first month, and F 3,000 for the following months) and certain other current invisibles (an overall limit of F 6,000 a month). The transfer of div- idends and profits to nonresident shareholders who are natural or juridical persons was liberalized under the terms of the Investment Code and the Industrial Free Trade Zone. Foreigners working in Madagascar may transfer savings from wages and salaries upon presentation of the work contract and employment permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 35 percent of net salary for bachelors and persons whose families reside in Madagascar; up to 60 percent for those whose fami- lies live outside Madagascar; and 100 percent for both categories during leave spent outside Mada- gascar. Remittances for medical treatment abroad are permitted when properly documented. Resident and nonresident travelers may take abroad up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy banknotes. There is no longer a requirement to fill a declaration of foreign means of payment upon entry into Mada- gascar, unless the amount brought in is more than F 50,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exporters listed in the trade register who are in good standing and have no outstanding tax obliga- tions may freely export their products (except vanilla) without restriction at prices negotiated directly between exporters and importers. The Gov- ernment's quality control or certification require- ment for exportable goods is limited to four products: vanilla, coffee, seafood, and meat. Mining products are covered by a special arrangement under the mining law. Quality control is limited to a quality or sanitary inspection certificate from the rel- evant government agency or, at the option of the exporter, from an internationally recognized special- ized private company. For vanilla and coffee, the control is effected at the level of stocks and not at the time of embarkation. For seafood and meat, the cer- tificate of origin and quality standard must be included in the documents for embarkation in the absence of an arrangement directly agreed upon by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 MADAGASCAR the importer and exporter in conformity with inter- national agreements. Since the 1990/91 crop year, all coffee producers have been permitted to negotiate and execute export contracts freely. The list of exports prohibited or sub- ject to prior approval, including mineral products, flora, and fauna, was reduced by Decree No. 92.424 (April 3, 1992). Vanilla continues to be the only export subject to taxation. On September 1, 1994, a single export tax was introduced at the rate of 35 percent, which was substituted in 1995 by a spe- cific tax equivalent to about $21 a kilogram. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment. Since June 1995, all exemptions to these rules were abolished. Exporters are required to sell the proceeds from their exports on the interbank market; however, they are allowed to deposit in their foreign exchange account 20 per- cent of the proceeds if the repatriation occurs within the first 30 days, 15 percent if the repatriation occurs within 60 days, and 10 percent if the repatriation occurs within 60 to 90 days of the shipment. In addi- tion, most exports over FMG 1 million are subject to a domiciliation requirement, under which the exporter must present to a certified intermediary (a local bank) a valid commercial contract and a writ- ten commitment to repatriate the foreign exchange proceeds. Export proceeds of enterprises operating in the free trade zone must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency as means of pay- ment and up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and for- eign countries and between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad; inward direct investment and all outward investment; and the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar, includ- ing those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Madagascar, as well as corresponding transfers, require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign direct investments abroad by Malagasy nationals, including those made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance. The total or par- tial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Malagasy investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minis- ter of Finance within 20 days of each transaction. Participation that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company is not considered direct invest- ment. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment may be repatriated with the prior autho- rization of the Ministry of Finance. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Madagascar requires prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance. Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Madagascar has previously been autho- rized. Borrowings abroad by natural or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, require prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit insti- tutions with special legal status are exempt. Enter- prises in the free trade zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Lend- ing abroad is subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with the Investment Code of December 29,1989 (Law No. 89026), enterprises ben- efiting from preferential treatment under the code are exempted from import taxes exceeding 10 percent on materials used in the production pro- cess. Enterprises operating in the industrial free trade zone established on December 29, 1989 may import these materials free of duty and tax. Gold Approved collectors acting in their own name and on their own account may purchase gold within the country from holders of valid gold-mining titles or from authorized holders of gold-washing rights. The price of gold may be set freely by buyers and sellers. Imports and exports of gold require prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Energy and Mines and by the Min- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 295 istry of Mining. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Cen- tral Bank, and (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person and 50 grams or 250 carats of numismatic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Holders of a valid gold-mining title or a gold-washing permit or rights are free to sell the gold recovered to any approved collector. However, Malagasy authorities, repre- sented by the Central Bank or its agents, have first rights to purchase gold produced in the country. All gold exports have to be processed through the Gold Board, which was established in late 1995. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments June 30. The value-added tax surcharge on imports was substituted by an excise tax ranging from 10 percent to 120 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, the external value of which is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the exchange market. Authorized dealer banks (ADB) may buy and sell foreign currencies at freely determined market exchange rates. Foreign exchange bureaus are autho- rized to conduct spot transactions with the general public on the basis of exchange rates negotiated with their clients, and foreign exchange brokers are authorized to match orders from buyers and sellers of foreign exchange on an agency basis.1 The Reserve Bank of Malawi operates a trading desk for buying and selling foreign exchange in the market. On December 31, 1995, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 15.2262 and MK 15.3792, respectively, per $1. The exchange rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, and the Zimbabwe dollar are determined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies con- cerned on the international market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. ADBs are free to make arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Malawi accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on December 7,1995. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under the authority delegated to it by the Min- ister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI), which is also responsible for issuing import and export licenses. All import and export licenses have been eliminated, with the exception of maize and the neg- ative list of goods for security reasons. Commercial banks, foreign exchange bureaus, and brokers are authorized dealers in foreign exchange. There are no payment restrictions in effect, except those imposed for security reasons. Payments to nonresidents may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account main- tained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency2 traded in Malawi. Payments from resi- dents of other countries may be received in Malawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any con- vertible foreign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds of sales of any convertible foreign currency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha to foreign countries by Malawian residents, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to resi- dents of Malawi for any purpose and may be trans- ferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to account holders temporarily residing in Malawi. Blocked accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized dealer banks by nonresidents. Debits and credits to such accounts do not require the prior authorization of the exchange control authorities. Normally, authorization is given for the balances of blocked accounts to be invested in an approved manner. On application to the ADBs, account hold- ers may normally transfer the interest on blocked account balances to their country of residence. Residents receiving foreign exchange regularly from abroad, including exporters, may maintain for- eign currency accounts with ADBs and use balances in the accounts to make authorized payments and transfers without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are subject to the open general license system. However, for certain agricultural and food products, new (military-type) and used cloth- ing, gold, fertilizers, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, wild animals, live fish, and copy- right articles, specific import licenses are required from the MCI. Goods originating in Commonwealth 1 Foreign exchange brokering has been temporarily suspended since the end of November 1994. 2Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 297 countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) may be imported under an open general license. Specific import licenses are usually issued within a week of application and are nor- mally valid for six months. Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, without referring to the Reserve Bank, for payment of all applications to import goods and services. When imports arrive in the country and payment is due, the importer must submit applications for for- eign exchange. Such applications must be accompa- nied by relevant importation and customs documents. Depending on means of payment (for example, letters of credit), commercial banks may require counterpart deposits. This is a matter of bank- ing practice and is not required by official regulations. Prepayment for imports is not allowed. Importers are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any con- vertible currency. Customs tariffs on nongovernment imports are ad valorem and range from zero to 45 percent of the c.i.f. value, with a weighted average of about 21 percent; the tariff on textiles is 35 percent. The effective maximum tariff for most tariff lines is 40 percent, as almost all trading partners qualify for preferential tar iffs under various international con- ventions. Government imports are exempt from cus- toms tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax, which is applied on the c.i.f. value, including cus- toms tariffs.3 The surtax rates range from zero to 20 percent for most imported items. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, without reference to the exchange control authorities, for all current invisible pay- ments, but certain invisible payments, such as pri- vate travel, business travel, and medical treatment are subject to indicative limits. The basic exchange allowance for each trip abroad is $3,000 for private travel (holiday); $5,000 for business travel; and $4,000 for medical purposes. Foreign exchange in excess of these limits are granted upon proof of need. There is no limit on the frequency of trips that may be taken. Travelers may take out, in addition to their basic travel allowance, up to MK 200 in domes- tic currency. In December 1995, the Reserve Bank announced an indicative limit of 10 percent on the commission payable on merchandise trade transactions. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit, subject to ADBs' approval, up to two-thirds of their current net earnings to their coun- try of normal residence or any country of their choice. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of implements of war, petroleum prod- ucts, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products are subject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds can be held in foreign currency accounts. ADBs are required to convert 60 percent of foreign exchange received from exports immediately upon receipt using the ruling buying exchange rate. The kwacha proceeds are credited to the customer's account. The remain- ing 40 percent may be credited to the exporter's for- eign currency account. There are no longer any restrictions on the time period over which such bal- ances may be held. This 60 percent conversion is also applied to U.S. dollar proceeds from the tobacco and tea auctions. In the case of tobacco proceeds, the con- version is 100 percent until the seller has fully repaid his overdraft with his bankers. The exporter or recip- ient of the U.S. dollar proceeds from the auction may freely sell his foreign exchange to any authorized foreign exchange dealer. Specific duties or cesses are levied on exports of hides and skins, and tobacco.4 Under a duty drawback scheme, customs tariffs paid on imports of certain inputs used for manufactured exports are rebated. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may be retained in full and held in foreign-currency-denominated accounts with ADBs. There is no limit on the amount of for- eign currency notes and coins that travelers may import, but they may not bring in more than MK 200 in Malawi currency notes and coins. Capital Inward transfers of nondebt-creating capital are not restricted. The taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted provided that 3The sur tax is levied on both imported and domestically pro- duced manufac tured goods. 4The cess is also levied, with some exemptions, on tobacco sold locally and on hides and skins at the ra te of 2 percent of export value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 MALAWI the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled mainly for residents. Nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country. Apart from the need to obtain the ADBs' approval, there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing to finance the transfer. Residents may not purchase any foreign securi- ties without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer cap- ital abroad, and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to ADBs for approval. Upon depar- ture, emigrants are allowed to exchange the equiv- alent of up to the amount approved. The balance, if any, of emigrants' funds is blocked, but on the first anniversary of their departure date from Malawi, a sum equal to the original emigration allowance may be transferred to the new country of residence. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary author- ities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce and Industry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement December 7. Malawi accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Payments for Invisibles April 12. The Reserve Bank changed the foreign exchange con version/retention requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. Its exter- nal value is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. Bank Negara Malay- sia, the central bank, intervenes only to maintain orderly market conditions and to avoid excessive fluctuations in the value of the ringgit. The external value of the currency is monitored against a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malaysia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates, whether spot or forward, to all customers for all currencies other than those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro). On December 31,1995, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was RM 2.5405 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Forward exchange contracts may be effected freely for commercial transactions; prior approval is required for financial transactions. For commercial transactions, forward cover for imports is provided for up to 12 months from the intended date of import, while for export purposes the forward cover would be up to six months from the export date. Malaysia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on November 11,1968. Administration of Control Bank Negara Malaysia administers exchange con- trol throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Government, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. There are no restric- tions on payments or transfers for current interna- tional transactions. Residents are required to complete a form for any payment, irrespective of its purpose, that exceeds RM 100,000 or its equivalent in foreign currency, only for statistical purposes. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Malaysia notified the Fund on June 23, 1993 that in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro). All payments to countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro) may be made either in ringgit or in any cur- rency other than those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Spe- cial rules apply to settlements with these two countries. Nonresident Accounts Ringgit accounts of nonresidents of Malaysia are designated external accounts. There are no restric- tions on debits to external accounts. Credits to these accounts are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of statistical forms for amounts exceed- ing RM 100,000 if such payments are made by resi- dents. Proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to external accounts, and the balances may be transferred to any other resi- dent or nonresident account or converted into any currency, except those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Accounts of residents of these two countries are des- ignated as Israeli accounts and Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) accounts, respec- tively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls for the various parts of Malaysia have been fully standardized. In 1995 import duties on more than 2,600 items, particularly on food and household items and raw materials, were reduced or abolished. In 1996, import duties on more than 1,500 raw materials, and components, and equipment were reduced or abolished. As part of its Uruguay Round commitments, Malaysia has agreed to reduce and bind tariffs on 7,200 items, rep- resenting 65 percent of all tariff lines, and to phase out nontariff barriers. Import licenses are required for certain goods as specified in Customs (Prohibition of Imports) Order No. 1988, for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before import licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to nonautomatic licensing, which is reviewed periodically to protect local infant and strategic industries temporarily. Imports from 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 MALAYSIA Israel are subject to licensing and imports from Haiti are prohibited. Imports of finished motor vehicles are subject to nonautomatic import licensing, which is adminis- tered by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. The movement of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak is subject to a permit issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of the meat, bones, hides, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any portion of an animal from all countries require an import license. Imports of primates, whether dead or alive, require an import license, subject to approval from the Depart- ment of Wildlife and National Parks. Payments for permitted imports are freely allowed. Raw materials and machinery for the manufacturing sector are eli- gible for preferential duty treatment as follows: (1) for the production of goods for the domestic mar- ket, most of the raw materials that are not available locally are not subject to customs duty; (2) manufac- turers for the domestic market may be further exempted from this duty if they comply with spe- cific requirements regarding equity participation, management, and employment structure; (3) manu- facturers are exempted from sales tax on all raw materials for the production of taxable goods that may be acquired free of duty, subject to conditions as specified in the Sales Tax Act of 1972; (4) for compa- nies that manufacture products for the export mar- ket, fu ll exemption from customs duty is granted when local raw materials are not available or are not competitive in price or quality; (5) all customs duties and sales taxes on imported machinery and equip- ment that are unavailable locally and are directly used in the manufacturing process can be consid- ered for exemption; and (6) manufacturers may claim customs duties and sales tax drawbacks on imported raw materials or components that are incorporated into finished products and exported within 12 months of the date of import. any other means requires prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) require import licensing from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Exports of logs are restricted and need licensing from the Malaysian Timber Industries Board (MITB). Exports of petroleum and petroleum products, arms and related materials, military vehi- cles and equipment, and police equipment to Haiti are prohibited. The customs areas and export control systems among the three territories of Malaysia are standard- ized. Exchange control forms must be completed for exports valued at more than RM 100,000 f.o.b. a shipment. Proceeds from exports must be received and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract, but no longer than six months after the date of exportation. This regulation does not apply to commercial samples or goods exported for repair or exchange and reim- ported into Malaysia. Exporters are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign cur- rency accounts with authorized banks in Malaysia up to $5 million.1 Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malay- sian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of roofing tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in any form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the second sched- ule of Customs (Prohibition of Exports) Order No. 1988 of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to permits. Export incentives are provided to companies that export Malaysian products. The primary incentives include a double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit refinancing, and duty drawbacks. Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro) may be made without restriction. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, royalties, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of statistical forms for amounts of RM 100,000 or more. There is no restriction on the exportation of currency notes in the immediate pos- session of a traveler. The exportation of ringgit by The exchange control authorities do not regulate the timeliness of exchange receipts from invisibles. No limitation is imposed on the importation of cur- rency notes by a traveler. The importation of domes- tic banknotes by other than authorized banks, or by any other means, requires prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. ]Ten banks designated as "first-tier banks" are permitted to of- fer foreign currency accounts. All other domestic banks must con- tinue to obtain permission from the Controller of Foreign Exchange before offering currency accounts to residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 301 Capital The following inward investments, covered by the guidelines issued on February 20,1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers), require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) proposed acquisition of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) proposed acquisition of assets or interests, merg- ers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that will cause ownership or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) proposed acquisition of 15 percent or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30 percent or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, management agreement, or technical assistance or other arrange- ment; (5) merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 mil- lion in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a for- eign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the following circumstances: (1) the total value of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds RM 5 million; (2) the total of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds 15 percent of the voting power in the rele- vant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid- up capital, any foreign entity increases its voting power to more than 15 percent in the relevant com- pany; (4) the total of the new subscription by several foreign entities increases their joint voting power to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the rele- vant company; (5) as a result of the increase in paid- up capital, the aggregate holding of several foreign entities increases to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (6) an increase in the paid-up capital of any Malaysian company to more than RM 5 million on incorporation, the hold- ing of foreign entities constitutes more than 15 per- cent of the voting power, or the joint holding of several foreign entities constitutes 30 percent or more of the voting power of the company concerned. Foreign investors are permitted to hold equity of up to 100 percent if they export 80 percent or more of their production. For projects exporting between 51 percent and 79 percent of their production, for- eign equity ownership of up to 79 percent is permit- ted, depending on such factors as the level of technology, spin-off effects, size of the investment, location, value added, and the use of local raw mate- rials and components. For projects exporting between 20 percent and 50 percent of their produc- tion, foreign equity ownership of between 30 percent and 51 percent is allowed, depending on factors sim- ilar to those mentioned earlier. For projects export- ing less than 20 percent of their production, foreign equity is allowed up to a maximum of 30 percent. For the purpose of equity determination, export sales are defined as excluding sales to free zones and licensed manufacturing warehouses; the objective of this redefinition is to promote greater links between multinational corporations and domestic industries. Notwithstanding the above, projects producing high-technology products or priority products for the domestic market, as determined by the Govern- ment from time to time, may be allowed foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent. These equity guidelines do not apply to new projects in certain sectors where foreign equity ownership of up to 60 percent is allowed for domestic sales (including sales to free zones and licensed manufacturing ware- houses) for the following sectors: press working and stamping industry; plastic injections, moulded com- ponents, and parts for the electrical, electronic, and telecommunications industry; plastic compounds and masterbatch, electroplating, and heat treatment activities; fabrication of furniture components such as nylon chair bases and arms; manufacture of foundry products, connectors, transformers, and coils; hot stamping; spray painting and silk screen printing services; and polished granite, marble slab, and tile production. For projects involving extracting, mining, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100 percent is permitted. To determine the percentage for these projects, various criteria (e.g., levels of investment technology and risk involved; availability of Malaysian expertise in the areas of exploration, mining, and processing of the minerals concerned; degree of integration; and level of value added involved) are taken into consid- eration. For new hotel and tourist projects, foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is allowed for five years from the date the operation begins, after which such ownership must be reduced to 51 per- cent; for "budget hotels," a local equity ownership of 70 percent is required, 5 percent is imposed. Permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is not required for direct and portfolio investments by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro), provided that the resident concerned ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 MALAYSIA has not obtained any domestic credit and that pay- ments are made in foreign currency. If investors have any domestic credit, they must obtain prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange for their investment abroad. However, a corporate resident who has obtained a domestic credit facility is allowed to remit funds up to the equivalent of RM10 million a calendar year for investment abroad. Com- mercial banks are not encouraged to give loans to finance investments abroad that are considered unlikely to lead to long-term benefits for the econ- omy; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive capacity in Malaysia. Com- mercial banks and Tier-1 merchant banks are permit- ted to have either a short or a long open foreign exchange position ranging from RM 10 million to RM 500 million, based on the limit approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Ceilings on banks' net external liability positions were removed in Jan- uary 1995. Investment proceeds may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of a statistical form, for amounts of RM 100,000 or more. Nonresident- controlled companies in Malaysia are permitted to borrow up to RM 10 million, including immovable property loans, without exchange control approval, irrespective of the amount of the loan; at least 60 per- cent of total credit facilities from banking institu- tions in Malaysia must be from Malaysian-owned financial institutions. Nonresidents who have valid work permits are allowed to borrow freely from domestic financial institutions to finance up to 60 percent of the purchase price of residential prop- erty for their own accommodation. Residents are allowed to borrow in foreign curren- cies from nonresidents as well as from commercial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia up to the aggregate of the equivalent of RM 5 million, includ- ing financial guarantees, from nonresident financial institutions. For aggregate amounts exceeding RM 5 million, however, approval must be obtained from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, stating the main terms and conditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan proceeds will be used. Approval is readily granted if the loan is to be used for produc- tive investment within the country and the resident borrower is judged to be able to generate sufficient foreign exchange to service the loan. Offshore guar- antees for loans, whether denominated in ringgit or foreign currency, obtained from licensed offshore banks do not require authorization. Foreign borrow- ing in ringgit of any amount requires prior approval, which is not usually granted. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be effected by commer- cial banks, provided that payments are made in accordance with the approved terms and conditions of the loans. Commercial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia may lend in foreign currency to resi- dents and accept deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents. As an incentive, interest paid to non- residents by the commercial banks is exempted from the 15 percent withholding tax. Intercompany accounts, which exclude proceeds from the exportation of Malaysian goods and pro- ceeds from loans extended to Malaysian companies, may be maintained with any company outside Malaysia, provided that monthly returns are submit- ted to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Prior per- mission from the Controller of Foreign Exchange is required for exporters to offset their export proceeds through intercompany accounts against payments to overseas companies for the supply of raw materials and components. Gold Residents of Malaysia are free to deal (purchase, sell, import, export, borrow, etc.) in gold in any state or form with any person, except residents of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro). Changes During 1995 Capital January 20. Ceilings on the net external liability positions of banks, imposed since January 24,1994, were removed. June 27. Corporate residents with a domestic credit facility were allowed to remit funds up to the equivalent of RM 10 million for overseas investment purposes each calendar year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa. Since March 1, 1987, the Maldives Mone- tary Authority has followed a floating exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate has been determined by demand and supply conditions in the market, although the Monetary Authority may inter- vene in the market when deemed appropriate. The midpoint exchange rate of the rufiyaa in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31,1995 was Rf 11.77 per $1. The Monetary Authority charges commercial banks a f lat 1 percent for remitting foreign banknotes abroad and there is a daily limit of $5,000 in a bank's access to foreign currency notes from the Monetary Authority. The Monetary Authority carries out trans- actions freely with the private sector through the operations of the Government Exchange Counter. The Monetary Authority periodically sets daily lim- its for each individual's or enterprise's access to for- eign exchange through the Counter, based on the availability of official reserves. As of January 1994, the limits were $300 a person for cash, and $2,000 a person or enterprise for checks. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade regulations are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency There are no restrictions on maintaining bank accounts or holding cash in foreign currency. For- eign currency must be converted to rufiyaa through a bank or a licensed money changer who is autho- rized by the Monetary Authority to exchange for- eign currencies. Imports from Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. All goods may be imported under an open general license system. Licenses are issued on application. Ad valorem import duties are calculated on the c.i.f. or c. & f. value of imports, as appropriate. Staple commodities (rice, flour, and sugar) are imported mainly by the State Trading Organization. Duties are levied on all merchandise items other than rice, flour, and sugar. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency without restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The private sector may export most items, with the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. Locals and foreigners are encouraged to fish in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) outside of the 75- mile zone from the shoreline, which is reserved for traditional fishing. They must pay the Government a royalty on fish they catch in the EEZ. Exports of fish and fish products (except ambergris) are exempt from duties. Re-exports are exempt from duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Travel- ers may bring in any amount of foreign currency without restriction. Capital Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; there are no restrictions on maintaining foreign currency bal- ances. Residents do not require permission to main- tain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market. Inward direct investment requires approval. All foreign investors are required to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment in the form of either cash or capital goods financed from outside Maldives. Transfers of profits are permitted freely. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 MALDIVES Exemption from duties and taxes, other than the tourism tax, may be granted for a period as specified by the Government. form, at home or abroad, and the importation and exportation of gold are not restricted. Gold Changes During 1995 Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.01. The offi- cial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are offi- cially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currencies con- cerned. The banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mil on transfers to or from nonmember countries of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU),2 all of which must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transfers are subject to a stamp tax. Residents may obtain forward exchange rate cover for payments of imports or exports of goods on specified lists. Forward exchange rate cover must be denominated in the currency prescribed in the contract and is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Commerce. Forward exchange contracts for imports must be for a for- ward period of up to one month and cannot be renewed. For certain products, the duration of for- ward exchange rate cover may be extended to three months but cannot be renewed. For exports, the duration of forward exchange contracts may not exceed 120 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Mali accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters, but has dele- gated certain exchange control powers to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. Imports and exports are subject to registration with the National Directorate of Economic Affa irs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. lrThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2The WAEMU replaced the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) on January 10, 1994. The WAEMU treaty was ratified and became effective on August 1,1994. Prescription of Currency Because Mali has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other member of the Operations Account Area. Set- tlements with all other countries with which no pay- ments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may not be credited with CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. As the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of BCEAO banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes without prior authorization. Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements; im- ports are required only to be registered, and permits are issued automatically. Imports from Israel are prohibited. A variety of tar iffs are applied to imports, includ- ing a customs duty, a fiscal duty, and a customs ser- vices fee; certain goods are exempted from some of these taxes. With the exception of petroleum products, tariff rates are ad valorem and based on the c.i.f. value. Petroleum products are subject to a variable levy, based on administrative values established with ref- erence to prices charged by refineries in Dakar and Abidjan. Imports are subject to additional taxes ranging from 7.5 percent to 55 percent. (These addi- tional taxes were temporarily suspended on January 28,1994.) Payments for Invisibles Since August 1993 when the WAEMU monetary authorities suspended the repurchase of banknotes 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 MALI issued by the BCEAO and exported outside the terri- tories of the WAEMU countries, payments for invisi- bles to France and the BCEAO countries have been subject to the same restrictions as payments to other countries. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are sub- ject to approval. Residents traveling to non-BCEAO countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in banknotes, and they may take out amounts exceeding this limit in other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries out- side the franc zone are subject to the following regu- lations: (1) for tourist travel, the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourism allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial interme- diaries and authorized by the respective ministers of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Residents trav- eling to non-BCEAO countries are not allowed to take out BCEAO banknotes. Upon arrival at cus- toms, returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession and must surrender within eight days all means of pay- ment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers to non-BCEAO countries must declare in writing, at the time of departure, all means of payment at their disposal. Nonresident travelers may re-export means of payment, other than banknotes, issued abroad and registered in their name. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceil- ings and other means of payment issued in Mali requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresi- dent deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Remittances abroad for family maintenance, education allow- ances, and medical treatment, and transfers of prof- its or dividends from foreign direct investment may be made freely by authorized intermediaries when the appropriate documentation is presented. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account, must be repatriated through the BCEAO and surrendered within 30 days of the pay- ment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. All exports require only a certificate of registration. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from res- idents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. However, they must declare the amounts they bring in. Capital Capital movements between Mali and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Commerce and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from these countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad. The special control mea- sures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. The investment code adopted on January 1, 1991, simplified procedures for foreign and domestic inves- tors to obtain preferential treatment with respect to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 307 domestic taxes for investments that meet specific cri- teria on employment creation, domestic content of production, location, and value of investment. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coins and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, including bank domiciliation, customs declaration, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Mali accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of April 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira, the external value of which is determined on the basis of a weighted basket consisting of the pound sterling, the U.S. dollar, and the European currency unit (ECU). The Central Bank of Malta computes the daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of the other currency components of the basket, with the ECU component being computed in terms of its own cur- rency composition. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies,1 taking as a basis the rates of the lira against the U.S. dollar and the cross rates of these currencies against the U.S. dollar, as quoted in the international market. Unless market conditions indicate otherwise, a spread of 0.125 percent is applied to the middle rate to com- pute the buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank and the credit institutions (authorized banks). These transactions may be con- ducted in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars in amounts of less than Lm 50,000. Transac- tions in smaller amounts are handled through the interbank market. There is no limit on the spread between the buying and selling rates the credit insti- tutions may quote. Authorized banks may also establish rates for currencies not quoted by the Cen- tral Bank based on the latest market rates as reported by Reuters. These rates are treated as provisional for large amounts and are quoted on request. The clos- ing middle rate for the Maltese lira in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1995 was $2.8377 per L m l. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, except for a subsidy in the form of a guaranteed exchange rate for the pound sterling against the Maltese lira which is offered to United Kingdom tour operators during the winter seasons (November-May). This arrangement is being gradually phased out, and will be terminated in May 1997. Malta accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, on Novem- ber 30,1994. ]The Central Bank quotes daily rates for 30 other currencies in addition to the U.S. dollar, among which are Belgian francs, deut- sche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and ECUs. Authorized banks are permitted to provide their customers with forward cover in respect of firm con- tractual commitments involving current account transactions. The Central Bank provides forward cover directly to government departments and pub- lic sector bodies in respect of such transactions. For- ward rates are based on interest rate differentials. Administration of Control The Central Bank, as agent for the Minister of Finance, administers exchange controls; the Director of Imports and Internal Trade in the Ministry of Finance administers trade controls. The Central Bank has delegated most of its powers to approve exchange transactions to the authorized banks. They may also give or renew guarantees and indemnities in connection with payments by residents. In the case of nonresidents, the authorized banks must hold full cash cover in external Maltese liri, foreign currency, or foreign securities for the duration of the guarantee or indemnity. Authority to approve foreign exchange payments solely for travel purposes has also been delegated to a limited number of foreign exchange bureaus, which hold licenses on financial institutions. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an external account or in any foreign currency, while the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in any for- eign currency.2 Commercial transactions between Malta and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya may be settled under a banking arrangement that is administered by the central banks of the respective countries. Transac- tions fall due within 90 days and are settled in con- vertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold foreign currency or Malt- ese lira accounts with the authorized banks. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments from residents and with funds originating abroad. Nonresident accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and for payments over- foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 309 seas. In effecting such operations, credit and finan- cial institutions are subject to the requirement of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act of 1994, and other regulations in force pursuant to this Act. Subject to exchange control permission, compa- nies controlled by nonresidents may maintain for- eign currency accounts in Malta and abroad. International trading companies3 are exempted from the requirement to obtain approval for opening for- eign currency accounts and for effecting foreign exchange payments. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required for the importation of items that need clearance for health, safety, security, and environmental reasons, as well as for particularly sensitive items, such as handmade lace and gold and silver filigree. Imports of fresh and foreign fish are also controlled to safeguard the local fisheries indus- try. All other products may be freely imported under open general licenses (OGLs). The importation of barley, maize, hard and soft wheat, fresh fish, and certain petroleum products is undertaken only by state-owned enterprises. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that currency regulations are com- plied with and that supporting documents, includ- ing the customs entry form for imports over Lm 20,000 and related import license, where appli- cable, are submitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, export-oriented companies may retain foreign exchange earnings for a maxi- mum period of four months to make payments for imports that are connected to their exporting busi- ness. On the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely although, in some cases, they are subject to limits on the amounts remitted. These limits are intended to prevent funds from being remitted for capital trans- fer purposes. In the case of leisure and business travel, there are no restrictions on payments for accommodation and transportation expenses as long as they are paid for in Malta or abroad with credit cards. Furthermore, each person is entitled to a travel allowance equivalent to Lm 2,500 a trip. Amounts in excess of the above limit may be granted upon submission of documentary proof of need. Nonresident travelers may export foreign currency up to the amount they brought in and declared to customs on entry; they may export up to Lm 25 a person in Maltese notes and coins. The allowance for educational expenses is not restricted.4 The maximum annual amount of funds each resident may transfer abroad to other family members or as a cash gift is Lm 2,500. Remittances above these limits require exchange control approval, which is usually granted upon the submission of doc- umentary evidence. There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits and dividends by companies in Malta to nonresident shareholders provided support- ing documents are presented to the authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all products may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to coun- tries in the European Union (EU) require licenses for administrative purposes. Export proceeds must be received within six months of shipment and surren- dered to the authorized banks. However, exporters may retain export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks for up to four months to make import payments connected with their exporting business. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or deposited in a foreign currency account under the same condi- tions as those stipulated for exporters described above. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes subject to the requirement of the money-laundering legislation. The importation of Maltese banknotes and coins in excess of Lm 50 is not permitted. Capital Applications for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents must be approved in advance by the Ministry of Finance. However, such authorization is withheld only in exceptional cases. Direct invest- ment is usually prohibited where this involves such business activities as real estate and wholesale and retail trade (particularly importation of consumer goods for resale). Applications for direct investment in other activities may also be refused if the sectors 3These are companies owned entirely by nonresident share- holders (except for one share, which could be held by a Maltese resident) and engaging solely in activities outside Malta. 4For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, res- idents are defined as persons who,are living in Malta and have ei- ther lived in Malta for at least three years or intend to continue living in Malta for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 MALTA involved are considered sensitive from a local econ- omy perspective. The remittance of proceeds from the liquidation of such investments is also subject to approval by the Central Bank. This is usually granted once certain formalities, such as the submis- sion of documentary evidence of the original invest- ment are completed. In the case of residents, both individuals and companies are allowed to remit up to Lm 50,000 a year for direct investment purposes. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Nonres- idents) Act of 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents5 (with the excep- tion of certain special cases related mainly to eco- nomic development). However, nonresidents are allowed to acquire immovable property in Malta with the permission of the Minister of Finance, pro- vided that (1) the property is for residential use by the nonresident; (2) the value is not under Lm 15,000; and (3) funds for acquisition originate from overseas. Foreign nationals (residents of Malta) who decide to take up residence abroad are permit- ted to transfer all their assets held in Malta to their new country of residence. Applications by residents to purchase real estate abroad require the approval of the Central Bank, which considers each case on its own merits. Resi- dents are, however, allowed to purchase real estate overseas using funds already held in portfolio investments abroad. Emigrating Maltese nationals may transfer all their assets abroad without limit. In the case of portfolio investment, where resi- dents are concerned, both individuals and compa- nies are permitted to invest up to a maximum of Lm 5,000 a year. Requests for portfolio investment above the Lm 5,000 limit require exchange control approval. Residents are permitted to take up life insurance policies only with licensed insurance com- panies in Maltese currency. Investment funds repatriated by residents may either be surrendered to an authorized bank for con- version into domestic currency or held in foreign cur- rency accounts with authorized banks. Insurance payments to residents received from nonresident sources are eligible for investment overseas. Residents are permitted to hold foreign currency in the form of cash up to a maximum limit equivalent to Lm 1,000. 5For the purposes of this act, the term nonresident includes in- dividuals who are not residing in Malta but excludes Maltese citi- zens living abroad and foreign spouses of citizens of Malta; and any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (1) it is registered outside Malta; (2) it has its principal place of residence or business outside Malta; (3) 25 percent or more of its shares or other capital is owned by a nonresident person; or (4) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. Nonresidents must obtain approval from the Cen- tral Bank to purchase or acquire from residents secu- rities that are not listed on the Malta Stock Exchange. Such approval is not required for portfolio invest- ment undertaken by nonresidents in the form of bank deposits, government treasury bills, and securi- ties listed on the Malta Stock Exchange. Loans of up to Lm 5,000 may be contracted between residents and nonresidents without approval, subject to the presentation of certain documentation to the remit- ting bank for verification purposes. Residents are also allowed to obtain loans in excess of Lm 5,000 from foreign sources, provided that the loan is for a period of over three years and related documentation is submitted for registration purposes. Borrowing in excess of Lm 5,000 for a period of less than three years' maturity is subject to Central Bank approval. Authorized banks, other than those involved solely in offshore financial activities, as well as cer- tain financial institutions, are permitted to hold a foreign asset portfolio up to a limit stipulated by the Central Bank. This limit is exclusive of other foreign assets held to back foreign currency liabilities. Authorized banks are allowed to borrow from over- seas, provided that they cover their foreign exchange exposure. They are also permitted to extend loans in foreign currency to residents and nonresidents sub- ject to the limits stipulated by the Central Bank with regard to foreign asset portfolio holdings. Collective investment schemes are allowed to invest abroad, without exchange control approval, all funds originating from overseas or from resident sources, as long as the latter do not exceed the yearly portfolio investment allowance. Gold Malta has issued 23 denominations of gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coins and acquire jewelry but must obtain permis- sion from the Central Bank to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. The importation of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are used for genuine numismatic purposes. A spe- cific import license is required for the importation of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured and semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold and silver are restricted. Subject to exchange control permission, authorized importers may import gold bullion solely for the use of jewelers and other industrial users. The exportation of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities also requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coins are subject to the value-added tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 311 Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1996 Capital January 1. The annual limit on direct investment that resident individuals and companies are allowed to undertake overseas was raised to Lm 150,000 from Lm 50,000. March 29. Residents were allowed to contract in foreign currency life insurance policies with nonresi- dents who are lawfully engaged in the business of life insurance in Malta. Both the initial subscription and the annual premiums are, however, not to exceed the portfolio investment limit of Lm 5,000 a year that is currently granted to residents over 18 years of age. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of the Marshall Islands is the U.S. Dollar.1 There is no central mone- tary institution. The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange; foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commercial banks, which are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regu- lated by a statutory banking board. These commer- cial banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in the international markets. Forward trans- actions may be conducted through these commercial banks without restriction. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Republic of the Marshall Islands accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 21,1992. Administration of Control There are no exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in U.S. currency or in any other convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to import licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Specific and ad valorem duties are levied under the Import Duties Act of 1989. Specific duties are lev- ied at the following rates: cigarettes, 50 cents a pack (of 20); carbonated nonalcoholic beverages, 25 cents a can or bottle (of 12 fluid ounces); beer and malt beverages, 50 cents a can or bottle (of 12 fluid ounces); spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages, $25 a U.S. gallon; wines, $15 a U.S. gallon; gasoline, 25 cents a U.S. gallon; propane, 3 cents a pound; jet fuel, 15 cents a U.S. gallon; and kerosene, 5 cents a U.S. gallon. Ad valorem duties range from 5 percent 'The Marshall Islands must consult the United States if it de- cides to issue its own currency. to 75 percent. With the exception of food items, med- icines, building materials, and heavy machinery, which carry a rate of 5 percent, most other products are subject to a duty of 10 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, and there are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. The purchasing, processing, and exportation of copra and copra by-products are conducted solely by the government-owned Tobolar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or pro- ceeds from invisibles. Capital Foreign investors are required to submit applica- tions to the Cabinet and obtain a license in order to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a busi- ness in the Marshall Islands. The Cabinet has the authority to formulate policies regarding incentives and priorities for foreign direct investment. Although no special financial incentives are offered to foreign investors, a number of incentives are available under certain U.S. laws (for example, duty-free access to the U.S. market for most products). Foreigners are pro- hibited from owning land, but foreign investors can obtain long-term leases (the maximum period is 50 years, with an option to renew) for land acquired for their business. All other inward and outward capital transfers are unrestricted, with the exception that commercial banks cannot transfer abroad more than 25 percent of deposits received from Marshallese citizens, including domestic corporations and the authorities. This provision does not prevent a depositor from transferring any deposits abroad. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of February 29,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is mar- ket determined; the average market rate of the day is used for all official transactions. Daily exchange rates for 16 other currencies,1 including those used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies as published by Reuters. On December 31,1995, the midpoint exchange rate of the ouguiya in terms of the U.S. dollar was UM 137.11 per $1. The Central Bank of Mauritania sells foreign cur- rency notes and traveler's checks only for official travel and for other purposes judged to be excep- tional; commissions of 1.75 percent are applied to purchases and sales by the Central Bank involving traveler's checks and foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, but authorized banks and exchange bureaus are free to set their commissions for foreign currency transactions. The commercial banks are free to set their exchange rates for foreign currency notes and traveler's checks, which they may buy on a no-questions-asked basis. Only intermediary banks and foreign exchange bureaus licensed by the Central Bank are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined exchange rates. The source of foreign exchange need not be declared, and foreign exchange may be pur- chased anonymously. Hotels, shipping companies, travel agencies, and others alike may buy banknotes and traveler's checks in foreign currencies under the control of a licensed intermediary bank, but these entities are not authorized to sell such means of pay- ments to the public and must surrender any foreign exchange they have purchased to the bank that granted them the "delegated" authorization. The average exchange rate is applied to foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Administration. This exchange rate is also applied to remittances through the Postal Administration by Mauritanian workers residing abroad. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Bank has delegated this power to authorized banks and exchange bureaus. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks and exchange bureaus or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. All imports require exchange control approval from the Central Bank. Special regimes apply to the imports of government entities and state enterprises. A tax of 3 percent is levied on international trade to finance the collection of statistics. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Settle- ments with other countries usually take place in con- vertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Licensed intermediary banks may freely open for- eign currency accounts for resident individuals and legal entities (comptes d'escale). Accounts denomi- nated in foreign currencies or convertible ouguiya may be credited with transfers from abroad or from another foreign account, proceeds from the encash- ment of checks drawn on a foreign bank or on another foreign account to open in a Mauritanian bank the order of the account holder, transfers issued by a licensed intermediary bank by order of a resi- dent in payment of transactions authorized by the exchange control regulations, and proceeds from the surrender of foreign exchange on account on the for- eign exchange market (banknotes, whether foreign or issued by the Central Bank, however, may not be deposited). These accounts may be debited for for- eign exchange surrendered on the foreign exchange market, funds made available abroad, withdrawals of traveler's checks denominated in a foreign cur- 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 MAURITANIA rency by the holder, transfers in favor of another for- eign account or a resident, checks issued by the holder of the account in favor of another nonresident or of a resident, and withdrawals of banknotes issued by the Central Bank. Transit accounts may be opened freely by resident consignees on their books under the names of shipping companies. Resident Accounts Licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus may freely open accounts with banks abroad to accommodate foreign exchange market transactions. Other residents may not open accounts abroad. Exporters holding an import-export permit may open foreign exchange accounts in Mauritanian banks to deposit retained balances of proceeds from export earnings in foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Goods imported by the holders of import-export permits are exempted from authorization and domiciliation requirement; the importer is required only to establish an import cer- tificate endorsed by the Central Bank. Imports by nonholders of import-export permits are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Commerce, and import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import-export permits must be renewed every year. All residents who pay the turn- over tax (TCA) of at least UM 300,000 and who import or export on a regular basis (except debtors in arrears with the banking system) may obtain an import-export permit. Upon presentation of the import certificate approved by the Central Bank, the importer may purchase the foreign exchange from an authorized bank or an exchange bureau. Advance payments for imports require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. There is a general customs duty rate of 15 percent, and a reduced rate of 5 percent applies to selected goods. Certain capital goods and various consumer goods, such as tea, salt, and medicines, are exempt. All imports from the West African Economic Com- munity (WAEC) that are not subject to the regional cooperation tax are also exempt, as are some imports from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the European Union (EU). In addition to the customs duty, import taxes are levied at rates ranging from 5 percent to 166 percent (with various exemptions); a minimum turnover tax is levied at a minimum rate of 10 percent and a maximum rate of 20 percent (with various exemptions); and a regional cooperation tax is levied on certain industrial products imported from WAEC countries in lieu of import duties that are levied on other imports. Payments for Invisibles There are no limits on the acquisition and transfer of foreign exchange through the foreign exchange market for all current transactions, subject to the pre- sentation of documentary evidence of the authentic- ity and legitimacy of the transactions. For travel purposes, residents may freely purchase banknotes and traveler's checks denominated in foreign cur- rencies, upon presentation of their passport and a travel ticket. Amounts exceeding UM 15,000 a day for the trip abroad are subject to the Central Bank's approval. The signing of a contract for services ren- dered by nonresidents to residents is subject to the Central Bank's endorsement; foreign exchange nec- essary to pay for their services may be acquired upon presentation of the endorsed contract and a bill of costs. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods by holders of import-export per- mits are exempted from authorization, and the exporter is required only to establish an export cer- tificate that must be endorsed by the Central Bank. Exports by nonholders of import-export permits are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Commerce. Export transactions to all countries exceeding UM 20,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export certificates submitted to the Central Bank for approval must specify the quantity, value, and destination of the goods to be exported, and they must undertake to repatriate and surrender for- eign exchange proceeds. Export proceeds must be repatriated no later than the due date of the receipt. Exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and Mining Company, and a special exemption applies to the repatriation of its export proceeds. Exports of demersal fish are the monopoly of the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company. Exporters who hold import-export permits are allowed to retain 30 percent of their proceeds in for- eign exchange accounts maintained at domestic banks (for up to 30 days). The Central Bank buys 40 percent of exporter proceeds directly from the export at the average market exchange rate, while the remaining 30 percent must be sold in the exchange market. Within the 30-day period, the for- eign exchange must be used either to pay for imports of the account holder or for his or her other current account transactions, or surrendered in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 315 exchange for ouguiya to banks or foreign exchange bureaus. A tax is levied on exports of fish and crustaceans, at rates ranging from 8 percent to 20 percent for spe- cialized catches and at a rate of 5 percent for shrimp and crayfish. Proceeds from Invisibles Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus may buy foreign currency banknotes and traveler's checks on a no-questions-asked basis. Services rou- tinely rendered abroad by residents must be domi- ciled at a licensed intermediary bank. Proceeds from such services must be repatriated within four months and surrendered in exchange for ouguiya in the same manner as proceeds from the export of goods. Exports of banknotes and coins issued by the Cen- tral Bank are not permitted. Residents are autho- rized to export foreign exchange obtained legally but must present to customs their passport and ticket annotated by the bank or foreign exchange bureau that issued foreign exchange to them. Non- residents of foreign nationality may freely bring in foreign currencies (subject to customs clearance for amounts exceeding $2,000) and export payment instruments denominated in foreign currencies in amounts up to those declared upon entry, less amounts surrendered in exchange for ouguiya in the minimum sum of UM 10,000 a day. Prior to their departure, these nonresidents may repurchase for- eign exchange from banks or foreign exchange bureaus if they have surrendered foreign exchange during their stay in amounts exceeding UM 10,000. Nonresident holders of foreign accounts denomi- nated in a foreign currency or in convertible ouguiya on the books of licensed intermediary banks may export any traveler's checks denominated in foreign currencies that have been purchased by debit to the aforementioned accounts. Capital Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require Central Bank approval and are restricted, but capital receipts are normally permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. Residents must have prior authorization from the Central Bank to invest abroad. Foreign direct invest- ments in Mauritania2 and Mauritanian direct invest- ments abroad3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Investment Code of January 23, 1989, pro- vides for various benefits for private investments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and dividends accruing from these investments can be transferred freely. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement December 31. The official and the free market exchange rates were unified, and official transac- tions would be effected at the average exchange rate in the free market. Imports and Import Payments December 31. The system of auctioning import authorizations was abolished. Imports must be financed with foreign exchange purchased in the free market. Changes During 1996 Exports and Export Proceeds February 1. The rate of export proceeds required to be surrendered to the Central Bank was reduced from 40 percent to 30 percent. Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Mauritania. Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Rupee, the external value of which is determined by supply and demand in the interbank exchange market. Daily opening rates for all banks' small transactions are determined by the Bank of Mauritius. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates were Mau Rs 18.213 and M a uRs 18.440, respec- tively, per $1. Companies operating in the export processing zone (EPZ) and other Mauritian exporters and traders dealing in priority imports are authorized to engage in forward cover transactions in foreign exchange markets abroad through their banks in Mauritius. Companies operating in the EPZ and the service zone and certain other companies are authorized to main- tain, with local commercial banks, accounts denomi- nated in foreign currencies. Commercial banks operate as authorized dealers. Offshore banks are allowed to lend to both residents and nonresidents in foreign currencies; however, lending to residents is subject to approval from the Bank of Mauritius. Mauritius accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund of Agreement on September 29,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated by the Financial Secretary. The Bank of Mauritius issues foreign exchange dealing licenses; and commercial banks, as agents of the Bank of Mauritius, are authorized to approve and effect payments for current transac- tions. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is respon- sible for issuing import permits where necessary. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Control Act has been suspended since July 27, 1994. Consequently, there are no pre- scription of currency requirements. Payments to nonresidents may be made in Mauritian rupees or in any convertible foreign currency. Similarly, pay- ments from nonresidents may be received in Mauri- tian rupees or in any convertible foreign currency. Mauritius maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Madagascar. There is no distinction between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents in Mauritius. Residents may maintain accounts denominated in foreign curren- cies abroad or with local commercial banks. External accounts may be opened by residents and firms of other countries and may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauri- tius, (2) transfers from other external accounts, and (3) the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers of any convertible foreign currency by nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for (1) payments to resi- dents of Mauritius, (2) transfers to other external accounts, and (3) the cost of purchase of any con- vertible foreign currency or gold. The Nonresident (External Account) Scheme, reintroduced on Sep- tember 25, 1985, allows Mauritians abroad to open savings or fixed-deposit accounts with commercial banks in Mauritius in rupees and term deposit accounts in foreign currencies. Interest on such deposits is exempted from income tax. As long as they are abroad, holders of such accounts are free at any time to transfer the balances of their accounts, together with interest. As of August 16,1993, the Bank of Mauritius no longer provides exchange rate guarantees for balances in nonresident accounts with respect to new deposits. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordinance. Under the Supply (Control of Imports) Regulations of 1991, controlled goods, as specified in the first schedule, require import permits from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Customs duty, fiscal duty, and import levy are now merged into one sin- gle basic import duty. Certain items, namely vehi- cles, petroleum products, alcoholic drinks, and cigarettes are subject to excise duties. Commercial banks are authorized to approve and transfer funds for import payments without restriction. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports and purchases of foreign exchange for travel are permit- ted without restriction. Residents may hold interna- tional credit cards and use them to pay for travel expenses abroad. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 317 There are no restrictions on the amount of cur- rency notes and coins that may be taken out of the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and works of art are prohibited unless permission is obtained from the Bank of Mauritius. Exports of certain foodstuffs, including fruits, are controlled. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar, and all export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Mauritius. No tax is levied on sugar exports. Exporters are allowed to operate foreign exchange accounts at the commer- cial banks. All export proceeds must be repatriated within six months of shipment and offered for sale to an authorized dealer or credited to a foreign cur- rency account to meet payments for imports. Exports to Canada and the United States of knit shirts and cotton, wool, and man-made fiber sweaters are effected under bilateral export restraint agreements. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be repatriated and offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but travelers may not import more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic cur- rency notes and coins. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers into or out of Mauritius. However, noncitizens buying property in Mauritius must obtain the permission from the Minister of Internal Affa irs under the Non- citizens Act (Property Restriction). Foreign investors are allowed to repatriate their capital, without pay- ing a tax and without prior approval from the Bank of Mauritius. Offshore banking facilities may be established since January 1,1989. Emigrants to any country may take out, at the offi- cial rate of exchange and free of duty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 500,000 a family from their Mauritian assets upon redesignation as nonresidents, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited to a blocked account; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to a 5 percent duty. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (gold coins of Mau Rs 100, Mau Rs 500, and Mau Rs 1,000, and such commemorative gold coins as Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as personal jew- elry and ornaments. Exports and imports of mone- tary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. The Bank of Mauritius is the sole importer of pure gold for sale to jewelers and industrialists. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of December 32,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso;1 its external value is determined in the interbank market on the basis of supply and demand. On December 29, 1995, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was Mex$7.6425 per US$1. No limitations apply on access to ownership or transfer of foreign exchange. Forward and futures are available from authorized banks. In April 1995, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange started trading futures contracts on the peso. Mexico accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on November 12,1946. Administration of Control Effective November 11, 1991, all controls on exchange transactions were abolished. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Sec- retariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SEC- OFI). Foreign exchange policies are established by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) and the Bank of Mexico. Prescription of Currency In accordance with payments agreements with the central banks of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Para- guay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, payments to these countries may be made through the Bank of Mexico and the central banks of the countries concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Similar payment arrangements exist with the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salva- dor, Guatemala, Honduras, Malaysia, and Nicaragua. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Mexican banks are prohibited from receiving domestic currency deposits from foreign financial institutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except in cases where (1) such funds repre- sent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to the Mexican bank where the account is held; (2) the ]The Mexican new peso, equivalent to 1,000 old Mexican pesos, was introduced on J anu a ry 1,1993. On Janua ry 1,1996, the name of the currency was changed to Mexican peso. funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to other Mexican banks; (3) the funds represent the redemption, sale, or interest payments of securi- ties held in custody in the Mexican bank in which the account is held, only if the securities were bought with the proceeds from any of the transac- tions defined in (1) or (2); (4) the funds represent the counterpart of a peso futures contract concluded in a market recognized by the Bank of Mexico; and (5) when the transaction is authorized on a case-by- case basis by the Management of the Financial Sys- tem Regulations. Commercial banks are permitted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars payable in Mexico only for (1) residents in the northern border area of Mexico; (2) firms domiciled in any part of the country; and (3) official representatives of foreign governments and interna- tional organizations, and foreigners working in these institutions. Commercial banks are permitted to open in any part of the country time deposits denominated in U.S. dollars and payable only abroad for firms established in Mexico. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from SECOFI are required for only 149 of the 10,065 items on which Mexico's general import tariff is levied, except for temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export industries. On average, import licenses cover the applicant's import needs for nine months and may be extended for three months. Import needs are esti- mated at 20 percent above the amount of previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70 percent of earlier licenses have been effectively used. For some com- modities, "open-ended" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an over- all limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. The import tariff structure is based on the harmonized product description and coding system of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Imports from member countries of the LAIA and other Latin American countries are subject to preferential tariffs. A free-trade zone regime was in place until August 31,1995 for certain 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 319 regions of the country,2 including the newly estab- lished border zone with Guatemala. This regime allowed imports into these regions without customs tariffs as long as the imported goods were not similar to those produced domestically in the same regions. Since February 1992, Mexico has maintained bilateral free trade agreements with Bolivia and Chile, and since January 1995, with Costa Rica. Since January 1994, the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between Canada, Mex- ico, and the United States entered into effect. Since January 1995, Mexico has maintained a trilateral free trade agreement with Colombia and Venezuela. In 1994, SECOFI imposed an import tariff of 279 percent on bicycle tires and inner tubes, 181 percent on brass padlocks, and 144 percent on bicycles shipped from China. In October 1994, an import tariff of 28 percent was imposed on fish flour from Chile. In May 1995, a 35 percent import duty was imposed on clothing, footwear, and leather products in an effort to pro- mote the domestic industry. In June 1995, a provi- sional 29.3 percent anti-dumping duty was imposed on steel imports from the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. In August 1995, the following anti-dumping duties were imposed: 57.7 percent on corrugated rod from Brazil and 23.6 percent on doorknobs from the Peo- ple's Republic of China; and in October 1995, an 82.4 percent duty was imposed on seamless tubes and pipes from the United States. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The contracting of personal insurance policies abroad is not restricted, but casualty insurance policies intended to cover events that might take place in Mexico may be contracted only with Mexican com- panies, including subsidiaries of foreign insurance companies established in Mexico. Reinsurance may be contracted with foreign reinsurance companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Powdered milk was exempted from the licensing requirement in February 1995. Exports of a few specified items related to endangered species, drugs, and archaeo- logical pieces are prohibited. Under the Program for Integral Promotion of Exports (PROFIEX), a drawback system of import du ty payments by exporters and their domestic suppliers is in operation. 2These regions are the free-trade zones of Baja California, Baja California Sur, Quintana Roo, and the par t ial free-trade zone of Sonora. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the use of proceeds from invisibles. Capital Foreign direct investments are normally allowed up to 100 percent of equity without prior authoriza- tion, with certain exceptions: (1) Investments in the following sectors are reserved for the state: oil and other hydrocarbons; basic petrochemicals; electricity; nuclear energy generation; radioactive minerals; communication via satellite; telegraph; radiotelegra- phy; postal service; railroads; issue of paper money; minting of coins; and the control and supervision of ports, airports, and heliports. (2) Investments in the following sectors are reserved exclusively for Mexi- can nationals or Mexican corporations with a foreign exclusion clause: retail trade of gasoline and distribu- tion of liquified petroleum gas; radio and television broadcasting, with the exception of cable television; road transport (excluding courier and packaged goods transport services); credit unions and develop- ment banks; and certain professional and technical services. However, foreign investors wishing to invest in these activities may acquire shares in com- panies engaged in these sectors through the Neutral Investment Mechanism. (3) Investments in the fol- lowing sectors require prior authorization: acquisi- tion of more than 49 percent of the equity in a Mexican corporation if the total value of assets exceeds $25 million; maritime transport and certain port services; administration of air terminals; cellular telephones; construction activities, including the con- struction of pipelines for oil and its derivatives; oil and gas drilling; legal services; private education; credit information; securities rating institutions; and insurance agents. In order to obtain prior authoriza- tion, investors must submit their proposals to the National Commission of Foreign Investment. Approval is automatic if a formal response is not made within 45 working days of the date of applica- tion. In reaching its decision, the Commission takes into account the impact of investments on employ- ment and training of workers, the technological con- tribution, compliance with environmental provisions in relevant laws, and the contribution to the econ- omy. (4) Ceilings on foreign ownership are applied to the following sectors: financial institutions; air trans- portation; manufacturing of explosives and firearms; printing and publication of domestic newspapers; agricultural land; cable television and basic tele- phone services; video text and packet-switching ser- vices; and transportation by air and land, and certain activities related to maritime transport. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 MEXICO Upon registration with the Ministry of Foreign Relations, Mexican companies with foreign partici- pation may be allowed to own land for nonresiden- tial purposes in restricted border areas (within 100 kilometers) and seacoast areas (within 50 kilome- ters). The acquisition of land rights by foreigners for residential purposes in restricted areas must be effected through a renewable 50-year trust held by a Mexican bank and requires prior authorization from the Secretariat of Foreign Relations. There are no restrictions on portfolio investments. The liabilities of commercial banks denominated in foreign currencies must not exceed the larger amount of either (1) 10 percent plus an additional 4 percent of their liabilities in domestic currency, or (2) 1.6 times their net capital. Commercial banks must balance their positions subject to exchange rate risk on a daily basis. Short and long positions are accept- able as long as they do not exceed 15 percent of banks' net capital. Commercial banks must invest the resources from their liabilities in foreign currencies (1) in certain for- eign currencies and highly liquid foreign-currency- denominated assets, (2) in foreign currency loans to finance exports of merchandise and capital goods made in Mexico, or (3) in foreign currency loans granted to enterprises earning foreign currency rev- enues sufficient to cover their exchange risk. Gold Gold may be freely bought and sold in Mexico at the prevailing exchange rate. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 17. An over-the-counter market in forward and options in foreign exchange was introduced. April 25. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange started trading futures contracts in pesos. Imports and Import Payments May 30. An import duty of 35 percent was imposed on clothing, footwear, and leather products. June 12. A provisional anti-dumping duty of 29.3 percent was imposed on imports of steel from the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the former Soviet Union. August 11. An anti-dumping duty of 57.7 percent was imposed on corrugated rod from Brazil. August 14. An anti-dumping duty of 23.6 percent was imposed on imports of doorknobs from China. August 31. The free-trade zone regime for Baja California, Baja California Sur, Quintana Roo, and the partial free-trade zone of Sonora were abolished. October 11. An anti-dumping duty of 82.4 percent was imposed on imports of seamless tubes and pipes from the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Exports and Export Proceeds The currency of the Federated States of Micronesia is the U.S. Dollar.1 There is no central monetary insti- tution. A statutory banking board, established in 1980, regulates the financial system. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commer- cial banks, which buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in international markets. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Micronesia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 24,1993. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, but exporters must obtain an export business license. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. The purchasing and exporta- tion of copra are conducted solely by the Coconut Development Authority. Commercial export docu- ments are verified by the customs authorities. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Administration of Control There are no exchange control regulations.2 Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in U.S. currency or in any other convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to any import-licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Import duties are levied on an ad valorem or spe- cific basis, as follows: cigarettes, carbonated nonal- coholic beverages, drink mixes, drink preparations, coffee, tea, beer and malt beverages, and wines, 25 percent; spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages, US$10 a U.S. gallon; and gasoline and diesel fuel, US$0.05 a U.S. gallon. Ad valorem duties are 3 percent on foodstuffs, 100 percent on laundry bar soap, and 4 percent on all other products. Capital Foreign investors are regulated by federal and state authorities. They must obtain an application from the Federal Government and submit it for review and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in which the business will be located. They must obtain a license from the Federal Govern- ment to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a foreign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the Federal Government and submitted to the Federal Investment Board of the state in which the business will be located and oper- ated. Priorities for foreign investment are reviewed by the federal and state authorities from time to time. Although no special financial incentives are offered to foreign investors, a number of incentives are available under certain U.S. laws (e.g., duty-free access to the U.S. market for some products). For- eign investment in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accordance with laws prohib- iting land ownership by foreigners.3 Foreign inves- tors normally obtain long-term leases (usually up to 25 years with an option to renew for another 25 years) for land acquired for their business.4 There are no restrictions on the repatriation of profit or capital. l rThe Federated States of Micronesia must consult w i th the United States if it decides to issue its own currency. 2The Compact Agreement with the United States exempts the importation, use, possession, and exportation of U.S. currency by U.S. armed forces and U.S. contractors or personnel from any form of regulation, restriction, or control by the Federated States of Micronesia. 3Article XII, Section 4 of the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia prohibits a noncitizen, or a corporation not wholly owned by citizens, from acquiring title to land or waters in the country. 4Article XII, Section 5 of the Constitution prohibits "agreements for the use of land for an indef in i te period/' 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA Banks are prohibited from lending more than the equivalent of 50 percent of their deposits to nonresidents. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of the Republic of Moldova is the Moldovan Leu (plural Lei). The official exchange rate against the U.S. dollar is established in the fixing sessions at the Chisinau Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange (CIFCE). The official exchange rate applies to foreign exchange transactions carried out by the National Bank of Moldova, including official exter- nal debt service payments, and is used for account- ing and tax valuation purposes. Since February 1995, , CIFCE fixing sessions have been conducted daily. Institutions eligible to deal in foreign exchange are authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. The latter are authorized to purchase from and sell to residents and nonresidents foreign banknotes and traveler's checks in any currency. Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus may set their own buying and selling rates in their foreign exchange transactions. Enterprises engaging in importing activities may purchase foreign exchange through authorized banks. On December 31,1995, the official exchange rate was MDL 4.50 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the banking sector. Moldova accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 30,1995. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are governed by the Regulations on Currency Control in the Republic of Moldova, which came into effect on January 17, 1994. The National Bank has the ultimate authority in the area of foreign exchange arrangements and is responsible for managing the country's foreign exchange reserves, regulating the currency market, and granting licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements are made in convertible currencies and effected through commercial banks. The system of correspondent accounts in central banks that was used for certain settlements with the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union is now inoperative. Resident natural and juridical persons may open currency accounts, which they may use at their own discretion at authorized banks. Since November 15, 1994, the surrender requirement of convertible cur- rencies on residents' accounts was abolished. The source of foreign exchange is not subject to investi- gation. All foreign currency earnings of residents must be deposited in their accounts at authorized banks in Moldova. The opening of current and other accounts by Moldova residents in foreign banks abroad requires approval from the National Bank. Account holders may not use foreign exchange bal- ances in their accounts to settle domestic transactions. Nonresidents with foreign currency deposits at authorized banks in Moldova may freely transfer the balances abroad or sell them on the foreign exchange market through authorized banks. Nonresident entities with accounts in Moldovan lei received from current international operation with residents of Moldova may convert lei balances into any other currency and repatriate them. Imports and Exports A few products (medicine, medical equipment, chemicals, and industrial waste) are subject to import licenses for the purpose of protecting the consumer and ensuring compliance with domestic standards. Imports are subject to import tariffs and customs fees. The maximum tariff rate will be reduced to 20 percent, with a limited number of exceptions. The maximum rate is applied to con- sumer electronics, cars, tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, cocoa products, jewelry, and luxury fur- niture. Energy, medicine, medical equipment, raw materials, cereals, and baby food are exempt from tariffs. Exports of certain goods are subject to licenses in accordance with the regulations issued in August 21,1995. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 60 days from the day stipulated for the receipt of payment, but not later than 180 days from the issu- ance of the custom declaration or the day a bill, statement, or protocol confirming that services have been rendered or work done has been made. How- ever, the National Bank can extend the period for a valid reason. Proceeds from exports may be retained by exporters. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 MOLDOVA There are no taxes on exports to countries other than the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other coun- tries of the former Soviet Union, except for a cus- toms fee of 0.25 percent of the value of the shipment.1 Exports to the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are subject to excise taxes and VAT, as these taxes are assessed on the basis of the origin principle within the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may freely purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market. For travel abroad, residents may purchase foreign exchange up to $5,000 in the exchange market for each trip and take it abroad without additional authorization. Payments by resi- dent individuals in excess of $1,000 are subject to approval on a case-by-case basis under Moldovan law. All proceeds from invisibles, except the earnings of workers residing abroad, must be repatriated. Capital All capital transactions and credits obtained from nonresidents require specific approval from the National Bank. Loan agreements with nonresidents are required to be registered with the National Bank. Gold A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. Regulations governing domestic trade in gold are established by the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement June 30. Moldova accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Excise taxes on exports to countries other than the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union of unbottled wine and unprocessed tobacco were introduced in the 1996 budget law. They are expected to be eliminated by July 1, 1996. Imports and Exports August 21. A licensing requirement was intro- duced for exports of a range of goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of February 29,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mongolia is the Tugrik (100 Mongo per 1 Tugrik). The exchange rate is determined by demand and supply in the interbank exchange market. The Bank of Mongolia, the central bank, may intervene in the market to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. The central bank rate is set as the midpoint of the previous day's average buying and selling rates established by transactions among market participants. The central bank rate is applied to the public sector's transac- tions in imports and services, including debt-service payments, and to trade and service transactions con- ducted under bilateral payments arrangements. All other transactions, including sales of retained for- eign exchange by public sector enterprises, take place at the free market rate. On December 31,1995, the average (middle) rate in the interbank exchange market was Tug 476.1 per $1. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies concerned in inter- national markets. Mongolia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Febru- ary 1,1996. Administration of Control International transactions are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law of June 1, 1994. The Foreign Exchange Law provides the framework for a liberal exchange system where the exchange rate is set by the Bank of Mongolia, based on market rates, and the public is free to maintain accounts in foreign exchange with authorized banks and perform cur- rent and international capital transactions. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Mongolia notified the Fund on November 4, 1994, that restrictions had been imposed on certain transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia / Montenegro). Prescription of Currency basis under bilateral arrangements concluded before 1991. While some of the outstanding balances under the clearing arrangements of the former Interna- tional Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC) have been settled, others are still under negotiation. Under the inoperative bilateral trade arrangement, there are also outstanding balances with China, the Islamic State of Afghanistan, and the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Mongolia maintains a bilateral clearing agreement with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Resident Accounts Resident foreign exchange accounts. Resident per- sons and enterprises may maintain foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks. They may credit these accounts with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may use the balances on the accounts for any purpose without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports are free of quantitative restrictions, except for the ban on the export of raw cashmere and for bona fide environmental, health, and security reasons. Imports of drugs, materials that encourage or depict violence or pornography, and items that could cause environmental damage are banned. Trade in the following items requires a special permit: historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonfer- rous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. Exporters are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange earnings. Exporters may use their foreign exchange earnings for any purpose, including sale in the foreign exchange market or deposit in a foreign exchange account. Imports are subject to a uniform 15 percent cus- toms duty. Machinery and equipment imported by joint ventures and equipment used by disabled peo- ple are exempt from the customs duty. Trade with all countries is conducted at world prices in convertible currencies. Trade with certain members of the former Council for Mutual Eco- nomic Assistance (CMEA) is conducted on an ad hoc Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments for invisibles is not provided at the official exchange rate but may be purchased without restriction on the interbank 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 326 MONGOLIA exchange market. Remittances of dividends and profits from investments in convertible currencies are permitted under the Law on Foreign Investment of May 1990 (see section on Capital, below). Pro- ceeds from invisibles may be sold in the interbank exchange market without restriction. The importa- tion and exportation of domestic banknotes are pro- hibited. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes residents or nonresidents may import or export. Capital Foreign direct investment by private corporations is encouraged. The Law on Foreign Investment of July 1993 has codified the procedures for establish- ing foreign firms in Mongolia and provides certain guarantees and privileges to foreign investors. Among its provisions are that these firms will not be nationalized and that foreign investors will have the right to dispose of their assets. Transfers of profits abroad are not restricted. The maximum rate of profit tax is 40 percent, and foreign investors are exempt from the tax for various periods (from three to ten years), depending on the sector and export performance. In addition, the law stipulates that entities with foreign participation may export at world prices or other agreed prices, and they may import or export directly or in cooperation with for- eign trade enterprises. The law particularly encour- ages investment in export promotion, projects using advanced technology, and the exploitation of natural resources. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement May 31. The Bank of Mongolia reduced the maxi- mum permissible spread between commercial banks' buying and selling rates to 3 percent from 5 percent. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement February 1. Mongolia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. Bank Al-Maghrib fixes a daily rate for the French franc on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distri- bution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. Rates for most other cur- rencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On December 29,1995, the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 1.73028. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was DH 8.4689 per $1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in Bank Al-Maghrib, but authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each separate cur- rency. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to Bank Al-Maghrib the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by Bank Al-Maghrib. Clearing operations between banks are not permit- ted; thus, no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. Bank Al-Maghrib also establishes buying and selling rates for transactions by travelers in banknotes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit denominated in convertible currencies (those listed in footnote 1 and French francs, but excluding Alge- rian dinars, Libyan dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya, Tunisian dinars, and Gibraltar pounds). The autho- rized banks sell their excess holdings of banknotes to Bank Al-Maghrib, where they also replenish them when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility is avail- able for exports and imports of items benefiting from special customs arrangements. Forward con- tracts for the purchase or sale of foreign exchange that have been concluded between banks and their customers result in reverse contracts between the banks and Bank Al-Maghrib. They may be con- Algerian dinars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, Gibraltar pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Libyan dinars, Maur i tan ian ouguiya, Neth- erlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. eluded in any foreign currency quoted by Bank Al- Maghrib for maturity periods ranging from a mini- mum of 1 month to a maximum of 12 months. The guaranteed exchange rate corresponds to the spot exchange rate, against the payment of a commission of 2 percent per year, of which a share amounting to 0.25 percent is retained by authorized banks. Provi- sions are made for extending contract terms, revis- ing contracts in part, or canceling them in whole or in part. Arbitrage operations may be executed freely in favor of nonresident customers. Morocco accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Janu- ary 21,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance and Foreign Investment. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Imports not involving payment do not require authorization. Part of the Port of Tangier is designated a free trade zone. The zone and offshore banks located there are exempt from customs, exchange, and foreign trade controls. During 1995, payments restrictions for security reasons were imposed against Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) pursu- ant to UN resolutions; these were never communi- cated to the Board. Prescription of Currency Payments between Morocco and the rest of the world may be made in any currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib (see footnote 1) or through foreign accounts in convertible dirhams or foreign currency accounts opened in Moroccan banks. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The following accounts may be opened and oper- ated by nonresidents. Foreign currency accounts in the name of foreign nationals may be maintained by natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality, who are either resi- dents or nonresidents. These accounts may be freely 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 MOROCCO credited with transfers from abroad with foreign banknotes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency and with foreign currency withdrawn from Bank Al- Maghrib, following general or special authorization from the Exchange Office. They may be freely deb- ited for transfers abroad in favor of the account holder or to a foreign third party, for the surrender of foreign currency to Bank Al-Maghrib and for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. Foreign currency accounts in the name of Moroccan residents living abroad may be opened by individuals of Moroccan nationality residing abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with transfers from abroad, checks or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, foreign currency withdrawn from Bank Al-Maghrib following gen- eral or special authorization from the Exchange Office, the return on investments effected on the basis of these accounts, and transfers from another foreign currency account or from an account in con- vertible dirhams. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad, transfers to another account in for- eign currency or in convertible dirhams, foreign cur- rency subscriptions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, and for surrender of foreign cur- rency to Bank Al-Maghrib. foreign currency accounts of exporters may be opened freely by Moroccan exporters of goods and services who are already holders of convertible accounts for export promotion. Those who do not hold such an account must have the prior consent of the Exchange Office. These accounts may be freely credited with 20 percent of foreign exchange receipts. The recording of foreign currency amounts corresponding to these rates must be effected simul- taneously with the surrender to Bank Al-Maghrib of the remaining 80 percent. These accounts may also be credited freely with the return on invested funds lodged therein and with transfers from another for- eign currency account of the same holder. They may be debited for professional expenses covered by exchange regulations, investment with authorized intermediary banks, subscriptions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, for credit of another for- eign currency account or a convertible dirham account for exporters (CCPEX) opened in the name of the same holder, and for surrender of foreign cur- rency to Bank Al-Maghrib. foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be opened by natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality who may be residents or nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with gener- ally or specifically authorized transfers in favor of the account holder and with dirhams obtained from the sale to Bank Al-Maghrib of foreign exchange, including banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases of foreign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib. Transfers between foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be made freely, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards to settle their bills in Morocco and abroad. Convertible dirham accounts may be freely opened in the name of nonresident Moroccans residing abroad. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible currencies, including banknotes, to Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) transfers autho- rized by the Exchange Office; (3) payments of inter- est accrued on these accounts; (4) transfers from foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (5) transfers from term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from Bank Al- Maghrib; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) transfers to foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in con- vertible dirham accounts. These accounts may also be debited freely, either for the benefit of the account holder or for other nonresidents, and for the pur- chase of foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, or other foreign currency-denominated means of payment. Convertible dirham accounts for exporters may be opened by exporters of goods or services with Moroccan banks. These accounts may be credited with the equivalent of 20 percent of the foreign cur- rency repatriated and surrendered to Bank Al- Maghrib in the case of exporters of goods or 10 percent in the case of exporters of services. Bal- ances on these accounts may be used to finance expenditure contracted abroad and linked to the professional activity of those concerned. Fishing companies may credit to these accounts up to 100 percent of the foreign currency repatriated. Exporters have the choice of maintaining either for- eign currency accounts or convertible dirham accounts. They may also hold both accounts simulta- neously, provided that the overall percentage of export earnings to be credited to both accounts does not exceed 20 percent of foreign exchange earnings. Convertible term accounts are designed to attract funds from nonresident foreigners who are not enti- tled to guaranteed transfers. These funds may be transferred henceforth within a maximum period of five years. The holders of such accounts may use the available funds, without prior authorization from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 329 the Exchange Office, to fund investments in Morocco, buy treasury bonds, purchase Moroccan marketable securities, settle expenses incurred in Morocco and, in the case of foreign corporations, provide their Moroccan subsidiaries with current account advances. They may also freely transfer the balances to resident or nonresident foreigners or to Moroccan nationals residing abroad. The beneficia- ries of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by foreign companies shooting films in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences under certain conditions; and to finance up to 50 percent of an investor's participation in investments in Morocco (the remainder must be financed with funds transferred from abroad). Funds invested with the proceeds of convertible term accounts may be transferred abroad without restriction in the event of liquidation or transfer, except for certain categories that are subject to a three-year waiting period. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to restriction unless goods that require import licenses are included in the list. The list includes sugar, edible oil, cereals and prod- ucts derived from these, arms, explosives, and cer- tain vehicles.2 Imports of petroleum products were liberalized in early 1995. In addition, imports of products that affect public security, morale, and health may be prohibited. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for imports must be taken out with insurance companies in Morocco. However, for a limited group of goods, insurance policies may be underwritten abroad; this group includes externally funded imports, if the financing terms include foreign insurance; capital goods and equipment under turnkey contracts or duly autho- rized investment programs; crude and diesel oil; gas; cattle; and wood. For all imports, the importer must subscribe to a security —an import license —that must be lodged with an authorized bank, which may make pay- ments related to goods and incidental costs upon submission of the required documents. Special pro- cedures are applicable to specified imports financed with foreign aid or loans. Imports used for the pro- duction of export goods may be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter within the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan commercial banks are autho- 2Quantitative restrictions on imports of sugar, cereals (and products derived from cereals), and edible oil are planned to be replaced by ta r i f fs in early 1996. rized to contract with their foreign correspondents. Moroccan commercial banks may make advance payments abroad for imports of capital goods up to 25 percent of the f.o.b. value of the goods. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis, their maximum and minimum rates are 35 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively, except for a limited number of agricultural goods. Consumer goods not produced in Morocco are subject to a 5 percent levy. In addition to regular customs duties, fiscal levies of 10 percent, 12.5 percent, or 15 percent ad valorem are levied, according to the category of goods. Imports used to manufacture goods for export are exempt from customs duties and other import restrictions under the temporary admission scheme. Preferential customs tariff treatments are also granted for imports of capital goods to enterprises in the tourist and shipping sectors and other industrial enterprises qualifying under the provisions of Morocco's Industrial Investment Code. Imports of a relatively small number of items representing about 8 percent of industrial production are subject to min- imum import prices (reference prices) for antidump- ing or safeguarding purposes. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are permitted to make pay- ments and settle expenses incidental to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or export documents without authorization from the Exchange Office. Moroccan enterprises are permit- ted to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by their foreign managers and nonresident foreigners working for or on behalf of these enterprises. Foreigners residing in Morocco and employed in either the private or public sector or engaged in pro- fessions in industry, commerce, and agriculture may transfer up to 50 percent of their income, whether or not their spouses reside in Morocco. Retired persons and foreign spouses of Moroccans have the same entitlement; they may also freely contribute to their retirement or social security funds in their country of origin. Commercial banks are authorized to provide Moroccan residents with a travel allowance in for- eign exchange equivalent to a maximum of DH 5,000 a person a year without Exchange Office approval. This allowance may be increased by DH 1,500 for a minor child on the passport of the beneficiary parent and accompanying said parent at the time of travel abroad. The same allocation may also be granted to Moroccan residents living abroad upon their return to their country of residence at the end of their stay in Morocco, provided they have not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 330 MOROCCO benefited from the 15 percent allocation on remit- tances effected 12 months previously up to a limit of DH 20,000. Residents of foreign nationality who wish to travel abroad may be granted foreign exchange equivalent to all of their savings from income. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be financed without restriction by deb- iting convertible export promotion accounts or for- eign currency accounts maintained with Moroccan banks. In the case of business travel allowances for others, annual foreign exchange allowances are approved by the Exchange Office on the basis of need, with a daily maximum limit of DH 2,000. These banks have been empowered to provide advance allowances of up to DH 40,000 to small and medium-size enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by individuals not belonging to either of these categories. In all cases, business travel allowances may be added to allowances for tourist travel. A foreign exchange allocation equivalent to a maximum of DH 2,000 a month may be granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher education for a child studying abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to persons traveling abroad for medical treatment up to the equivalent of DH 20,000 and to make transfers on their behalf for treatment abroad in favor of hospitals and medical institutions con- cerned. They are also authorized to transfer retire- ment pensions provided by public and private agencies in favor of persons residing abroad permanently. Deep-sea fishing companies may maintain con- vertible dirham or foreign currency accounts with Moroccan banks. Convertible dirham accounts may be credited with the full dirham equivalent of for- eign exchange earnings, and foreign currency accounts may be credited with 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings. The operating expenses of these companies, including travel expenses of employees, may be financed from these accounts. Foreign air- lines operating in Morocco may transfer, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, any surplus revenue from the proceeds of ticket sales, excess baggage, and air freight. Transfers with respect to sea and road transportation may be made directly to authorized banks. Moroccan film distribution companies may trans- fer to foreign film producers or distributors user fees and other additional expenses related to the show- ing of these films in Morocco. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to individuals studying abroad without prior Exchange Office authorization as follows: (1) an annual installation allowance equivalent to DH 10,000 and the same amount for a person accom- panying a minor student leaving Morocco for the first time; (2) school fees to foreign academic institu- tions, upon submission of documentary evidence and without limit; and (3) a monthly allowance for living expenses amounting to the equivalent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscholarship holders and DH 4,000 for scholarship holders. In addition to these facilities, banks are authorized to effect the transfer of rent and corresponding charges in favor of the foreign landlord once the student or his or her legal guardian has submitted a properly drawn-up lease and a certificate of residence or any other equivalent document. Applications for additional amounts must be referred to the Exchange Office for approval, which is granted on proof of need. Transfers relating to remittances for family main- tenance are approved upon presentation of docu- mentary evidence. Visitors to Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange against presentation of exchange certificate(s) up to the amount remaining from the original conversion of foreign exchange into dirhams. The exportation of domestic banknotes is pro- hibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Goods may be exported freely, with the exception of flour, charcoal, certain animals, plants, and archaeological items, which are subject to authoriza- tion. However, for phosphates, the Cherifien Phos- phate Office (OCP) has an export monopoly. Mineral products are subject to an ad valorem export tax of 0.5 percent, except for hydrocarbons, for which the tax is 5 percent, and phosphates, for which a tax on phosphate exploration equivalent to DH 34 per ton of gross phosphates has been levied since 1992. A 1 percent quality control tax is levied on exports of foodstuffs. All exporters must sign a guarantee to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The for- eign exchange must be surrendered within one month of the date of payment by foreign buyers specified in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be more than 150 days from the date of arrival of the merchandise. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business condi- tions and approved by the Exchange Office. Export proceeds collected abroad may be used directly abroad to finance imports of goods and raw materi- als of goods for export. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 331 Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality, including indi- viduals and corporations, must repatriate foreign exchange receipts accruing from all their noncom- mercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommer- cial receipts only if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Moroccans working abroad must surrender within one month all foreign exchange in their possession, but on departure from Morocco, they may export without restriction for- eign banknotes obtained by debiting their accounts in convertible dirhams. If they do not have such an account, they may take out 15 percent of foreign exchange repatriated and surrendered 12 months before to Moroccan banks up to a limit of DH 20,000. If these facilities are not available, Moroccan resi- dents living abroad may take advantage of the same DH 5,000 tourist allocation that applies to residents. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers may also bring in foreign banknotes in any amount, as well as any other means of payment in foreign exchange but must surrender them within 30 days of their return to Morocco. The importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Capital The industrial investment code of February 1983 provides for full foreign ownership of Moroccan companies in certain sectors and eases the repatria- tion of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incen- tives for foreign investment. In addition, an investment code introduced for the tourist sector in August 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and foreign investors and provides for fu ll repatriation of tourist-related after-tax profits, with- out any time restriction. All types of investment are permitted without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, includ- ing (1) participation in the equity capital of a com- pany being established; (2) subscription to the capital increase of an existing company; (3) purchases of Moroccan securities; (4) contributions to partner- ships; (5) purchases of real property; (6) self-financ- ing construction projects; (7) establishment or purchase of a sole proprietorship; and (8) operations to increase capital through the capitalization of reserves, carryovers, or reserve provisions that have become available or through the consolidation of partnership current accounts. Operations involving transfers of investment ownership between foreign- ers do not require the authorization of the Exchange Office. In September 1992, foreign corporations, resident or nonresident foreign individuals, and Moroccans residing abroad were permitted to invest freely in Morocco; to remit the income thus generated directly to the banking system with no restriction on amounts or time; and to repatriate the proceeds of the liquidation or sale of such investment, including any profits, also without prior authorization. Such investment must be financed in foreign exchange or by a similar method such as capitalization of reserves and profits, contributions in kind, consoli- dation of trade claims, or use of assets in convertible term accounts. The holders of convertible term accounts may freely use funds in these accounts for the following purposes: financing investment operations in Morocco in all sectors of economic activity, regard- less of the kind of investment; purchasing treasury bonds under the existing laws; effecting current account advances from foreign corporations to their subsidiaries in Morocco and any other placements the account holder may make; acquiring transferable securities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; settling living expenses and any other expenses in dirhams in Morocco incurred by account holders or their spouses, direct ancestors, and direct descen- dants (in the case of individuals) or by duly desig- nated agents (in the case of corporations) with no limits on the amount; and paying duties and taxes due in Morocco by account holders. Furthermore, the original holders of convertible term accounts may freely transfer funds from their accounts to res- ident or nonresident foreigners or to nonresident Moroccan nationals. The above-mentioned purchas- ers may use the funds (1) to cover all dirham expenses incurred in Morocco by foreign film pro- duction companies for shooting films in Morocco; (2) to purchase secondary residences (provided they are located in a tourist development area for the buyers' personal use); (3) to finance up to 50 percent of capital increases of subsidiaries of foreign corpo- rations established in Morocco, provided that the rest is financed with foreign exchange transferred from abroad; and (4) to partially finance investment operations in Morocco in all sectors, regardless of the form of investment (in this case, financing of investment with debiting of convertible term account is allowed to cover only up to 50 percent of the investment, provided that the remaining 50 percent is financed with foreign exchange trans- ferred from abroad). External financing operations by Moroccan enter- prises in respect of external credit facilities, pur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 MOROCCO chaser or supplier credits, export financing credits, advances on partnership current accounts, and refi- nancing operations have been liberalized. Authority has been delegated to the banks to remit maturities due under these financing operations in principal, interest, and any applicable charges. Transfers of capital by foreigners leaving the coun- try permanently are limited to DH 25,000 for each year spent in Morocco. Moroccan nationals residing in the country and corporations established in Morocco may invest abroad with the authorization of the Exchange Office. However, they are required to remit the income generated by their investments and, as appropriate, the proceeds from liquidation of their investments. Gold Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment pur- poses. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization from the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes Administration. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots. The quota is then allo- cated among jewelers and industrial users of pre- cious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes During 1995 Resident and Nonresident Accounts July 12. The requirement of a minimum initial deposit for the opening of a foreign currency account by Moroccan residents living abroad was eliminated. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Licensing requirements for imports of petroleum products were eliminated, and price con- trols on such products were replaced by a revised taxation of imports of petroleum products, effec- tively linking retail prices to world market prices. (These reforms followed the privatization of the dis- tribution sector during 1994.) July 12. The amount of foreign exchange receipts that could be retained by exporters of goods or ser- vices was raised to 20 percent of receipts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mozambique is the Metical (plu- ral Meticais), the external value of which is deter- mined by supply and demand in the exchange market. On December 31,1995, the average central bank exchange rate of the metical in terms of the U.S. dollar was Mt 10,776.00 per $1, and the average exchange rate of the metical in the secondary market in terms of the U.S. dollar was Mt 10,890.00 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policy and control are under the administration of the Bank of Mozambique. Imports and exports are authorized through licenses issued for statistical purposes by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Mozambique does not maintain any prescription of currency requirements. All bilateral payment agreements were eliminated in 1995. Nonresident Accounts Foreigners residing in Mozambique may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange at autho- rized banks. Nonresidents may open domestic cur- rency accounts to meet local expenses, provided that the funds come either from the conversion of foreign currency or from employment and technical assis- tance contracts approved by appropriate institu- tions. Outward transfers of funds from these accounts are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports exceeding the equivalent of $500 are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce; licenses are provided routinely. The license specifies, among other things, the place of embarkation or dis- embarkation of the goods, the amount and currency of payment, and the source of financing. A negative product list exists for imports financed by donors' funds. In order to ensure that donors' requirements are met, the Office for the Coordination of Import Programs reviews import requests. Tied import sup- port funds are allocated by the Bank of Mozambique to the commercial banks. Individuals may import goods up to the equivalent of $500 without an import license if the goods are financed with their own foreign exchange resources and tied-aid funds are not involved. Preshipment inspection is required for all imports in excess of $2,500, with the exception of usual items such as perishable commodities and imports for personal needs of diplomats. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to $5,000 to individuals for the pay- ment of expenses associated with travel, study, or medical treatment abroad, as well as for film rental, expenses for fairs and exhibitions, contributions to international organizations, and subscriptions to publications. Operations exceeding this amount, or for other purposes, are subject to licensing by the Bank of Mozambique. Each ministry is subject to a ceiling on foreign exchange for official business and educational travel expenses. Foreign experts work- ing in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of their salaries, depending on the terms of their employment contracts. Nonresidents may export foreign banknotes up to the amount they declared on entry. Exports and re-imports of domestic cur- rency are prohibited. An airport fee equivalent to $10-$20 in foreign currency is levied by the airport authorities on international departures, depending on the destination. Remittances of profit and dividends from foreign direct investment may be made in accordance with the specific project authorization. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to a license. All export pro- ceeds must be collected through the commercial banks and may be sold in the secondary exchange market. Since March 1, 1995, the surrender require- ment has been reduced to 35 percent of the proceeds. Surrender requirements do not apply to free trade zones. Companies that export more than 85 percent of their production qualify for the status of free trade zone. On December 31,1994, the general export duty of 0.5 percent was suspended for a period of five years. In 1995, the ban on exports of raw cashew 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 MOZAMBIQUE nuts was suspended and an export duty of 20 per- cent was imposed on these exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks and other financial institutions may hold a limited amount of foreign exchange. Certain Mozambican nationals working abroad under officially arranged contracts are obliged to remit 60 percent of their earnings through the Bank of Mozambique and to convert them into meticais. Capital The Government and the Bank of Mozambique are authorized to borrow abroad. Public and private enterprises need approval from the Bank of Mozam- bique to borrow abroad if loans are guaranteed by the Government or domestic banks. Such borrowing is not allowed if maturity, including the grace period, is 12 years or less. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the Bank of Mozambique. The Foreign Direct Investment Law, approved on June 8,1994, aims at encouraging foreign invest- ments owned fully by foreign interests or jointly with Mozambican enterprises. The law guarantees investors the right to repatriate capital and transfer abroad a portion of profits. The incentives for for- eign investments include tax and customs exemp- tions for specified periods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign investment proposals are processed by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office. Gold The marketing and exportation of gold are regu- lated by Decree No. 11/81 of July 25,1981. The Bank of Mozambique is responsible for enforcing this decree. The importation of gold and other precious metals is governed by special regulations. Changes During 1995 Nonresident Accounts March 2. Nonresidents were allowed to open domestic currency accounts to meet local expenses, provided that the funds come either from the con- version of foreign currency or from employment and technical assistance contracts approved by appropri- ate institutions. Outward transfers of funds from these accounts are prohibited. Payments for Invisibles February 28. Commercial banks were authorized to sell foreign exchange up to $5,000 to individuals for the payment of expenses associated with travel, study, or medical treatment abroad, as well as for film rental, expenses for fairs and exhibitions, contri- butions to international organizations, and subscrip- tions to publications. Operations exceeding this amount, or for other purposes, are subject to licens- ing by the Bank of Mozambique. Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. The surrender requirement was reduced to 35 percent of the proceeds. Surrender require- ments do not apply to free trade zones. Companies that export more than 85 percent of their production qualify for the status of free trade zone. June 1. The ban on exports of raw cashew nuts was suspended and an export duty of 20 percent was imposed on these exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar Kyat, which is officially pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1. Myanmar applies margins of 2 percent to spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat- SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calcu- lations of the value of these currencies against the SDR, as are rates for the currencies of some member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (i.e., the Bangladesh taka, the Indian rupee, the Iranian rial, the Nepalese rupee, the Pakistan rupee, and the Sri Lanka rupee). On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 5.8445 and K 5.9614, respectively, per $1. The buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, the Neth- erlands guilder, and the Singapore dollar are deter- mined daily on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market, and the buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the appropriate cross rates published in the Asian Wall Street Journal or the London Financial Times. Foreign exchange certificates (FECs) are issued by the Central Bank of Myanmar through authorized dealers and licensed FEC changers. Authorized dealers may buy FECs from the Central Bank at a discount of 5 percent. FECs are widely used and serve the needs of both visitors and investors in Myanmar. FECs may also be purchased or sold for kyats at a market-determined rate at a new exchange center in Yangon. Holders of FECs may convert them into foreign exchange at a licensed foreign exchange bank; for private individuals, banks collect a 10 percent service charge for these transactions. An unofficial parallel market for foreign exchange exists. The rates in this market (about K 125 per $1) have been relatively stable in recent months. Hold- ers of FECs may convert them into foreign exchange at a licensed foreign exchange bank; for private indi- viduals, banks collect a 10 percent service charge for these transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank in accordance with instructions from the Min- istry of Finance and Revenue. A Foreign Exchange Control Board headed by the Deputy Prime Minister allocates foreign exchange for the public sector. Arrears are maintained with respect to external pay- ments for the debt service of the central Government. Prescription of Currency Settlements with member countries of the ACU are made in the currency of the member country through the ACU mechanisms. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an external account in Myanmar. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an external account in Myanmar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Accounts in kyats held by nonresidents are desig- nated nonresident accounts; all debits and credits require prior authorization. Foreign currency accounts of foreign diplomatic missions and interna- tional organizations and their home-based person- nel may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank or the Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank. Other foreign residents may open foreign cur- rency accounts with any bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Transfers of funds between these accounts are permitted. Both residents and nonresi- dents are allowed to purchase FECs with foreign exchange earned from legal sources and may open foreign currency accounts subject to a 10 percent bank charge. In addition to the use of FECs, the following regu- lations apply to the operation of foreign currency accounts by residents: Foreign currency accounts of national firms. Private exporters who are registered with the Ministry of Trade may retain 100 percent of their merchandise export proceeds. Also for border trade, exporters are allowed to retain 100 percent of their earnings. How- ever, 5 percent and 10 percent of proceeds from exports of goods and services and receipts from remittances must be paid as commercial tax and 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 MYANMAR income tax, respectively. Exporters may open for- eign currency accounts with their earnings at either the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, the Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank, or private domestic banks, which are permitted to conduct for- eign exchange business. Account holders are allowed to import under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade on the basis of letters of credit or on a collection basis. Foreign currency accounts of national individuals. Foreign currency accounts may be opened in U.S. dollars only by Myahmar nationals who are: (1) returning from abroad after completing their assign- ments; (2) working abroad with foreign firms under official permits; (3) seamen working with foreign shipping lines under existing regulations; (4) work- ing with the United Nations and its affiliated organi- zations; (5) service personnel of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs performing their duties with Myan- mar embassies abroad; (6) receiving pensions in for- eign currency after serving with foreign governments or international organizations; (7) receiving foreign exchange for services rendered to foreign individuals, foreign organizations and firms, or foreign governments; (8) receiving their pay in foreign currency abroad for services rendered as agents to foreign firms; (9) receiving rentals in for- eign currency for their tangible and intangible assets; (10) receiving foreign currency from an inher- itance; (11) receiving foreign currency in compensa- tion from a foreign firm or insurance company for the death or disability of a family member while serving with a foreign firm; (12) receiving foreign currency in the form of gifts from relatives or friends living abroad; and (13) holding the equivalent of at least $100 in FECs. With prior approval, account holders may use funds from their accounts to purchase air tickets for family visits abroad and to make payments for per- sonal imports, for examination fees for their chil- dren, and for medical treatment abroad. Transfers of balances between accounts are permitted, with prior authorization. foreign currency accounts of joint ventures and foreign participants. Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Investment Law enacted on November 30,1988, eco- nomic organizations formed with permits issued by the Union of Myanmar Investment Commission (MIC) and foreigners employed by these economic organizations are required to open both a foreign currency account and a kyat account. The following may be transferred abroad through a bank with the approval of the Central Bank: (1) foreign currency belonging to the person who brought in foreign cap- ital for investment in Myanmar in accordance with regulations stipulated by the MIC; (2) net profits remaining after all taxes and prescribed funds have been deducted from the annual profits received by the person who brought in foreign capital; and (3) balances of salary and lawful income earned by the foreign person for services performed in the state and remaining after payment of taxes and deduction of living expenses incurred by him or her and family members. Imports and Import Payments Import trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplo- matic relations. There are currently 22 bands of import tariffs, ranging from zero to 500 percent. Import tariffs are assessed on the basis of the official exchange rate. Agricultural implements, raw materi- als, and other essential imports are taxed at very low rates, while the highest rate is applied to luxury items. There is a long list of exemptions from cus- toms duties, and the Ministry of Finance and Reve- nue is empowered to grant exemptions on a case-by- case basis. Certain items, such as opium and other narcotics, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion, may not be imported from any source. An import program for the public sector is pre- pared annually as part of the foreign exchange bud- get drawn up jointly by the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development and the Min- istry of Finance and Revenue. Some public sector imports are made outside the foreign exchange bud- get with revolving funds. All imports involving use of official foreign exchange are handled by the pub- lic sector through the ministries. With a few excep- tions, private sector imports require import licenses for each transaction and are largely financed from the importer's foreign currency account. Import licenses may be obtained for priority items (List A), nonpriority items (List B), and "ordinary" items. An importer wishing to import items on List B or ordi- nary items is generally required to import goods on List A at a value equivalent to 50 percent and 25 per- cent, respectively, of the values of goods on List B and of ordinary items. On a case-by-case basis, joint ventures with private interest may be granted open general licenses and are exempt from these require- ments. Private importers must register at the Minis- try of Trade as importers and renew their licenses annually. State economic enterprises may import goods for their own use and for resale with open general licenses, whereas government departments may import only for their own use. Imports by gov- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 337 ernment departments are exempted from prescribed fees but those by the private sector are not. Most imports are effected on an f.o.b. basis, and ship- ments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Myanmar Five-Star Shipping Line whenever possible. All payments for imports not originating from border trade are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, the Myanma Investment and Commer- cial Bank, and private domestic banks permitted to conduct foreign exchange business. State economic enterprises obtain foreign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, within the approved foreign exchange budget, after receiving endorsement from the respective ministries. Border imports require permits. Payments for bor- der imports may be effected directly from the pro- ceeds from border exports. Exporters of agricultural, forestry, and fisheries products are encouraged to import up to the equivalent of 25 percent of the export value of selected items that will contribute to the production in these sectors (Ministry of Trade Press Communique No. 5/91, dated July 12,1991). Myanmar nationals who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make unlimited payments for personal imports with the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad under official permits who have not yet opened for- eign currency accounts may make payments on their personal imports out of their accumulated savings of legitimate funds. Myanmar nationals and other trav- elers may bring in a reasonable amount of personal and other classified goods when they enter the country. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles outside the public sec- tor are subject to approval and are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees and tuition abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals require prior permis- sion from the Central Bank. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government; the limit is one- half of the net salary if the spouse is living abroad and one-third of the net salary if the spouse is living in Myanmar. Outward remittances of insurance pre- mium payments other than for Myanma Insurance are not permitted. The remittance of pension pay- ments to retired government employees is permitted only if the persons concerned have been nonnation- als throughout their term of service and are now residing in their native countries. Personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Residents who have been granted an official per- mit to travel abroad are allowed to exchange $50 from the state's foreign exchange with their own domestic currency and also the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar within six months of arriving may take out any balance of for- eign currency they brought in with them and may also reconvert the remaining balance of thekya ts obtained through conversion of foreign currency, including FECs purchased in excess of the minimum required purchase of $300. The exportation of Myan- mar currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except those under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. Export taxes are levied on a small number of goods at both ad valorem and specific rates: an ad valorem duty rate of 5 percent is levied on oil cakes, pulses and cereals, and raw hides and skins; a spe- cific duty rate of 10 kyats per metric ton is levied on all varieties of rice. In practice, state agencies responsible for produc- tion may export any product in excess of what is needed for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. The state eco- nomic enterprises have a monopoly on the exporta- tion of rice, teak, petroleum and natural gas, pearls, jade, and precious stones and metals. The exporta- tion of these products and other controlled items by foreign or domestic firms in the private sector may be permitted. Rice is exported by the Myanma Agri- cultural Produce Trading through the Myanma Export-Import Services; private traders and cooper- atives are also permitted to export a number of beans and pulses, rattan, flour, and cut flowers under valid export permits issued by the Ministry of Trade. Border trade of certain products, including rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, some beans and pulses, maize, cotton, and groundnuts, is not permitted. Export proceeds must be obtained in accordance with existing foreign exchange management regula- tions. An export-retention scheme is in operation, under which 100 percent of foreign exchange pro- ceeds from merchandise exports and 90 percent of proceeds from most invisible exports may be retained by exporters. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 MYANMAR exports made on a c.i.f. basis must be shipped by the Myanmar Five-Star Shipping Line or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Ten percent of exchange receipts from invisibles must be paid as income tax unless the exchange con- trol authorities grant a special waiver. Travelers may bring in foreign currency up to $2,000 or its equiva- lent without any declaration. Tourists arriving in Myanmar are required to purchase foreign exchange certificates equivalent to a minimum value of $300, but amounts in excess of this minimum may be reconverted into foreign exchange at departure. The importation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Myanmar nationals working abroad with permis- sion from the Government are required to pay an income tax at the rate of 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. Myanmar seamen serving abroad and Myanmar nationals working abroad under their own arrangements must pay as income tax 10 percent of their gross earnings. Myan- mar nationals working abroad in UN organizations are not required to pay income tax. Myanmar nationals working abroad in private organizations are required to transfer to Myanmar as tax 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange through embassies in their country of residence. Capital Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Investment Law of 1988, the Myanmar Investment Commission is empowered to accept proposals for investment in Myanmar from foreigners for full ownership and under joint venture, with the share of foreign capital representing at least 35 percent of the total capital. To facilitate and promote foreign investment, the commission may grant exemption from customs duties and other internal taxes on machinery and equipment imported during construction of the project, spare parts used in business, and raw mate- rials imported for the first three years of commercial production, as well as exemption from the income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years, including the year when production of goods and services began, or for longer than three years, depending upon the profitability of the enterprise. Furthermore, accelerated depreciation allowances may be granted. Types of economic activity and the sectors open to foreign investment are specified in a detailed positive list. The Government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit will not be nation- alized during the term of the contract or during an extended term. In accordance with existing rules and regulations, repatriation of profits is allowed through banks after payment of taxes and prescribed funds. Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Myanmar. Imports and exports of gold are not allowed for the private sector. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declara- tion at the port of arrival. Personal jewelry of pre- scribed value is permitted to be taken out, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be brought back to the country. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement December 8. Ten agencies were authorized to trade FECs in exchange for local currency at a new exchange center in Yangon at a market-determined rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Namibia is the Namibia Dollar. The Namibia dollar is pegged at par to the South African rand, which is also legal tender. The exchange rates of the Namibia dollar against other currencies are determined on the basis of cross rates of the South African rand against the currencies con- cerned in international markets. On December 31, 1995, the exchange rate of the Namibia dollar against the U.S. dollar was N$l per US$0.2742. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct spot and forward exchange operations, including for- ward cover, with residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and nontrade transac- tions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments and accruals. Forward cover is also provided to nonresi- dents, subject to certain limitations. Forward cover is provided in U.S. dollars only and is available to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of swap transactions involving Namibia dollars (South African rand) and U.S. dollars with a margin based on an interest rate differential between the two currencies. Special for- ward cover at preferential rates is provided in respect of import financing. Gold mining companies and houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their future gold sales. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The financial rand system of the Common Mone- tary Area (CMA)!was abolished, effective March 13, 1995. All CMA financial rand balances have been designated as either "nonresident" accounts in cases where account holders are living outside the CMA or "resident" accounts in cases where balances belong to immigrants. Balances on resident accounts are freely transferable within the CMA, whereas those on nonresident accounts are freely transferable from the CMA. Exchange Control Territory Namibia is part of the CMA within which no restrictions are applied to payments. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Namibia applies exchange controls that are almost identical to those applied by the other CMA members. !The members of the CMA are Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. The Bank of Namibia, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Import and export permits, • where required, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The authorized dealers automatically provide foreign exchange for imports from outside the Southern African Customs Union (SACU)2 upon presentation of necessary documents. Advance payments for imports require the approval of the Bank of Namibia. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the CMA constitute the non- resident area. The rand is legal tender in Namibia and Lesotho but not in Swaziland. Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents3 are divided into nonresident accounts and emigrant blocked accounts. The regulations that apply to these accounts in South Africa also apply in Namibia. Imports and Import Payments There are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the SACU. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. For pur- poses of import permit issuance, Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations of South Africa is cur- rently enforced. These permits are valid for one year, are expressed in value terms, and are valid for imports from any country outside the SACU. At present, about 90 percent of imports require a per- mit. Namibia has the right to restrict certain imports (through customs duties or quantitative restrictions) from countries outside the SACU, and, under certain conditions, from countries within the SACU. A wide range of imports from countries outside the SACU are subject to a general sales tax of 11 percent (as are locally produced goods) and to surcharges ranging 2The members of the SACU are Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. 3A nonresident is a person (a na tural person or a legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is out- side the CMA. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 NAMIBIA from 7.5 percent on certain foodstuffs to 40 percent on nonessential luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are empowered to approve trade-related invisible payments without limitation and other invisible payments up to established lim- its, as follows: (1) annual allowances for tourist travel of N$25,000 for an adult and N$12,500 for a child under 12 years. Basic annual allowances for travel to the neighboring countries of Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe are N$6,000 for an adult and N$3,000 for a child under 12 years; and (2) business travel allowances of not more than N$2,000 a day, with a maximum of N$38,000 a calendar year. To the neigh- boring countries mentioned above, allowances may not exceed N$900 a day and N$12,000 a year. Resi- dents leaving Namibia for destinations outside the CMA are allowed to take no more than 50 percent of the foreign exchange allowance in the form of for- eign banknotes; larger amounts may be granted on presentation of documentary proof of need. There are no prescribed limits on remittances for education and family maintenance, and reasonable amounts are granted on a case-by-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are permitted without a license. Per- mits are required for the exportation of goods in short supply to non-SACU countries. All export pro- ceeds are normally required to be remitted to Namibia and surrendered within six months of ship- ment or within seven days of the date of accrual. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may bring in a total of N$500 in Namibian banknotes or R 500 in South African banknotes. There are no limi- tations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital All capital transfers to and from destinations out- side the CMA in the form of loans are subject to spe- cific approval from the Bank of Namibia. Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepre- neurs, except for speculative borrowings or con- sumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Namibia's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Inward transfers of capi- tal from non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely permitted, whereas applications by resi- dents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, coun- tries outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects owned or con- trolled by residents are considered on their own merits. Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted CMA securities, real estate, and other equity invest- ments by nonresidents are freely transferable. Fami- lies emigrating to destinations outside the CMA are granted the normal travel (tourist) allowance and are permitted to remit up to N$200,000 (N$100,000 for a single person). Any balance exceeding this limit must be credited to an emigrant blocked account; the balance, including earned income, may be trans- ferred under prescribed conditions. At the time of their arrival, immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities. Any foreign assets they transfer to the CMA may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad within the first five years of their arrival. Gold Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, and sell gold coins within the CMA for numismatic and investment purposes only. All exports and imports of gold require the prior approval of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 13. The financial rand system ceased to operate in Namibia following its abolition by South Africa. Foreign investors were free to repatriate the sale proceeds of their investment through normal banking channels. Payments for Invisibles June 26. The period prior to departure within which prospective travelers may obtain foreign exchange allowances was extended to 28 days. In addition, the proportion of foreign banknotes avail- able for holiday or business travel was increased to 50 percent. October 9. The requirement that all exports on credit be covered by compulsory forward cover was revoked. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 341 December 21. Limits were raised on other miscella- neous transactions, such as directors' fees and members' fees to emigrants and nonresidents, mem- bership or affiliation fees, subscriptions, etc. Capital August 3. Institutional investors, such as pension funds, insurance companies, and unit trusts were allowed to invest a portion of their assets abroad. Proposals could be submitted to the Exchange Con- trol Authorities allowing such institutions to obtain foreign investment by way of swap arrangements. Such arrangements would allow the exchange for foreign assets with foreign investors of part of their existing assets. October 19. The requirement of an auditor's certifi- cate for specified companies to transfer dividends to emigrants was abolished. November 1. The requirement of an auditor's certif- icate for specified companies to transfer dividends to nonresidents was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee. The official exchange rate is determined by linking it closely to the Indian rupee (NRe 1.6 per Re 1 at the end of 1995), with cross rates against other curren- cies determined by commercial banks on the basis of demand and supply. On December 31,1995, the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, were NRs 55.75 and NRs 56.25, respectively, per $1. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies,1 with quo- tations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Convertibility between the Indian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Nepal, and the Indian rupee may be used to effect all bona fide transactions. Purchases of Indian currency in excess of Rs 10,000 must be docu- mented, and the purpose must be specified. It is pos- sible to obtain forward exchange cover for trade transactions which is provided only by authorized banks. Nepal accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 30, 1994. Administration of Control Payments in convertible currencies may be made without permission, subject to the procedures pre- scribed by the Nepal Rastra Bank. All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers. Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. Prescription of Currency All current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) other than India (i.e., Bangladesh, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) must be effected through the ACU. Payments for selected imports from India may be settled in U.S. dollars; other imports and proceeds from exports to India must be settled in Indian Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and Swiss francs. In addition, buying rates are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Saudi Arabian riy- als, and Swedish kronor. rupees. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may accept deposits denomi- nated in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, and are free to determine the rate of interest paid on deposits. Eligibility for opening such accounts is limited to (1) Nepalese citi- zens earning foreign exchange from working abroad (except in Bhutan and India) for more than three months; (2) international organizations and foreign nationals; (3) Bhutanese and Indian citizens residing in countries other than Bhutan and India; and (4) exporters who are allowed to deposit up to 100 percent of export earnings in a foreign exchange account to cover trade-related expenses. Current accounts may be opened with a minimum equiva- lent to $500, and time deposits with a minimum equivalent to $3,000. Nonresidents are permitted to withdraw their deposits at any time and convert them into any convertible currency at the authorized banks. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals working in projects financed with foreign-donated funds under bilateral or multilateral agreements with the Gov- ernment, and nonresidents may freely open foreign currency accounts with Nepalese banks. Accounts may be maintained in all specified convertible cur- rencies, and balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Nonresidents who receive or bring into Nepal foreign currencies, which they convert into Nepalese rupees and deposit with a Nepalese bank, may reconvert them for transfer out of the country, subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments Most private sector imports are allowed under open general licenses (OGLs). However, imports of certain items, such as arms, ammunition, wireless transmitters, precious metals, and jewelry (except under baggage rules), require special permission from the Government. 342 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 343 Silver was mostly imported by the Nepal Rastra Bank and sold to silver jewelers and hand icraf t- exporting industries through the commercial banks. However, since March 1994, imports of sil- ver up to 150 kilograms have been allowed for those who have stayed abroad more than one month and have an official source of foreign exchange earnings. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are allowed to bring in goods worth NRs 1,000, free of customs duties and sales taxes. Those who have offi- cial sources of foreign exchange earnings and have stayed abroad for more than one month are allowed additional imports with proper documentation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, pro- vided that applications for foreign exchange are sup- ported by documentary proof of need and the amounts are reasonable. Nepalese and Indian cur- rencies may not be exported to countries other than India, and they may be taken to India only by Nepalese and Indian nationals. Foreign banknotes, other than Indian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank- notes they bring in; however, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Nepalese travelers and migrant workers are allowed to take out of the country the equivalent of $1,500 a year. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 180 days of receipt, but are not required to be surren- dered. Exports valued at more than $1,000 to coun- tries other than India are allowed only against irrevocable letters of credit or advance payments by foreign banks. Exports of items having archaeologi- cal and religious importance and certain other exports, including old coins, narcotics, and explo- sive materials, are prohibited. The re-exportation to India of non-Nepalese goods and the re-exportation to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. The export volume of ready-made garments to the United States is restricted by a quota that increases annually by 6 percent. Import duties paid by export- ers on goods from bonded warehouses are refunded. When exporters purchase imports from the bonded warehouses, the duty payable is deposited in an escrow bank account and is released when the gar- ments made from these imports are exported and the documentation required to verify the use of imports is provided. Foreign tourists leaving Nepal may take out as souvenirs, without permission, Nepalese goods whose value does not exceed the value of the foreign currency they exchanged in Nepal. Commercial banks may grant pre-export credits of up to 70 percent of the f.o.b. value of products specified by the Government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks that are acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credits may be provided for a maximum of three months; this period may be extended without penalty under special circumstances that are beyond the control of the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Nepalese and Indian currencies may be brought in only from India and only by Nepalese and Indian nationals. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank- notes. Residents and nonresidents may freely bring in other foreign banknotes but must declare them if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $2,000. Capital Repatriation of capital requires prior approval from the Nepal Rastra Bank; approval is automati- cally granted, provided capital transfers have been cleared by the Industrial Promotion Board. Nepalese citizens, whether they reside in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries, except investments specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, and investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal. All foreign direct investment in Nepal requires prior approval in the form of a guarantee from the Industrial Promotion Board (projects of more than NRs 500 million) and the Department of Industry (projects of less than NRs 500 million). Foreign investors who have obtained an investment guaran- tee are eligible to make remittances abroad for all or part of the sales proceeds of investments, dividends, interest, or principal repayment; amounts arising from the transfer of technology; and compensation on acquired assets. The Industrial Enterprises Act contains provisions regarding local equity require- ments for foreign investment in enterprises. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense-related industries unless substantial transfers of technology are involved. Foreign inves- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 NEPAL tors can hold 100 percent equity in large- and medium-scale industries. Small-scale industries are defined as those with fixed assets valued at up to NRs 10 million; for medium-scale industries, the asset value limit is NRs 50 million, and those with fixed assets in excess of NRs 50 million are consid- ered large-scale industries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold up to 10 kilo- grams are allowed for those who have stayed abroad for more than one month and have an official source of foreign earnings. Changes During 1995 Capital December 1. The Foreign Investment and Transfer of Technology Act of 1992 was amended. The main amendment is the lifting of the minimum size restriction, except for a negative list of activities. This negative list includes (1) personalized services such as barber and beauty parlor service; (2) retail businesses; and (3) areas of cultural or national inter- est such as handicrafts, cottage industries, trekking, and travel. In addition, the minimum size of foreign investment required to obtain a residential visa was lowered from $1 million to $10,000. Finally, the with- holding tax of 15 percent levied on income gener- ated by management and consultancy fees, and copyrights has now been removed, bringing Nepal in line with practices in neighboring countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Nether- lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ire- land, Luxembourg, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accor- dance with this agreement, the Netherlands main- tains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs). Under the special bilateral agreement, the spot exchange rate of the Netherlands guilder and the deutsche mark is maintained within a fluctuation band of ±2.25 percent. The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at speci- fied intervention rates. On December 31, 1995, the rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Austrian schillings 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 Deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Portuguese escudos 100 Spanish pesetas Netherlands Guilders Upper limit Lower limit 18.58630 13.79180 6.34340 34.30020 115.23500 39.00910 3.15450 1.27640 1.53790 4.70454 25.43850 110.16750 28.93810 2.33950 0.94660 1.14060 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. On occasion, they can intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being mainly each other's, the ECU, the Japanese yen, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar. Banks quote buying and selling rates for all major foreign currencies. On December 31, 1995, the mid- dle rate for the U.S. dollar was f. 1.6044 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Residents and nonresidents are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and nonconvertible curren- cies, both spot and forward, at negotiated rates. For- ward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transac- tion required. Residents and nonresidents are free to hold Netherlands guilder and foreign currency accounts in the Netherlands and abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls, except for the reporting requirements (in accordance with the External Financial Relations Act of 1994). Import and export licensing, including transit trade,2 is handled by the Central Import-Export Agency and the dele- gated offices, under directives from the Directorate- General for Foreign Economic Relations of the Min- istry of Economic Affairs. Residents are generally required to supply information on their payments to and receipts from nonresidents to the Netherlands Bank either through credit institutions or other pro- viders of financial services who act as intermediar- ies, or directly in cases where residents do not use the services of the financial institutions within the scope of the regulations based on the External Finan- cial Relations Act of 1994 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the compilation of the balance of payments, residents are required to indicate on reporting forms, all payments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 25,000 or its equivalent in foreign currencies, the nature of the underlying transaction, as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the report- ing of settlements where no transfer of money is involved. Residents are free to open and maintain bank accounts abroad and to maintain current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. Such accounts must be declared to the Netherlands Bank, and deposits into them must be reported to the bank in accordance with relevant regulations. Austria became a member of the European Union on Janua ry 1,1995, and joined the ERM of the EMS on Janua ry 9,1995. 2The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific li- cense are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 NETHERLANDS In compliance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions are imposed on financial transactions with Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are under the control of Bosnian Serb forces. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collect- ing receipts from them, residents may use guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonresi- dent accounts with authorized banks in the Nether- lands in guilders or in any foreign currency and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, resi- dents. All payments or receipts are freely permitted, as are transfers of balances to and from other nonres- ident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Angola, Iraq, and areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originat- ing in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading coun- tries, (i.e., the People's Republic of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet- nam) as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries, most imports that require an import license are free from quantita- tive restriction. Most imports from Eastern Euro- pean countries have been formally liberalized. Imports from non-European Union (EU) countries of most products covered by the Common Agricul- tural Policy of the EU are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms to the relevant exchange control regulations (i.e., transfers are properly reported). Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in foreign and domestic banknotes and coins or documents of value. Payments for interest, dividends, and contrac- tual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely. Nonresidents may export all unused documents of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins that they have imported or obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Angola, Iraq, and areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces are prohibited. Certain exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are also prohibited. Export licenses are required for only a few com- modities, mostly of a strategic character; for some agricultural products; and for iron and steel scrap and related products. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of nonprohibited exports. There is no repatriation or surrender requirement for export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amount of foreign banknotes and documents of value; these may be used for travel expenses in the Netherlands. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents are not restricted, except that they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1994. External capital transactions are unrestricted. For direct investment in the form of capital participation (inward and outward), no license is required. Nei- ther short-term lending (for less than two years) nor long-term lending to nonresidents (whether affili- ated companies or others) requires a license. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign deben- tures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Euroguilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not sub- ject to deposit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 347 Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage borrowing from nonresidents is free of license. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may have their total assets in the Netherlands remitted to them upon departure. Nonresidents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions for foreign exchange control reasons. However; for prudential reasons, limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign currency and precious metals. Banks are required to report to the Netherlands Bank their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. Autho- rized banks may freely extend foreign currency and guilder loans to nonresidents. The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by residents must be reported to the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the External Financial Act of 1994. Total amounts of security transactions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Gold Neither the Netherlands Bank nor any govern- ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Banks and nonbank residents may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coins, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transactions of the Netherlands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are subject to a value-added tax of 6 percent, as are domestic sales of gold coins. All other gold transactions are taxed at the standard value-added tax rate of 17.5 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when they originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis dur- ing 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 per $1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31,1995 were NA f. 1.77 per $1 for banknotes and NA f. 1.78 per $1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was NA f. 1.80 per $1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. A foreign exchange tax of 1.3 percent is levied on payments made by residents to nonresidents, with interna- tional companies and pension funds exempted. Purchases of foreign exchange by resident compa- nies with nonresident status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The central bank issues exchange licenses, where required. The Department of Finance issues import licenses, where required. The central bank permits the commercial banks to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. All pay- ments made by residents to nonresidents and receipts through authorized banks, as well as through banks abroad, must be reported to the central bank for the compilation of the balance of payments. ]The Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory, in re- spect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. On Janua ry 1, 1986, the island of Aruba, formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a sep- a ra te nonmetropolitan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2Aruban florins, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, European currency units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, and Swiss francs. All currencies other than the Netherlands Antillean guil- der are considered foreign currencies. Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts with autho- rized banks (positive balances) in Netherlands Antil- lean guilders. Balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 200,000 without the approval of the central bank. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Imports whose delivery dates exceed their payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the central bank. The importation of 42 items for which there are locally produced substitutes is sub- ject to tar iffs ranging from 25 percent to 90 percent. Certain commodities are subject to import sur- charges in Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles All types of current invisible payments and remit- tances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart; the central bank must receive notification. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The exportation of Netherlands Antillean banknotes is prohibited, except for traveling purposes. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed by the central bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require no licenses. Export proceeds must be repatriated but need not be surrendered. If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of ship- ment, the delay must be reported to the central bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or banknotes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments and transfers of loans to resi- dents in the Netherlands Antilles require licenses, which are normally granted. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 349 Outward flows of resident-owned capital are sub- ject to control. Investments by residents in real estate abroad, as well as capital loans to nonresidents, require a license. Investment and disinvestment by nonresidents in real estate in the Netherlands Antil- les do not require a license. Investment by residents in officially listed foreign securities (and in mutual funds whose shares are officially quoted) is permit- ted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 per year. Rein- vestment of proceeds from the sale of securities is also allowed. Resident individuals are allowed to hold foreign bank accounts without a special license. Transfers from a local bank account to these foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 10,000 per quarter. Authorized banks' overall position with nonresi- dents is subject to limits set by the central bank and must always be positive and in currencies consid- ered "freely usable," as defined under Article XXX (f) of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, and/or in Netherlands guilders. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Imports and exports of gold do not require a special license. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of January 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar, the external value of which is determined by demand and supply conditions in the exchange mar- ket. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand, however, retains discretionary power to intervene in the for- eign exchange market and may signal its desired exchange rate range. Foreign exchange dealers are free to adjust exchange rate quotations in response to market conditions throughout each business day. On December 31, 1995, the closing buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were US$ 0.6515 and US$0.6520, respectively, per $NZ1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Financial institutions are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies at market-determined rates in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespec- tive of the source of the funds. New Zealand accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on August 5,1982. slavia (Serbia/Montenegro) in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992). Since Decembers, 1993, and December9, 1994, certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions pursuant to the UN Security Council resolutions have been imposed with respect to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Bos- nia and Herzegovina, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency,1 as may payments to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain and operate accounts without formality and may repatriate funds without restrictions. Overseas banks' accounts in New Zealand may be used to settle transactions with other countries. Administration of Control Imports and Import Payments Receipts and remittances of foreign exchange are free from control since February 1990. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand, however, requires registered banks to publicly disclose, on a quarterly basis, for- eign exposure levels for prudential supervision pur- poses. The only remaining requirements are for purposes of statistical information to assist Statistics of New Zealand. Prohibitions and restrictions are imposed on the trade of certain products, principally for reasons of human /p lan t /an imal health considerations. Most of the restrictions are conditional. The Overseas Investment Commission adminis- ters the regulations governing foreign direct invest- ment in New Zealand. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, New Zealand notified the Fund on September 6,1990 that, in compliance with UN Secu- rity Council Resolution No. 661 (1990), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of pay- ments and transfers for current international transac- tions in respect of Iraq, and similarly on September 30,1992, in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugo- Most tariffs on industrial products have been reduced by approximately one-half over the period since July 1988. The only tar iffs over 20 percent apply to motor vehicles, tires and other motor vehi- cle components, and certain other products (includ- ing textiles, and clothing), footwear, and carpets. Most tariffs are ad valorem, but specific tariffs apply to some products (e.g., clothing). Import prohibi- tions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products, primarily plants, animals, and products considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA) and the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA),2 imports of qualifying goods enter duty-free from Australia and the SPARTECA countries. In addition, ]Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 2The islands under this arrangement constitute the South Pa- cific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand), Cook Is- lands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanua tu, and Western Samoa. 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 351 under the ANZCERTA, antidumping remedies have been replaced by domestic laws regulating trade practices. Less comprehensive preferential trade arrange- ments affect specified imports from Canada, Malay- sia, and the United Kingdom. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded tariff preferences under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), except imports of clothing, footwear, and motor vehicles. In most cases, these preferential rates are 80 percent of the normal tariff rates; in no case is the margin of prefer- ence less for developing countries. A developing country with a per capita GNP equal to or greater than 70 percent of New Zealand's loses its preferen- tial status under the criterion of "country gradua- tion," and a developing country loses its preference with respect to specific tariff items when minimum market share exceeds a minimum value under the criterion of "product graduation." In addition, duty-free access is granted to most imports from 36 countries classified by the United Nations as "least developed." Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are unrestricted, except for transactions involving nationals of Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro), although there is a reporting requirement for statistical purposes. The ANZCERTA also provides a framework for the liberalization of trade in services between Australia and New Zealand subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. It provides for free trade in services based on national treatment. All services are covered except for those on a negative list pre- pared by each government; the list includes certain aspects of telecommunications, aviation, coastal shipping, and postal services; Australia's list also includes radio and television broadcasting, insur- ance, and banking. Exports and Export Proceeds Export earnings (including foreign currency earned for performing services in New Zealand for foreign nationals) need not be returned through the banking system. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific require- ments have been met and an export permit has been issued. Many of New Zealand's exports are currently restricted by quotas and other quantitative restric- tions imposed by its principal trading partners. For example, exports of lamb and butter to the European Union and exports of beef and dairy products to the United States are subject to either quotas or volun- tary export restraints. Proceeds from Invisibles Remuneration for services provided (or to be pro- vided) in New Zealand, by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand), and on behalf of overseas residents as well as interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment, do not have to be repatri- ated. The ANZCERTA provides for liberalization of trade in services rendered by New Zealand residents in Australia, subject to certain conditions (as noted in the section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles, such as interest and dividends, is permitted. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic banknotes and coins. Capital In general, approval is not required in respect of capital receipts, although overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must, in some cases, obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission (OIC). Nonresident per- sons who are not New Zealand citizens or compa- nies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company by purchasing or exchanging shares are required to obtain the consent of the OIC in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement of 25 percent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. However, if the consideration and gross assets of the offeree company are less than $NZ 10 million, the company is exempt from this requirement. The $NZ 10 million level also triggers the need for OIC approval when a foreign entity wishes to acquire the assets of a New Zealand company or establish a New Zealand subsidiary or branch. More restrictive rules apply to any land purchase involving offshore islands, or worth more than $10 million and other specific land purchases involving offshore islands, reserves, conservation land, historic areas, foreshore, and lakes. The consent of the OIC is required for such purchases regardless of the value involved. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand without restriction. There are no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 NEW ZEALAND restrictions or licensing requirements on the impor- tation and exportation of gold. Changes During 1996 Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Capital January 16. The provision of the Overseas Invest- ment Amendment Act, 1995 came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of January 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the Cordoba. The Central Bank unified the exchange market effective January 1, 1996, thereby allowing the central Gov- ernment and financial institutions to freely under- take purchases or sales of foreign exchange with the Central Bank, and permitting financial institutions and exchange houses to carry out transactions for foreign exchange with the private sector. Up until December 31, 1995, the exchange rate system con- sisted of two rates: an official rate, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, is devalued daily at an annual rate of 12 percent; and a free exchange rate, which is determined by transactions of commercial banks and exchange houses. In addition, there was an unrecognized parallel market. Official receipts and payments were transacted in the official market, while the remaining transactions took place in the free market. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates in the official market were C$7.9561 and C$8.0400, respectively per US$1, and the buying and selling rates in the free market were C$7.9980 and C$8.1243, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank continues to set the exchange rate on its foreign exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Foreign-currency- denominated accounts and cordoba accounts with exchange guarantee (maintenance of value) con- tracts may be opened with commercial banks. Banks may also make loans denominated in foreign cur- rency or in local currency with exchange guarantees. The Central Bank of Nicaragua charges a commis- sion of 1 percent on sales of foreign exchange. Exporters benefiting from tax incentives must deposit their proceeds at an account at commercial banks. Foreign investors must surrender foreign exchange from new investments or additions to cap- ital to the Central Bank through commercial banks. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 30,1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has authorized commercial banks and exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. Some transactions not eligible for official foreign exchange may be effected through an authorized foreign currency deposit account or with currencies acquired from exchange houses. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency. Imports and Import Payments All importers must submit an "import declara- tion" form either to commercial banks or to Customs in case they are using their own resources. Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but almost all are made through letters of credit. Imports are subject to a temporary import tariff (applied to a list of 742 items), a stamp tax, both of which are applied to all goods independent of their origin, and to the Central American Common Tariff. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are effected in the free market. Payments for other invisibles, such as travel, edu- cational expenses, family maintenance, and medical expenses, take place through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are free, requiring only registration (Registro Unico de Exportacion) with the Central Bank. Export licenses are not required for the expor- tation of traditional or nontraditional products. Exporters benefiting from tax incentives must deposit their foreign exchange proceeds in an account at commercial banks, but may mobilize it freely afterward. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be retained or sold in the free market. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange persons arriving in Nicaragua from abroad may bring in and use locally. Capital Capital transactions are not restricted. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 Gold NICARAGUA The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the country's gold production. The Central Bank reserves the right to purchase up to 25 percent of gold production of private mines, at prices prevail- ing in international prices. However, the mines may export gold freely if the Central Bank does not pur- chase this amount during a certain period. Com- memorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Natural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement February 28. Restrictions on the making of pay- ments through the official market were lifted for education expenses. May 23. Restrictions on the making of payments through the official market were lifted for health and travel expenses. Imports and Import Payments June 28. The Central American Common Tariff for imports of capital goods was lowered to 1 percent from 5 percent. July 1. The maximum tariff rate was reduced to 37 percent, by reducing the maximum temporary tariff to 12 percent. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The Monetary Board of the Central Bank unified the exchange market, thereby eliminat- ing the compulsory sale of foreign exchange by exporters to the Central Bank, allowing the central Government and financial institutions to freely undertake purchase or sale of foreign exchange with the Central Bank, and permitting financial institu- tions and exchange houses to carry out foreign exchange transactions with the private sector. The Central Bank would continue to set the exchange rate for its foreign exchange transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The offi- cial buying and selling rates are CFAF 100 per F1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Transfers by banks to countries outside the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU)2 are subject to an exchange commission of 2.5 per thousand of the amount of the transfer plus a lump sum commission freely determined by the banks. All revenue from commissions charged by the banks on transfers to countries outside the WAEMU is transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold transactions, the domiciliation of exports, and the repatriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to France (and its overseas departments and territories); Monaco; and all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (the West African States and Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equato- rial Guinea, and Gabon). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. The contracting of forward exchange cover requires prior authorization from the Financial Rela- tions Directorate of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Such cover may be provided for payments for permitted imports and for the currency stipu- lated in the commercial contract. The maturity period must not exceed one or three months, depending on the nature of the goods involved, and is not renewable. There is no official scheme for cur- rency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for exter- nal debt servicing. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 'The CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2The treaty creating the WAEMU came into effect on August 1, 1994. It coexists presently with the treaty ins t i tu t ing the West Af- rican Monetary Union (WAMU). Niger accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Financial Relations Directorate. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile bal- ance of payments statistics. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be made through the BCEAO, the Postal Administration, and authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Since Niger has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usu- ally effected either in foreign currencies through cor- respondent banks in France or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are subject to strict regula- tions, which stipulate authorized debit and credit operations. These accounts may not be credited with banknotes of the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue with an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Imports and Import Payments There are no import restrictions or prohibitions, including temporary measures affecting imports of certain products, or licensing requirements for imports including imports in transit. A customs tar- iff regime, introduced in October 1994, consists of three categories of products with ad valorem rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, and 30 percent. All transactions with foreign countries on imports with a c.i.f. value exceeding CFAF 25,000 at the bor- der must be domiciled with an authorized bank. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 NIGER Foreign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or until eight days before the shipment date if the goods are covered by documentary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Monetary and Financial Rela- tions Directorate (External Finance Unit), which for certain transactions has delegated its powers to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely. Transfers of income accru- ing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely once the basic transaction has been approved. Foreigners working in Niger may transfer abroad savings from their sal- aries with the prior approval of the Monetary and Financial Relations Directorate, but these transfers are normally limited to 70 percent of net pay. Larger transfers are permitted, however, if supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Residents traveling for tourist or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out the equivalent of up to CFAF 2 million in banknotes other than CFA franc banknotes; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, correspond- ing to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the Minister of Finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers proceeding to countries that are not members of the WAEMU must declare in writing all means of payment at their dis- posal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that these means of pay- ment were purchased with funds drawn from a for- eign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceil- ings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their pur- chase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler, or through the use of non- resident deposits held in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain products (livestock, leather and skins, onions, rice, and sugar) are subject to submis- sion of a statistic registration certificate (FES) for sta- tistical compilation and monitoring purposes. Exports to France (as defined above) and the Opera- tions Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require an exchange commitment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to for- eign countries must not be later than 180 days after Jhe goods arrive at their destination. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank within 15 days of the date of receipt, or at the latest within 15 days of the date on which the payment is due. All exports exceeding a value of CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by Opera- tions Accounts may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Capital Capital transactions between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 357 linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require approval from the exchange control authority and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad; inward and outward invest- ment; and the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance, except in the case of operations in connec- tion with loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government, and with shares that are identical to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issue or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over for- eign securities, these measures do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAEMU, and other coun- tries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts. Special controls are also maintained over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign pri- vate persons and foreign firms and institutions and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate development operations abroad. These special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts. All the special provisions described in this para- graph apply only to transactions and not to associ- ated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance;3 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. Direct investments are those implying control of a company or an enterprise; however, the acquisition of an interest in a company not exceeding 20 percent of its capital is not consid- ered direct investment. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration in which to request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger must be 3Including those made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 4Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Niger. reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Lending abroad is also subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior declaration to the Minister of Finance when the outstanding amount for any one borrower exceeds CFAF 30 million. The repayment of a for- eign loan constituting a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loans were subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted cer- tain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31,1988, and its amendments. The facil- ities granted under the previous Investment Code have been maintained. In addition, the new Invest- ment Code provides for regular or privileged treat- ment. Regular treatment provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and con- cerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treat- ment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of spe- cial importance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two different regimes—the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Niger accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. The official exchange rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of N22 per $1, and it is applied to official government transactions. All other transactions take place at market-determined exchange rates in an Autonomous Foreign Exchange Market (AFEM), which was established by the For- eign Exchange Decree of January 1995. Foreign exchange bureaus (Bureaux de Change) are allowed to transact in foreign currency banknotes and to buy foreign currency traveler's checks at the autono- mous foreign exchange market rates, subject to a margin of 2 percent. Also, they are allowed to sell foreign currency notes only up to a maximum of $2,500 for each transaction. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for transfers of capital abroad; for remittances of profits and dividends; for granting "approved status" to nonresident invest- ments in Nigeria; and for approving any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the principal administrator of foreign exchange regula- tions. All licensed commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance, and are authorized to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Bank of Nigeria. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance for the transactions mentioned above. Hotels and rest houses are allowed to receive payments for hotel bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency from travelers to Nigeria. The Federal Ministry of Trade administers trade regulations. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira or in any foreign currency to an external account in Nige- ria. Settlements with the central banks of the mem- ber states of the Economic Community of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) are normally made through the West African Clearing House in West African Units of Account. Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of accounts: external accounts, nonresident accounts, and domiciliary accounts. External accounts are maintained for dip- lomatic representatives of all countries and interna- tional organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to resi- dents of foreign countries, with payments from other external accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for payments to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in nonresident accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from services ren- dered locally, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank of Nigeria before any foreign transfers are effected. Any person may open, maintain, and operate a domiciliary account designated in foreign currency with an authorized dealer, which may be funded by resi- dents derived from external sources but not with foreign exchange purchases in the AFEM. An exporter of goods, including petroleum products, may retain foreign currency corresponding to the entire export proceeds into the foreign currency domiciliary account. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required. The importation of the following products is prohibited: poultry, eggs, vegetables, processed wood, mosquito repel- lant oils, textile fabrics, plastic domestic articles, beer, rice and rice products, mineral water, soft drinks, and all sparkling wine. All containerized imports irrespective of their value and uncontainerized imports valued at the equivalent of $1,000 (c.i.f.) or more are subject to pre- shipment inspection to ensure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct quality and quantity according to the contracts, and that only the normal price of that product in the country of supply is paid as well as the correct import duty. Unless a "Clean 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 359 Report of Findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, foreign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. Payment for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit is made by the overseas correspondents on behalf of Nigerian banks, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents. However, such payment is made on the understand- ing that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents relating to the imported goods are lodged by importers with the authorized dealer as agents of the Nigerian Government within 21 days of negotiation of the specified documents. Bills of entry (for imports covered by confirmed let- ters of credit) must be submitted to the authorized dealer within 90 days of negotiation and payment by overseas correspondent banks. For all other means of payment, the full set of documents, evidencing the receipt of the goods in Nigeria, must be submit- ted to the authorized dealer. Payments for Invisibles Persons needing foreign exchange to make invisi- ble payments must submit applications to the Cen- tral Bank of Nigeria through designated banks. Basic allowances are provided for some payments. As with imports, verification is on an ex post basis— that is, depending on the payments arrangements, based on documentation obtained af ter the purchase of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of $500 a year, and for busi- ness travel, the equivalent of $5,000 a trip for an enterprise. Payments for international air tickets may be made in naira by residents. Hotels are allowed to accept settlement of hotel bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency from travelers to Nige- ria, who are required to settle their bills and inciden- tal expenses in foreign currency. However, when there is documentary evidence that an adequate amount of foreign currency has been exchanged into local currency at any licensed bank or foreign bureaus of exchange, payment in local currency must be accepted in settlement of hotel bills by for- eign visitors to Nigeria. Remittances abroad by expatriate residents of up to 75 percent of net salary after tax are considered by authorized dealers sub- ject to documentation requirements. Final balance applications involving the transfer of accumulated savings are considered subject to the approved guidelines and confirmation by the Central Bank of Nigeria that the expatriate concerned had not previ- ously been granted his final balance entitlement. The exportation of domestic currency in excess of Ml,000 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of African antiques, works of art, and objects used in African ceremonies is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of tim- ber (processed and unprocessed), raw hides and skins, raw palm kernel, cassava, maize, rice, yams, and all imported food items are prohibited. Exports of unrefined gold and petroleum products require an export license. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. Exporters are permitted to sell their export pro- ceeds to authorized dealer banks at autonomous for- eign exchange market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be received through the Central Bank of Nigeria or designated banks and surrendered to the Central Bank of Nige- ria. The importation of domestic currency in excess of Nl,000, is prohibited. Capital Applications for capital transfers abroad are approved by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development subject to satisfactory docu- mentation. Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, com- pany, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state- controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state- controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the Ministry of Finance. The permis- sion of the Ministry of Finance is required for bor- rowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or company, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet tempo- rary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank over- draft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 NIGERIA Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negoti- ated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or expatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1972, as amended in February 1974, July 1976, January 1977, and January 1989. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympa- thetic consideration will be given to future requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and divi- dends. Remittable dividends may be reinvested without the requirement that matching capital must be imported. However, the granting of approved status for such investment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The granting of approved status is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from prof- its, dividends, rents, bank credit, or locally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. Foreign- owned companies and banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission deals with all matters relating to approval and the prescription of applicable incentives for direct capi- tal investment in priority areas, subject to the provi- sions of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission Decree of 1995. Applications for the remittance of profits, dividends, etc., in respect of capital investment made through authorized foreign exchange dealers are considered by the Federal Min- istry of Finance and approved subject to documenta- tion requirements. Funds so approved are repatriated through the AFEM. A foreign investor in an enterprise to which the Nigerian Investment Pro- motion Commission Decree applies are guaranteed unconditional transferability of funds through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. In July 1988, the Central Bank of Nigeria pub- lished guidelines for an external debt-conversion program for Nigeria and established a Debt Conver- sion Program (DCP) to be supervised by a Debt Con- version Committee (DCC) appointed by the Federal Government. The DCC and DCP regulate the pur- chase of selected Nigerian foreign debt instruments at a discount and the disposition of the naira pro- ceeds of conversions of such debt. Eligible instru- ments were initially defined as uninsured trade debt denominated in promissory notes. When the rescheduling agreement with commercial banks was completed in early 1989, additional instruments rep- resenting debt to commercial banks were made eligi- ble for the debt-conversion provisions. All legitimate holders of promissory notes/debt instruments are eligible to apply to the DCC for debt conversion, provided that the foreign exchange used to acquire the instruments originated from abroad and not from foreign exchange purchases in Nigeria. Eligible uses for the naira proceeds from debt con- version are (1) cash gifts/grants to Nigerian entities; (2) expansion or recapitalization of investments in privatized enterprises; and (3) investment in new projects. The DCC evaluates each application and determines eligibility for participation in an auction conducted by the Central Bank of Nigeria. The amounts and timing of the auction are determined by the DCC. Restrictions on remittances of redemption pro- ceeds and incomes arising therefrom are the follow- ing: (1) interest income, profits/dividends, patent license fees, and other invisibles connected with approved projects under the DCP may not be repa- triated for a minimum period of five years from the date of release of redemption proceeds for actual investment or five years after such profits/divi- dends are made or paid, whichever is later; (2) any capital proceeds arising from subsequent disposal of the investment made under the program may not be repatriated for a minimum period of ten years after effective investment of the proceeds; repatriation of capital after ten years may not exceed 20 percent a year. Gold With the permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without/special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any/form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 361 any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary author- ities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Fur- thermore, the importation of gold coins requires an import license. Imports of gold coins and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank of Nigeria; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement January 16. An Autonomous Foreign Exchange Market (AFEM), in which transactions in any con- vertible foreign currency can be freely conducted, was established. January 16. Foreign exchange bureaus (Bureaux de Change) were allowed to transact foreign currency banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks at the auton- omous foreign exchange market rates, subject to a margin of 2 percent. Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 1. The system of blocked accounts was abolished with the repeal of the 1962 Exchange Con- trol Act. Imports and Import Payments January 16. All containerized imports, irrespective of their value, those which are not containerized, and imports valued at the equivalent of $1,000 (c.i.f.) or more were subject to preshipment inspection. Exports and Export Proceeds January 16. Exporters were allowed to sell their export proceeds to authorized banks at freely negoti- ated rates. Proceeds from Invisibles January 16. The amount of naira banknotes resi- dents are allowed to keep to settle local expenses on their return to Nigeria was increased to Nl,000 from N500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The Norwegian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. However, the Bank of Norway may inter- vene from time to time to maintain stability in the market. The Bank of Norway quotes daily the exchange rate of the krone against 23 other curren- cies1 and the European currency unit (ECU) for information purposes on the basis of the market rates. On December 31,1995, the middle rate quoted against the U.S. dollar was Nkr 6.319 per $1. Residents (Norwegian companies and private individuals) may freely enter into forward and inter- est rate contracts with Norwegian foreign exchange banks and nonresidents. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Norway accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 11,1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Norway in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and Customs. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agri- culture or the Ministry of Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Norway notified the Fund on July 21, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro); these restrictions have been abolished in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022 (1995). Restrictions have also been imposed on financial transactions with the Socialist People's Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Hong Kong dollars, Icelandic kronur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guil- ders, New Zealand dollars, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions No. 661/90 and No. 670/90), and with the areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are controlled by the Bosnian Serbs (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 942/94). Restrictions were imposed on financial transactions with Haiti (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 873/93, 841/93, and 917/94). These sanctions were subsequently lifted with UN Security Council Resolution No. 944/94. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner, in convertible krone accounts (see section on Resi- dent and Nonresident Accounts, below). Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents may open foreign exchange accounts at domestic banks without restriction. The main type of nonresident account is the convertible krone account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all foreign countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any country, with transfers from other convertible krone accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies in Norway. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other convertible krone accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency in Norway. Authorized banks are also permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents without restriction. Both convertible krone accounts and foreign exchange accounts must be reported to the Bank of Norway. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Iraq, from the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and from areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are con- trolled by the Bosnian Serbs are prohibited. Industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice, with the exception of textiles and certain footwear. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Following Norway's accession to the previous Multi- fiber Arrangement (MFA) on July 1,1984, the global quotas formerly in force under Article XIX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 363 have been phased out and replaced by bilateral agreements, which have been concluded with 19 textile suppliers. The agreements entered into under the current MFA are considerably more liberal than those that Norway had under the previous MFA. Norway has been liberalizing imports from developing countries. Besides textile products, foot- wear from Taiwan Province of China is subject to licensing requirements. New and secondhand ships and certain categories of fishing vessels may be imported freely. The importation of radio remittance equipment, such as radio controls, is subject to approval by the Director- ate of Telecommunications in respect of frequency. The importation of a small number of goods is pro- hibited for health and similar reasons. Direct trade credits may be extended for import (and export) financing without a license from the Bank of Norway. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the types of payments a person (resident or nonresident) may take out of Norway, but banknotes exceeding the equivalent of Nkr 25,000 (both Norwegian and foreign) must be reported to the customs authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports to Iraq and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are prohibited. Exports to the areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are controlled by the Bosnian Serbs are also prohibited, with the excep- tion of medical supplies and certain food items. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports to any country valued at up to Nkr 2,000 are exempt from declaration or export license; for arms and ammunition, this limit is Nkr 500, and for fish and fish products, Nkr 1,000. Export proceeds need not be repatriated Norway. to Proceeds from Invisibles There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange a person (resident or nonresident) may bring into Norway, but banknotes exceeding the equivalent of Nkr 25,000 (both Norwegian and for- eign) must be reported to the customs authorities. investments in the form of shares that are not nor- mally traded in a country belonging to the Organiza- tion for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) must, however, be made through Norwe- gian stockbrokers. Securities subject to the stockbro- ker requirement that are kept abroad must be deposited with a Norwegian bank or stockbroker. The stockbroker and deposit requirements will not apply if documentation of proof can be provided that the security is subject to regulatory and supervi- sory arrangements equivalent to OECD standards. Foreign exchange banks, exposure-regulated finan- cial institutions, insurance companies, and stockbro- kers dealing in foreign securities on their own account are exempt from the stockbroker and deposit requirements. Foreign exchange banks are also exempted when dealing on behalf of a resident. However, foreign exchange banks and financial institutions subject to exposure regulation must sub- mit reports on their net foreign currency position to the Bank of Norway. Net positions of up to 10 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in indi- vidual currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept within 20 percent of the financial institu- tions' equity and subordinated loan capital. There is no limit on purchases by residents of for- eign currency bonds, and residents are permitted to purchase foreign bonds and certificates. Purchases by residents of insurance services abroad, other than injury insurance, are prohibited if the insurance company is not registered in a European Economic Area (EEA) country. Nonresidents may purchase Norwegian bonds and certificates without restric- tion. There is no restriction on the importation into or exportation from Norway of securities. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relat- ing to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dow- ries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bul- lion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Domes- tic sales of gold bullion and gold coins are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 23 percent, except gold coins produced after January 1,1967. Capital Norwegian companies and private individuals are permitted to make direct investments abroad; direct Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO1 per $2.6008. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1995, the rates were RO 1 per $2.6042 (buying) and RO 1 per $2.5974 (selling). The commercial bank rates for other cur- rencies are based on market rates in London. There are arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official and com- mercial banking sectors. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 19,1974. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Oman notified the Fund, on January 27, 1993, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohib- ited, as is the use of their currencies. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for rea- sons of health, security, or public policy. Also, sea- sonal bans are imposed on the importation of fruits and vegetables that are grown locally. In addition, companies operating in Oman and trading in manu- factured oil products are prohibited from importing specified products as long as domestic production is deemed adequate to satisfy local demand. Licenses are required for imports. Foreign exchange for pay- ments abroad for authorized imports may be obtained freely. The customs regime consists of five bands, and the rates range from 5 percent for most general goods to 100 percent on alcoholic beverages, pork, and limes. Customs duties are not levied on government imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Exports of Maria Theresa dollars are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or for- eign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or on payments by residents or non- residents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign natural or juridi- cal persons requires prior approval and is regulated by the Law for the Organization and Encouragement of Industry of 1979, and the Foreign Investment Law of 1983. Under the latter, joint ventures are offered a five-year tax holiday, renewable for an additional five years under certain conditions. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN 365 The Oman Development Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential inter- est rates for project financing in the petroleum, agricultural, fishery, and mineral sectors; it can also give assistance in preinvestment research. The direction of foreign capital to large production or manufacturing projects is encouraged. In addition, the Government provides loans at subsidized inter- est rates for those projects with a majority Omani shareholding that are used for industrial produc- tion for exportation, industrial production using indigenous raw materials or labor, or the develop- ment of tourism. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resident and nonresident banks may, without license, pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and without payment of customs duties or taxes. Transactions involving Israel, South Africa, or the Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistani Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan sets the rate at which it will purchase and sell U.S. dollars in transactions with authorized dealers. On December 31,1995, the State Bank's spot buying and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 34.250 and PRs 34.421, respec- tively, per $1. All foreign exchange transactions with the public must be conducted through authorized dealers and effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In the calculation of spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.2 percent is provided on the previous day's closing buying and selling rates for the currency concerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified cur- rencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistani rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) for exports and imports effected under that arrangement. Forward exchange cover for private foreign cur- rency deposits is provided by the State Bank, which charges an annual fee of 6.3 percent, 9.7 percent, 3.9 percent, and 4.75 percent, respectively, on depos- its in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Residents and nonresidents may use foreign exchange to purchase foreign currency bearer certifi- cates (FCBCs) with a maturity of up to five years. FCBCs denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars are available in various denominations (deutsche mark, from DM 100 to DM 100,000; Japanese yen, from ¥10,000 to ¥10 million; pounds sterling, from £100 to £50,000; and U.S. dollars, from $100 to $100,000). They may be purchased by anyone without revealing the source of foreign exchange, freely brought into and taken out of the country, or cashed at any time in Pakistani rupees at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the encashment or redeemed in original currency, they may be used by residents to under- take any current or international capital transac- tions. FCBCs yield rates of return related to market interest rates for each respective currency. Foreign exchange bearer certificates (FEBCs) denominated in Pakistani rupees are available in denominations ranging from PRs 500 to PRs 100,000; their face value is 14.5 percent higher one year after issue, 31 percent higher after two years, 52 percent higher after three years, 74 percent higher after four years, 99 percent higher after five years, and 131 percent higher after six years. These certificates may be cashed any time after issue; in Pakistani rupees, at any office of issue located in Pakistan; or in foreign currency, at any office of issue located abroad or at any office of issue located in Pakistan that is authorized to deal in for- eign currency. Pakistan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 1, 1994. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a num- ber of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender require- ments, and to sell foreign exchange for certain pur- poses within limits prescribed by the State Bank. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted through various state trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistani rupees to or from nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified coun- tries are channeled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries may be established in foreign currency or in Pakistani rupees for credit to a nonresident bank account in the country of the beneficiary or in the country of origin or shipment of goods. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU (Bangladesh, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of 366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 367 current transactions are effected through the ACU in Asian monetary units (AMUs) or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, and settle- ments are made in Pakistani rupees or in afghanis. Payments between Pakistan and Israel are not permitted. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident foreign currency accounts. Residents of Pakistan are allowed to open and maintain foreign currency accounts (FCAs) with banks in Pakistan on the same basis as nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, foreign currency notes, proceeds from FEBCs, FCBCs, and dollar bearer certificates (DBCs). Sources of acquisition of foreign exchange are not required to be revealed. However, receipts from exports of goods and services; earnings from ser- vices of residents; earnings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistani firms, companies, and banks; and foreign exchange released from Paki- stan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. Balances held in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of withdrawal. These accounts may be permanently retained, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months and up to three years) is fixed by the State Bank with the approval of the Government. The rates are based on the Eurodollar deposit rate of Barclays Bank, London. The margins over the Eurodollar deposit rates range from 0.75 percent for three-month deposits to 1.625 percent for three-year deposits. Nonresident accounts. The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are designated nonresident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank when the accounts are opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its person- nel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Pakistan, and firms, companies, and charitable organizations owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open FCAs may open FCAs with banks in Pakistan without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. The accounts may be denominated in deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. Deposit holders wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from their accounts into Pakistani rupees. If Pakistani nationals holding such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts permanently. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Authorized dealers under the FCA facil- ity may accept term deposits in foreign currency from their overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, including financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least $5 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least six months. The rates of interest paid on these deposits may not exceed 0.5 percent above LIBOR. Imports and Import Payments Annual Import Policy Orders (IPOs) outline the regulations that apply to imports. All items that do not appear on either the negative list or the list of items permitted to be imported subject to health and safety requirements may be freely imported without licenses. The negative list mainly consists of items banned for religious and health reasons, or to dis- courage consumption of luxury items, and goods banned in accordance with international agree- ments.2 Some items on the negative list may be imported under certain circumstances, principally by export industries, public sector agencies, or under the personal baggage scheme. There exists a "procedural list," consisting of 17 items, and the importation of these items is subject to a certificate. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in Israel but shipped from other countries. Both the private and the public sectors may import 580 specified items or categories of goods directly from India. Special provisions govern the importation by export industries of items 1 Different rules apply to the nonresident rupee accounts of in- dividuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the non- resident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. 2Some of the currently prohibited imports fa ll outside these cat- egories (i.e., some prohibited items are not produced in Pakistan and do not fit into the category of goods banned for religious, health, or luxury consumption reasons). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 PAKISTAN importable on fulfillment of conditions and of items on the negative list. Import payments may be made against irrevoca- ble letters of credit, provided that the letters do not stipulate payment of any amount by way of interest in the case of usance bills and, further, that in the case of books, journals, magazines, and periodicals, they stipulate payment on a sight draft or usance bill basis. Since July 1995, exporters are allowed to obtain short-term foreign currency loans from abroad based on the value of the export contract or letter of credit; both principal and interest have to be repaid from the export proceeds. Imports can also be made on a consignment basis. When the importers desire to import on a joint basis from any country either for the sake of their own convenience or economy, or because of the suppli- ers' inability to supply goods in small consign- ments, the importers may establish joint letters of credit. For imports under any special trading arrangement, the letters of credit may be opened within such a period as may be specified in the rele- vant public notice issued by the authorities. In case . of imports under loans or credits, which require the contracts to be approved by the agencies of the Gov- ernment, the importer shall open a letter of credit within 60 days of the date the contract is approved. In case of imports under suppliers' credit and the PAYE scheme, letters of credit may be opened only if the contract has been registered with the State Bank. Letters of credit are generally established for up to 12 months, with the following exceptions: (1) when machinery and millwork must be specifi- cally fabricated and the period of manufacture is more than 12 months, letters of credit shall be estab- lished with a validity period of up to 24 months; (2) for all items other than machinery and millwork, the period of 12 months may be extended for an additional 24 months on payment of an additional fee of 0.25 percent of the unused value of the letter of credit for each period of 6 months from the date of its expiry; (3) in the case of machinery, letters of credit may be extended for up to 36 months from the date of expiry of initial validity period of 12 months, or 24 months as the case may be, on additional payment of 0.25 percent of the unused value of the letter of credit for each 6-month period; and (4) if the letters of credit are opened against loans, credits, barters, or special trading arrange- ments whereby shipment could not take place owing to circumstances beyond the control of the importer, revalidation may be allowed within the validity of the loan, credit, barter, or special trading arrangement without additional payment. Insurance on transportation must be taken out with insurance companies registered in Pakistan. Payment for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. Payments to Israel are not permitted. Payments for invisibles related to imports are gen- erally given the same treatment as that accorded to the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a maximum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except for cotton for which the maximum is 1 percent. The maximum percentage for sporting goods, surgical instruments, cutlery, leather goods, ready-made garments and other ready-made textile items, carpets, and plastic goods is 7 percent; for engineering goods it is 10 percent; and for books, journals, and magazines it is 331/3 percent. The remittance of dividends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign compa- nies other than banks and those engaged in insur- ance, shipping, and the airline business is permitted without restriction provided that the required docu- ments are submitted to the State Bank. The same reg- ulation applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit-and-loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. Since August 30,1993, foreign exchange for pri- vate travel to countries other than the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and India is granted at the rate of $50 a day for up to 42 days during a calen- dar year on submission of travel documents to the authorized dealers. Requests for foreign exchange in excess of these amounts are to be referred by the authorized dealers to the State Bank giving justifica- tion for the additional amount. Unspent foreign exchange, however, must be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The entitlement can be used in installments. Remittances for undergraduate and postgraduate studies abroad and correspondence courses are not restricted. Foreign exchange for busi- ness travel, medical treatment, education, and spon- sored cultural trips may be granted on a case-by- case basis. Foreign exchange allowances for stu- dents' tuition fees and expenses as required by insti- tutions may be obtained from authorized dealers without approval from the State Bank. Allowances for professional training abroad are granted at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 369 $1,200 a month. Requests for foreign exchange in excess of $1,200 a month for professional training must be referred to the State Bank duly accompanied by cogent reasons and supporting documents. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods with annual export earnings of more than PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services with annual earnings of more than PRs 0.25 million are granted a renewable business travel allowance of $200 a day, up to $6,000 a busi- ness trip. In addition, business travelers may settle credit card charges of up to $100 a day, subject to a maximum of $3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encasement of FCBCs. Foreigners may make family remittances to the extent of the difference between the net income of the applicant and his or her esti- mated expenses in Pakistan. In case the family of a resident Pakistani is temporarily living abroad for genuine personal reasons, foreign exchange will be provided upon bona fide request. Persons leaving Pakistan (foreigners and Paki- stani nationals) may take out with them foreign cur- rency without limit. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities3 to any destina- tion and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. How- ever, certain exports are subject to export quotas (e.g., maize, gram, split gram, and camels), quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appli- ances, and oil cakes), or minimum export prices (e.g., onyx blocks). The Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., is responsible for the exportation of cotton, although the private sector has also been allowed into the export trade. Cotton is exported to India without involvement of any public sector agency; basmati and other types of rice are exported through the Rice Exportation Corporation of Paki- stan, Ltd., but private traders are also allowed to export rice. Cement, which may be exported by pub- lic and private sector entities, is subject to a quota. Chemical fertilizers may also be exported by private sector units. Trade samples that may be exported without prior approval from the State Bank are lim- ited to the equivalent of $2,000 a firm a year; the 3Prohibited exports include ferrous and nonferrous metals (ex- cluding iron and steel manufac tured goods), unprocessed edible oils, certain grains, certain dairy products, certain live animals, certain beef and mutton, timber, certain hides and skins, pulses and beans, wet-blue leather made from cowhides and calfhides, charcoal, certain animal products, intoxicants, certain oil seeds, wooden crates, arms, ammunition, explosives, fissionable mate- rial, maps and charts, paper waste, unfinished hockey sticks and blades, human skeletons, certain imported goods, and antiques. limit for leather garments is 50 pieces, without a value limit. There are no quantitative or value ceil- ings if samples are damaged. The State Bank requires a declaration from the exporter that pay- ment will be received in accordance with the pre- scribed method and within the prescribed time except for goods manufactured in the export pro- cessing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The surrender of afghanis accruing from exports to the Islamic State of Afghanistan is not required. Under the Export Processing Unit (EPU) Scheme, selected industries, raw materials, intermediate goods used for the manufacturing of exports, imports of machinery, and components not manu- factured locally are exempt from import duties and local taxes.4 The export-output ratio required to qualify for the EPU Scheme is 50 percent in the first two years and 60 percent in the third year and beyond. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports, with the exception of 24 specified items,5 based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme or, alternatively, based on the exporter's performance in the previous year on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. How- ever, the State Bank is phasing out its outstanding stock of concessional loans to the export sector at the rate of 25 percent a year, so as to eliminate the out- standing amount by July 1,1996. Under the new sys- tem, state bank refinancing in excess of the above limit is held in a blocked account (special deposit account) in favor of the lending bank. Interest at a rate of 3 percent above the rate applicable to the loan is paid on the account, providing de facto a 3 percent interest subsidy to the exporter. The amount refi- 4The industries included are those producing textiles and cloth- ing (other than spinning), leather and leather manufactures, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, engineering and electronics equipment, ceramics, furn i ture, sporting goods, surgical instru- ments, and cutlery. 5The following are exceptions: raw cotton; cotton yarn; fish other than that which is frozen or preserved; mutton and beef; pe- troleum products; raw vegetable material; wool and animal hair; raw animal material; animal fodder; all grains including grain flour; stone, sand, and gravel; waste and scrap of all kinds; crude fertilizer; oilseeds, nuts, and kernels; jewelry exported under the Entrustment Scheme; live animals; hides and skins; wet-blue leather; inorganic elements, oxides, etc.; crude minerals; works of art and antiques; all metals; furs; and wood in rough or squared form. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 PAKISTAN nanced by the State Bank totaled PRs 48.7 billion as of December 31,1995; of this amount, PRs 27.5 billion was outstanding against the special deposit account. Rebates of 25 percent and 50 percent are available against the tax payable on income attributable to the sales proceeds from exports of semifinished goods and finished goods, respectively, that are manufac- tured in Pakistan. For value-added items, such as engineering equipment, garments, leather and leather products, textile products, and hand-knotted carpets and rugs, the rate of rebate is 75 percent; the rebate rate on engineering goods is 90 percent. Industrial units established under the PAYE scheme are permitted to use a maximum of 50 percent of the f.o.b. value of exports for payments of foreign exchange obligations in respect of their debt liability, and other foreign exchange payments on account of royalty, technical fees, and incidental charges. Under the Open Bond Manufacturing Scheme, raw materi- als and intermediate goods imported or purchased locally and used for manufacturing for exports are exempt from import duties and local taxes. At present, the following industries are covered by this scheme: textiles and clothing (other than spinning), leather and leather manufactures, chemical and pharmaceutical, engineering and electronics, ceram- ics, furniture, sporting goods, and surgical instruments. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of afghanis, which may be retained, foreign exchange earned from invisibles must be surrendered within three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 500 a person in Pakistani currency notes from India; the limit for other sources is PRs 3,000 a person. There is no limit on the importa- tion of other currency notes and coins, except coins that are legal tender in India; these coins may be imported only up to the value of Indian Rs 5 a per- son at a time. Travel and tour agents are permitted to retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for marketing and related export promotion expenses. Capital Approval from the Government is required for the establishment of industries involving (1) arms and ammunition; (2) printing securities and currency and minting coins; (3) high explosives; (4) radioac- tive substances (investments in these areas by domestic investors are also subject to approval); and (5) agricultural land, forestry irrigation, real estate, insurance, and health. Currently, the Foreign Private Investment (Promo- tion and Protection) Act of 1976 does not guarantee repatriation of capital for investments undertaken before September 1954. These investments are regu- lated by the terms and conditions governing each investment. Public limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan and private limited or unlisted public limited companies engaged in manu- facturing are permitted to issue or transfer and export shares on a repatriable basis against payment in foreign exchange to the following nonresidents: (1) a Pakistani national residing abroad, (2) a person holding two nationalities including Pakistani nation- ality, (3) a foreign national, (4) a company incorpo- rated outside Pakistan (excluding branches in Pakistan of such companies), and (5) a company owned or controlled by a foreign government. The above nonresidents are allowed to trade freely in the shares quoted on the stock exchanges in Pakistan as well as the government securities (fed- eral investment bonds and Treasury bills) through special convertible rupee accounts with banks in Pakistan. Such accounts are to be fed by remittances from abroad or by transfer from a foreign currency account of the nonresident in Pakistan. Foreign nationals can make investments in gov- ernment securities and in the units of national investment trusts on a repatriable basis against pay- ment in foreign exchange. Pakistani nationals resid- ing abroad are also allowed to. invest in units of national investment trust on a repatriable basis against payment in foreign exchange. Nonresidents, as defined in (1) to (5), above, are permitted to invest in registered corporate debt instruments on a repatriable basis against payment in foreign exchange. Foreign nationals in or outside Pakistan may reg- ister their investments made in foreign exchange in national prize bonds issued by the Government; the principal of such transactions may be repatriated at any time, but the prize bonds are treated as savings for the purpose of foreign exchange regulations on outward transfers. Nonresidents, including foreign-controlled com- panies incorporated in Pakistan, can make invest- ments in Pakistani securities of all types, excluding shares of companies not quoted on stock exchanges, against payment in Pakistani rupees on a nonrepa- triable basis of capital and dividends/profits. Foreign banks functioning in Pakistan may under- write share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan to the extent of 30 percent of the capital offered to the general public for subscription or 30 percent of its own paid-up capital and reserve, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 371 whichever is less. The foreign banks may also under- write public issues of participation term certificates, term finance certificates, and modaraba certificates provided that when the terms and conditions of their issue grant holders the option to convert the securities into ordinary shares, the restriction of 30 percent, as mentioned above, would apply. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresi- dent capital assets not covered by repatriation arrange- ments must be credited to nonresident accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistani rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. Resident Pakistani nationals require prior approval from the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and liquidation pro- ceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through nor- mal banking channels. Gold The exportation of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank; such permission is not usually granted. Pakistani nationals and foreign nationals coming from abroad are allowed to bring in unlimited quantities of gold in their personal bag- gage. Similarly, individual firms or companies who are residents of Pakistan are allowed to import up to 500 troy ounces at a time. Changes During 1995 Resident and Nonresident Accounts March 31. Resident individuals and firms were allowed to make investments in foreign companies through FEBCs, subject to the condition that earn- ings would be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds July 31. Exporters were allowed to obtain short- term foreign currency loans from abroad based on the value of the export contract; both principal and interest would have to be serviced from the export proceeds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Bal- boa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B 1 per $1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is limited to coins, including several commemorative coins in small denominations. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Panama accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on November 26,1946. Administration of Control In general, import or export licenses are not required. Only a few products are banned or require special import permits. Individuals or companies engaged in import activities require a commercial or industrial license, which is issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MICI). Specific export licenses are required for products that are subject to export taxes and for certain other goods; these licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The MICI, through the Panama Trade Development Institute, is responsible for determin- ing all aspects of agreements on free trade and bilat- eral preferential treatment with countries in the region. Panama has bilateral trade agreements with Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Under an agreement with Mexico, 70 products may be exported to Mexico at preferential conditions. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MIDA) and the Agricultural Marketing Institute (IMA), through various product-specific commis- sions, determine the import quotas for certain agri- cultural commodities. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. However, in May 1995, Panama reached agreement-in-principle with its creditor banks and suppliers on a debt and debt-service reduction oper- ation of $3.5 billion. This agreement was to be con- cluded in the spring of 1996. In December 1995, agreement was reached to refinance enterprise debt in arrears. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions on industrial products, but import quotas established by the MIDA and the IMA are maintained on some prod- ucts in the agricultural sector and agro-industries, including timber, salt, fishmeal, milk, and sugar. Imports by the public sector are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. A harmonized commodity description and coding system for customs tariffs was introduced on Janu- ary 1, 1995. Most tariff rates are on an ad valorem basis and are assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. For some products, the tax is specific and is calcu- lated on the basis of weight (per kilogram). In cases where both tax rates are stated, the applicable rate is the one that produces the higher tax revenue. If the tax is specific, an additional tax of 7.5 percent on the c.i.f. value of imports is charged, except for (1) speci- fied pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the additional tax rates are 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; (2) books and certain agri- cultural inputs, which are duty free; and (3) speci- fied raw materials for manufacturing, for which the tax is 5 percent. Many local industries are protected by tariffs aimed at promoting local and export industries. A tariff reform program involving reduc- tions in tariff ceilings and conversion of specific tar- iffs to ad valorem rates was implemented in August 1991 and continued into 1994. Effective January 1, 1996, tariffs on the main agricultural products, except corn and soybeans1 were reduced; the present range of tariffs for the main agricultural products is between 15 percent and 80 percent. In addition, tar- iffs on raw materials for the manufacturing sector were reduced to a uniform rate of 3 percent from a wide range of tariffs. All imports into the city of Colon designated as the Colon free zone and the newly established export-processing zones are exempt from duties. tariffs on soybeans were increased to 50 percent from 40 percent, and tariffs on corn were increased to 70 percent from 40 percent. 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds PANAMA Gold 373 Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unrefined sugar, coco- nuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of firearms and ammunition are prohibited. Certain nontraditional exports (with a minimum local cost-of-production content of 20 percent) are eligible for tax credit certif- icates equivalent to 20 percent of value added. The export-processing zones are exempt from all taxes (and as such receive no tax credit certificates). Pro- ceeds from exports are not subject to exchange control. Any product (including raw materials and machinery) may be imported into the Colon free zone, and stored, modified, processed, assembled, repacked and re-exported without being subject to customs procedures. Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form, at home or abroad, and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry car- ried as personal effects by travelers, require a license if made by residents other than the monetary author- ities; import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 percent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5 percent. Changes During 1995 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Imports and Import Payments Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on tickets pur- chased for travel starting in Panama. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents are not subject to exchange con- trol. Some foreign-controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. January 1. A harmonized commodity description and coding system for custom tariffs was introduced. November 1. Import tariffs on raw materials for manufacturing were reduced to a uniform rate of 3 percent; previously there was a wide range of tar- iffs on these goods. December 20. Import tariffs on the main agricul- tural products, except those on corn and soybeans, were reduced effective January 1, 1996. Tariffs on corn and soybeans were to be increased to 70 percent and 50 percent, respectively, effective April 1,1996. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina, the external value of which is determined freely in the interbank market where the authorized dealer banks participate with the Bank of Papua New Guinea, which acts as broker. The clos- ing rate in the interbank market becomes the official exchange rate, which on December 31,1995, for the U.S. dollar was K 1 per $0.7490. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions with their customers within a maximum spread between the buying and selling rates of 2 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exporters and importers are free to take out for- ward cover with the commercial banks at market- determined rates. Each commercial bank is subject to a prudential limit on its uncovered forward posi- tion. At its discretion, the Bank of Papua New Guinea may intervene in the forward foreign exchange market. Papua New Guinea accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on December 4,1975. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Banking Act (Foreign Exchange and Gold Regula- tions, Chapter 138). Overall policy is determined by the Government in consultation with the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign A f fa i rs and Trade. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Papua New Guinea notified the Fund on July 22, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia / Montenegro). Contractual commitments to persons residing out- side Papua New Guinea and expressed in a foreign currency must be paid in foreign currency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Foreign Currency Accounts Authorized foreign exchange dealers (at present, the six commercial banks) may open and maintain foreign currency accounts and foreign currency term deposits in Papua New Guinea for residents and nonresidents. For resident business entities, the account holders are required to obtain the approval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea, except for term deposits that are placed for a minimum of 90 days. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for reasons of health and security, and imports of a number of items, including sugar, poul- try, and pork, are prohibited to protect domestic markets. The importation of most fresh fruits and vegetables is banned (except for apples, onions, and potatoes for processing). In the event of shortages on the domestic market, special import licenses are issued and imports are subject to a 50 percent tariff. Authorized dealers may, without referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea, approve applications for import transactions that are not subject to quotas or licensing requirements. The tariff regime consists of the following rates: (1) essential items, including food staples (rice and meat that are not produced domestically), and medical and educational sup- plies, duty free; (2) basic goods, including some con- sumer goods and raw materials, 8 percent or 11 percent; (3) intermediate goods, including goods with satisfactory domestic substitutes, 40 percent; (4) luxury goods, including jewelry, cosmetics, poker machines, and nonessential food and bever- age items, 55 percent (except for electrical ovens, television sets, cameras, video recorders, and hi-fi equipment, for which the tariff rate is 10 percent); and (5) selected goods produced locally (tinned mackerel, citrus fruits), 15 percent or 100 percent. foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 375 Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily granted for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation is produced. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve payments and transfers up to the equiv- alent of K 500,000 a year for any purpose for all adult individuals or corporations. Payments and transfers in excess of the equivalent of K 500,000, except trade- related payments or payments for the servicing of for- eign debt, must be referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for approval. Payments for the servicing of foreign debt may be approved without a fixed limit by authorized dealers. For payments or transfers exceeding K 50,000 a year, a certificate of tax payment is required. Travelers wishing to take or send out Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin must obtain the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Over- seas visitors are free to take out any currency they brought in and declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formalities on the condition that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payments for goods exported must be received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds must be sold to authorized dealers in Papua New Guinea. When exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the gen- eral authority, they must apply to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for specific authoritization. No authori- tization is needed for certain categories of goods, including travelers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for certain goods (e.g., logs, pearls, fish- ery and marine products, woodchips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra) under the Export (Valuation and Control) Act. Log export licenses are issued subject to minimum export price guidelines; there is no export license requirement on timber. Although exports of most unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been temporarily waived, except for fishery and forestry products. Export taxes on logs range from 15 percent to 70 per- cent. Fish exports are subject to a 10 percent tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds, other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer in Papua New Guinea, or for its reten- tion. Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange earnings from any source without the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Over- seas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenses. Capital Outward transfers of foreign-owned capital are allowed, provided that tax clearance certificates are produced. Direct investments outside Papua New Guinea are subject to certain limitations. Authorized dealers may approve outward investments by resi- dent individuals and corporations up to the equiva- lent of K 500,000 a year; investments in excess of the equivalent K 500,000 require the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Income from the invest- ment must be returned to Papua New Guinea as received. Prior clearance from the tax authorities is required for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 50,000 in any calendar year. Permission is required for residents to enter into an agreement to borrow in foreign currencies. However, authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve offshore foreign currency borrowing by residents, other than businesses involved in the for- estry sector or mineral resources exploration, with- out limit, provided that the term is for not less than one year and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels specified by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Repayment of principal is subject to a six-month moratorium, commencing on the date of disbursements. A maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to net outstanding borrowing. In the case of a business involved in mineral resource exploration activities, inward investment is consid- ered non-interest-bearing equity or loan funds (including preference shares) until the business is successful, at which point any excess above the m in imum debt-to-equity ratio specified for that operation can be converted into an interest-bearing loan. There are no restrictions on direct investment and for inward portfolio investment. Gold Dealings in gold in Papua New Guinea are not regulated. The exportation of gold is restricted to licensed gold exporters. For the large mines, the licenses are contained in their respective mining agreements. For exports of alluvial gold, specific export licenses are required from the Bank of Papua New Guinea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement PAPUA NEW GUINEA Foreign Currency Accounts August 14. The screen-based foreign exchange market was introduced, replacing the twice-daily "open-outcry" auctions, which were introduced as a transitional arrangement after the transition to the float in October 1994. August 14. The authority to open residents' for- eign exchange accounts was returned to the Bank of Papua New Guinea, following the discovery of some commercial banks' failure to comply with the regu- lations regarding the reporting of transactions in those accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. The Central Bank of Paraguay, however, intervenes in the market to smooth out any sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate of the guarani due to seasonal changes in demand or supply conditions as well as to speculative capital flows. The intervention cur- rency is the U.S. dollar. Private transactions in respect of merchandise imports and exports, ser- vices, and capital are carried out through the autho- rized commercial banks; public transactions are carried out through the Central Bank of Paraguay or commercial banks. On December 31,1995, the aver- age rate prevailing in the interbank market for the U.S. Dollar was G 1.987 per $1. Public debt-service payments and payments for services by the Govern- ment are channeled through the Central Bank of Par- aguay at the rate prevailing on the day of the transaction. No commissions are assessed on these transactions if debtors have foreign exchange deposit accounts with the Central Bank of Paraguay. The commercial banks may maintain a daily for- eign exchange overbought position not exceeding 100 percent of their capital and reserves, or an over- sold position of up to 50 percent of their capital reserves. Exchange houses may maintain a daily overbought position of $250,000. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Paraguay accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on August 23,1994. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay has the authority, under the Constitution, to determine foreign exchange policy in consultation with other agencies of the Government. In practice, decisions are taken by the Economic Cabinet on the advice of the Cen- tral Bank of Paraguay, who is responsible for the exe- cution of the decisions of the Economic Cabinet. The Central Bank of Paraguay supervises, through the Superintendency of Banks, foreign exchange trans- actions carried out by the banks and the exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Ven- ezuela are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the mul- tilateral clearing arrangements of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LAIA). Clearing takes place every four months. There are no other pre- scription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products that may be harmful to public health, national security, or animal or plant health are prohibited; these restrictions, however, may be waived to ensure adequate domestic sup- plies. All importers must be registered at the Central Bank of Paraguay. All trade barriers within the Southern Cone Com- mon Market (MERCOSUR; comprising Paraguay, Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay) were eliminated on December 31, 1994. Under the MERCOSUR, which came into force on January 1,1995, common external tariff (CET) rates were established with certain exceptions. There are 11 different tariff levels, rang- ing from zero to 20 percent. The implementation of the MERCOSUR pact has increased Paraguay's import duties, although the main effects have been delayed due to extensive exceptions for imports of capital, telecommunications, and automotive goods. Para- guay was allowed to exempt 399 other items from the CET, consisting mostly of production inputs and goods destined for the tourist industry and the re- export market. These exemptions are to be phased out by 2006 by gradually raising tariff rates —to 14 percent on most capital goods and to 20 percent for telecommunications. Typical rates on exemptions from the CET are raw materials and intermediate goods, zero percent; capital goods, 5 percent; items for tourism, 6 percent; consumer goods, 10 percent; vehicles whose c.i.f. value exceeds $10,000, 15 per- cent; and vehicles whose c.i.f. value exceeds $20,000, 20 percent. Similarly, Paraguay was allowed 427 exceptions to the free trade agreement on intra- MERCOSUR trade that has enabled it to maintain pro- 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 PARAGUAY tective tariffs ranging from 6 percent to 30 percent on some domestically produced manufactures and agricultural products. The exceptions to the free trade agreement are to be phased out by 2001. When import payments are made under the LAIA Recipro- cal Payments Agreement, the Central Bank of Para- guay levies a commission of 0.125 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are carried out through commercial banks or exchange houses with- out restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. A 2.5 percent value- added tax is levied on international air transport tickets issued in the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and unprocessed forest products, rawhides, and wild animals are prohibited. Certain other exports require prior authorization from the appropriate agency. All other exports are not restricted, except with regard to the technical stan- dards imposed by the National Institute of Technol- ogy and Standardization, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the product exported. All exporters are required to be registered at the Central Bank of Paraguay. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 120 days after completion of the banking formalities related to the shipping documents, but may be retained by exporters. exchange market is allowed—subject to a 5 percent levy, payment of income tax, and prior authorization of the Central Bank of Paraguay. The Government may grant exemptions from taxes, customs, and import surcharges on proposed investments that are duly registered and approved. Gold The Central Bank of Paraguay may prescribe the maximum amount of gold that residents may hold. This requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank of Paraguay or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. The exportation and importation of gold by nonbank res- idents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior authorization of the Central Bank of Paraguay. Payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through commercial banks. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement February 17. All records on foreign exchange trans- actions through banks and exchange bureaus in excess of $10,000 should be kept for five years to facilitate the equivalent of Central Bank of Paraguay control on money laundering. Proceeds from Invisibles Imports and Import Payments There are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles, except for royalties and remunera- tion from the binational entities, which are trans- ferred in full to the Central Bank of Paraguay, for the account of the Ministry of Finance. Similarly, admin- istrative expenditure outlays of the binational enti- ties are paid through the operating banks. Capital All capital transfers must be channeled through the commercial banks or exchange bureaus, and records on transactions exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 should be kept for five years by these institu- tions to facilitate Central Bank of Paraguay control on money laundering. Also, for statistical purposes, banks and exchange bureaus should report all inter- national movements of foreign banknotes and coins to the Superintendency of Banks. Repatriation of earnings of foreign enterprises through the free January 1. The Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) took effect, imposing a common external tariff (CET) ranging from zero to 20 percent on imports from non-MERCOSUR countries and a zero tariff on intra-MERCOSUR trade. Paraguay is allowed exemptions from the CET for capital goods, telecom- munications products, automotive products, and 399 other selected items, consisting mostly of inputs to production and goods destined to the tourist industry. There are also 427 exceptions to the agree- ment for duty-free intra-MERCOSUR trade. All quanti- tative restrictions on imports and exports were eliminated. Capital June 29. The Central Bank of Paraguay law was approved. The law defines the scope of foreign exchange transactions and the Central Bank of Para- guay exchange policy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 379 October 25. The requirement that banks and exchange bureaus report international movements of foreign banknotes and coins (currency, amount, and geographic origin or destiny of the transfer) was extended to include reporting to the Superinten- dency of Banks for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of December 33,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Nuevo Sol, the exter- nal value of which is freely determined by partici- pants in the exchange market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. On December 31,1995, the average interbank transaction rate, as registered and published by the Superintendency of Banking, was S/. 2.311, per $1. Exchange transactions may be con- ducted in any currency, including the U.S. dollar, and the cross rate relationships with currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar in the international market. Since 1991, the exchange system has been free of controls on both current and capital transactions. Enterprises and natural persons may hold foreign exchange balances abroad and in domestic banks. There are arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating only in the commercial banking sector. Bank accounts in foreign currencies may be held with domestic banks. Peru accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 15,1961. Administration of Control Exchange houses are authorized to purchase for- eign exchange and traveler's checks from residents and nonresidents and to sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for repurchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- ernment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by supreme decree, within the limits established by the Financing Requirement Law of the public sector. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments on nonguaranteed credits of suppliers, commercial banks, and official loans obtained from Eastern European countries. Prescription of Currency Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Malaysia, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods are prohibited from all sources for social, health, or security reasons. No other imports are restricted. Imports of raw materi- als and intermediate goods are exempt from import duties, provided that the appropriate ministry deter- mines that such imports qualify under the Tempo- rary Admission Regime. All monopolies on the importation of goods have been abolished, includ- ing the monopoly over the importation of milk pow- der and wheat by the National Enterprise for Input Marketing, and that over crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives by PETROPERU, a state-owned enterprise. With some specified exemptions, imported goods are subject to a uniform value-added tax of 18 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports in addition to the import duty; exempted from the value-added tax are some agricultural products. The tariff regime consists of two basic rates: 25 percent (maximum) affecting 15 percent of products and 15 percent for the remainder, excluding imports subject to trade agreements. Agricultural products are subject to a variable import surcharge. Advance payments for all imports are allowed without restriction. Legislation has been enacted requiring preinspection at the port of embarkation by international firms for imports exceeding $2,000 (f.o.b.). Payments for Invisibles Payments for almost all invisibles other than pub- lic debt service are not subject to payment authorization. Remittances of net profits are permitted freely. For- eign investment by petroleum companies is subject to special contracts with the Peruvian Government. Exports and Export Proceeds Export prohibitions apply to 75 items, mainly rare wildlife (including wild animal skins and textiles made from them), plants, cottonseed cakes, natural rubber, and mineral ores. State enterprise monopo- lies over the exportation of mining and petroleum products were eliminated in 1991. Proceeds from 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 381 exports are not subject to a repatriation requirement. A list of items excluded from the drawback to exports was abolished (R.M. No. 137-95-EF) on Sep- tember 3,1995. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements. Capital Outward capital transfers, including amortization of private sector debts that are not guaranteed by the Government, are not restricted. Short-term trade credits that have been subject to a refinancing agreement or assumed by the Govern- ment began to be rolled over beginning August 1, 1983. Other short-term trade credits may be repaid in accordance with bilateral agreements concluded before June 1992 or through renegotiation after that date with the approval of the External Debt Commit- tee. Short-term trade and working capital credits began to be rolled over beginning March 8,1983. New foreign investments must be registered with the National Commission on Foreign Investment and Technology. Foreign companies incorporated in Peru may benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement under the same conditions as domestic enterprises. Investments in the mining sector are governed by the General Mining Law, enacted in June 1992. The Government may grant tax incentives to mining concessionaires (initiating large-scale investment programs). Under the Private Sector Investment Guarantee Regime, the Government guarantees nondiscrimina- tory treatment for foreign investors and private enterprises, protection of property rights, the devel- opment of any economic activity, free internal and external trade, and capital repatriation. In addition, investors may enter into contracts that guarantee tax stability, nondiscriminatory treatment, foreign cur- rency availability, capital repatriation, free labor con- tracts, and export incentives. Gold The exportation and importation of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1995 Exports and Export Proceeds June 23. A drawback of 5 percent on the f.o.b. value of exports is to be restituted to the exporter or export good's producer when (1) the c.i.f. value of the imported intermediate goods used to produce the exported good is less than 50 percent of the f.o.b. value of the latter; and (2) the f.o.b. value of the cor- respondent item was not more than $10 million in 1994 (Decreto Supremo No. 104-95-EF). September 3. A list of items excluded from the drawback to exports was published (R.M. No. 137- 95-EF). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and in light of their other policy objectives in the medium term. On December 31, 1995, the reference exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was P26.214 per $1. The Central Bank of the Philippines, officially known as the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, is not governed by the trading rules of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange, except for transactions conducted at the trading center. Commercial banks trade in for- eign exchange through the Philippine Dealing Sys- tem (PDS) or by telephone. All forward transactions to purchase foreign exchange, including renewals thereof, from nonresidents require prior approval of the Central Bank. There is a forward exchange cover scheme for oil import payments, although the cover period has been phased down to 90 days from 180 days by the end of 1995. The Philippines accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on September 8,1995. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. Without prior approval, non-Philippine nationals not otherwise disqualified by law may engage in business in the Philippines or invest in a domestic enterprise up to 100 percent of their capital except in areas restricted by law. Non- residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized agent banks only up to the amount they have converted into pesos through the banking sys- tem or deposited in foreign currency accounts. Foreign exchange may be freely sold and pur- chased outside the banking system. Foreign exchange received in the Philippines or acquired abroad may be deposited in accounts denominated in foreign currency. However, in order that foreign loans and foreign investments can be serviced with foreign exchange purchased from the banking sys- tem, the investments must be registered with the Central Bank, and the loans must be approved, reg- istered with, or reported to the Central Bank. All cat- egories of banks (except offshore banking units) duly licensed by the Central Bank are considered authorized agent banks. Thrift banks may be autho- rized to offer foreign currency accounts, subject to prudential regulations. The entry of foreign banks to operate in the Philip- pines has been liberalized. Their entry can be effected through a purchase of 60 percent of the vot- ing stock of an existing domestic bank or of a new banking subsidiary incorporated in the Philippines or through the establishment of branches with full banking authority, subject to the licensing require- ments of the Central Bank; 14 foreign banks were operating at the end of 1995. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments for outgoing payments, but all exchange pro- ceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Payments may be made in pesos for exports to member countries of the Associ- ation of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), pro- vided that the Central Bank is not asked to intervene in the clearing of any balances from this payment scheme. Authorized agent banks may accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for con- version into pesos. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of individual or corporate non- residents without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of for- eign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income earned from the Philippines belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for withdrawals in pesos. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guil- ders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and other such currencies that may be declared acceptable by the Central Bank. 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 383 Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Pro- ceeds from Invisibles, below). Residents are allowed to maintain deposits abroad without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. However, the importation of cer- tain products is regulated or restricted for reasons of public health and safety, national security, interna- tional commitments, and development and protec- tion of local industries. Goods are classified into three categories: freely importable, regulated, and prohibited. Applications to import freely importable products may be pro- cessed by authorized agent banks without prior approval or clearance from any government agency. To import regulated products, a clearance of permit is required from the appropriate government agency (including the Central Bank). Prohibited products are those that may not be imported under existing laws. Under the Comprehensive Imports Supervision Scheme (CISS), preshipment inspection is required for imports valued at more than $500 from all coun- tries. Imports declared in the shipping documents as off-quality, used, secondhand, scraps, off-grade, or a similar term indicating that the article is not brand new are subject to CISS inspection even if the value of the imports is less than $500. Certain exemptions are specifically provided if shipment is duty exempt or when inspection is deemed impractical. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange to service payments for imports under letters of credit (LCs), documents against acceptance (DAs), docu- ments against payments (DPs), open account (OAs) arrangement, and direct remittance. LCs must be opened on or before the date of shipment with a validity period of up to one year. Only one LC may be opened for each import transaction; amendments to such an arrangement need not be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval, except when the amendment extends the total validity of the LC beyond one year. Imports under DA and OA arrangements must be registered with the Central Bank for monitoring purposes; prior approval of the Central Bank, regardless of maturity, is not required as long as these are importations of freely import- able goods not guaranteed by foreign governments/ official credit agencies. Any extension of maturities must be reported to the Central Bank 30 days before the effective date. Import arrangements not involv- ing payments using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, such as self-funded or no- dollar imports and importation on consignment basis, are allowed without prior approval from the Central Bank. The tariff structure has four standard tariff bands: 3 percent, 10 percent, 20 percent, and 30 percent. Tar- iff rates on products in the higher bands will be phased down gradually, so that by the year 2003, vir- tually all products will be subject to a 3 percent band for raw materials or 10 percent for finished products. Tariff rates on imported capital goods are 3 percent and 10 percent, the former rate applying to goods not produced domestically. Exemptions to the tariff structure are as follows: (1) the applicable standard rate may be increased up to twice its value for final products of basic industries registered with "pio- neer" status at the Board of Investment (BOI); (2) tar- iffs of up to double the standard rate (or up to negotiated bindings, in the case of agricultural prod- ucts being liberalized under the World Trade Orga- nization (WTO) agreement) may be imposed on products for which quantitative restrictions are being removed; and (3) imported capital goods may be duty exempt for firms registered with the BOI prior to January 1, 1995, or if subject to the provi- sions of two existing laws: RA 7369 and RA 7844, the Export Development Act. Some 300 capital goods (as specified under a 1992 law, RA 7369), as well as imports of machinery, equipment, and accompany- ing spare parts used in the manufacture of export products have zero duties. The BOI no longer offers tax and du ty exemptions on imports of capital equipment and spare parts; instead, newly register- ing firms are able only to obtain duty reductions, to the minimum rate of 3 percent, on their eligible imports. Tariff rates for the textile and garments sec- tor are 3 percent for inputs and 30 percent for final products. Legislation to remove quantitative restric- tions on corn, wheat, and certain other agricultural products, with the exception of rice, has been pre- sented to Congress. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange to residents for payments of any nontrade transaction against appropriate written applications without limit and without prior approval from the Central Bank, provided that (1) for sales of foreign exchange exceeding $25,000, banks must require a written application and supporting documents from the buyer of the foreign exchange; and (2) for sales of foreign exchange not exceeding $25,000, no written application or supporting documents will be required from the buyer, but the buyer must disclose to the bank concerned the specific purpose for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 PHILIPPINES purchase. For payments related to foreign loans or investments, banks must require documentation showing central bank approval and/or registration for the loan or investment. Unregistered loans and investments can be serviced also through transac- tions in the nonbank market. Full and immediate repatriation of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents from all types of investment may be effected directly through commercial banks without prior approval from the Central Bank. However, service payments relating to foreign loans or foreign direct invest- ments effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are limited to those transactions whose original capital transfer has pre- viously been registered with the Central Bank. Ser- vice payments related to option-to-purchase or transfer of ownership at a later date do not require prior central bank approval. Remittances of profits, dividends, and earnings made in connection with the program for the con- version of external debt into equity investments are unrestricted. Resident and nonresident travelers must have prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than PI 0,000 in domestic banknotes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. When traveling abroad, citizens of the Philippines must pay a travel tax of P2,700 for first-class passage and PI ,620 for econ- omy-class passage. Reduced rates of PI ,350 for first- class passengers and P810 for economy-class passen- gers are provided for groups of people traveling for recognized special purposes. Reduced rates of P400 for first-class passengers and P300 for economy-class passengers are provided for dependents of contract workers duly registered with the Philippine Over- seas Employment Administration. Departing non- residents are allowed to reconvert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos of up to a maxi- mum of $200 or an equivalent amount in other for- eign exchange (calculated at prevailing exchange rates) without proof of sales of foreign exchange by authorized agent banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are allowed without restriction, except for those that are regulated or prohibited for reasons of national interest. Exports of selected seeds and shoots of native plants, endangered fish and wildlife (including selected marine species), and stalactites and stalagmites are prohibited. All exports must be covered by export declara- tions duly prepared by the exporter. Authorized agent banks may issue and amend an export decla- ration before negotiation without prior approval from the Central Bank. Payments for exports may be made in prescribed currencies, under the following forms without prior central bank approval: LC, DP, DA, and OA; cash against documents arrangements; consignment; export advance; and prepayment. Payments for export advances and prepayments are no longer subject to a time limit of 30 days. Foreign currency deposit units and authorized agent banks may purchase export bills directly from exporters and indirect exporters, subject to certain conditions (Circular No. 16 of March 7,1994). There are no surrender requirements. Foreign exchange receipts or earnings of residents from exports may be sold for pesos to authorized banks or outside the banking system, retained, or deposited in foreign currency accounts, whether in the Philip- pines or abroad, and they may be used freely for any purpose. There are no export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no mandatory surrender requirements on proceeds from invisibles, which may be used without restriction. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency. The importation of domestic banknotes, coins, checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos exceed- ing PI 0,000 requires prior authorization from the Central Bank. Capital Registration of inward investments with the Cen- tral Bank is required only if the foreign exchange needed to service the repatriation of capital and remittances of dividends and profits from these investments is to be funded through the banking system. When applications for central bank registra- tion of new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) are reviewed, no priority or preference is given to the category of industry in which the invest- ment is made, as long as they are funded by (1) inward remittance of foreign exchange for cash investments which may be either converted into pesos or deposited in foreign currency deposit accounts in local banks of the domestic investor firm, or (2) in the case of investment in kind, there has been an actual transfer of assets to the Philip- pines. Full and immediate repatriation is guaranteed on all central bank-registered foreign investments without restriction. Foreign companies are eligible to obtain loans in domestic currency from banks or nonbank financial institutions, provided that they have a maximum ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 385 debt-equity ratio of 70:30 in high-priority sectors (i.e., firms registered under RA 5786 or RA 6135, Philip- pine Export Zone Authority registered firms, Central Bank or central bank-certified firms, and firms engaged in vital industries under Circular 870); a maximum ratio of 65:35 (i.e., firms engaged in other manufacturing activities); and a maximum ratio of 60:40 in low-priority sectors (i.e., firms engaged in nonmanufacturing activities). Investments in domes- tic commercial banks registered with the Central Bank may be repatriated without restriction. Foreign direct investments may be (1) foreign equity in Philippine firms or enterprises; (2) invest- ment in government securities or securities listed on the stock exchange; or (3) investment in money instruments or bank deposits. Foreign direct equity investment may be in cash or in kind. Investments are permitted in connection with the Program for the Conversion of Philippine External Debt into Equity Investments. Under this program, most categories of external debt, including rescheduled debt, may be converted into equity investment. In 1993, however, investments permitted under the Debt-to-Equity Conversion Program of the Central Bank were sus- pended, except the debt swap for high social impact projects. In 1994, the Government liberalized, under RA 7721, the entry and scope of operations of foreign banks to operate in the Philippines subject to prior approval by the Central Bank Monetary Board. Investments in domestic commercial banks and in local branches of foreign banks made prior to the enactment of RA 7721 as well as investments of for- eign banks established under RA 7721 and regis- tered with the Central Bank may be repatriated without restriction, subject to submission of certain documentary requirements, including clearance from the appropriate central bank supervision and examination departments. Under the Foreign Investments Act of 1991, non- Philippine nationals not otherwise disqualified by law may, upon registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission, conduct business in the country or invest in domestic enterprises up to 100 percent of capital unless participation is prohibited or limited by existing law. However, enterprises seeking to apply for incentives, as well as foreign investors in export enterprises, must also register with the Board of Investments. Issues of securities abroad by residents under initial public offering are required to advise the Central Bank of receipt of pro- ceeds within five days. Outward investments by resident natural and juridical persons may be made freely, except those purchased from authorized agent banks that exceed $6 million an investor a year; such investments require prior central bank approval and registration. All public sector loans from foreign creditors, off- shore banking units, and foreign currency deposit units (FCDUs), except short-term FCDU loans, must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval even before actual negotiations commence. Loans of the private sector, irrespective of matu- rity, creditor, and the source of foreign exchange for servicing thereof, if guaranteed by government cor- porations and /or government financial institutions or local commercial banks or granted by FCDUs and specifically or directly funded from, or collateralized by, offshore loans or deposits, likewise require prior central bank approval or registration. Refinancing of such loans would require prior central bank approval. Otherwise, private sector loans from FCDUs and offshore sources, irrespective of matu- rity, to be serviced with foreign exchange not pur- chased from the banking system do not require central bank approval or registration. Private sector short-term loans for trade purposes granted by FCDUs or under a central bank-approved or a noted foreign creditors' lending program but not guaran- teed by a government corporation, government financial institution, or local bank, and not refi- nanced by medium- and long-term foreign debt do not require prior approval from the Central Bank. These may be serviced with foreign exchange pur- chased from the banking system but must be reported to the Central Bank for registration purposes. The prepayment or acceleration of payments on medium- and long-term loans duly registered with the Central Bank that takes place within two years of final maturity is exempt from prior approval by the Central Bank. Loans requiring prior central bank approval are normally expected to finance export-oriented projects and those registered with the Board of Investment, projects listed in the Investment Priori- ties Plan and the Medium-Term Public Investment Program, and projects that may be declared high pri- ority under the country's socioeconomic develop- ment plan by the National Economic and Development Authority or Congress. Inward remit- tances of loan proceeds intended to finance only local requirements of projects may be sold to the banking system or deposited in FCDUs and /or off- shore accounts. Proceeds intended to finance foreign costs must not be inwardly remitted and may be either paid directly to the supplier or beneficiary concerned, or deposited in an offshore account. Terms of loans to be obtained by the National Government must be in accordance with the provi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 PHILIPPINES sions of pertinent laws, while terms of other loans must be the same as those prevailing in the interna- tional capital markets. Commercial banks are allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions, subject to the limitation that long and short positions do not exceed 20 per- cent and 10 percent, respectively, of unimpaired cap- ital. Local branches of foreign banks licensed to engage in commercial banking in the Philippines must exclude their permanently assigned capital from their foreign exchange liabilities for purposes of computing their net foreign exchange position. All foreign exchange sales made through interna- tional ATMs and credit cards must be reported to the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank within two days; the annual limit on such sales was set at $50,000 a person. Foreign banks may operate in the Philippines through a purchase of 60 percent of the voting stock of an existing domestic bank or of a new banking subsidiary incorporated in the Philippines or through the establishment of branches with full banking authority, subject to the licensing require- ments of the Central Bank. At the end of 1995,14 for- eign banks had branches operating in the Philippines; 1 foreign bank had acquired 60 percent of the voting stock of an existing domestic bank; and 18 foreign banks were operating offshore units. For- eign banks with offshore units in the Philippines may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and with other off- shore banking units. They are permitted to lend to resident importers and exporters, provided that such loans do not have public guarantees, that the funds have been remitted from abroad and sold to the banking system, and that loans are authorized by the Central Bank. Offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos exclu- sively with domestic agent banks to meet adminis- trative and other operating expenses and to pay designated local beneficiaries of nonresident Philip- pine or multinational companies the equivalent of foreign exchange remittances channeled through the offshore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. Offshore banking units may also sell inward remittances of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. Gold Small-scale miners are required to sell all of their production to the Central Bank. All other forms or types of gold may be bought, and without specific approval, sold and delivered to the Central Bank. Producers selling gold to the Central Bank are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official international reserves. The Central Bank may sell gold grains, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jewelry manufacturers and other industrial users upon application, or to banks only for resale to jewelry manufacturers and industrial users, at the Central Bank's selling price for gold plus a service fee to cover costs, including the cost of conversion and packaging. The exportation of gold in any form, except that produced by small-scale miners, is permitted. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except coin blanks essentially of gold, gold coins, and coins without any indication of actual fineness of gold content. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank as follows: a 1 Peso Paul VI coin (1970); a 1,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975); a 1,500 Piso IMF-IBRD coin (1976); the 1,500 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coins (1977 and 1978); a 5,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1977); a 2,500 Piso Douglas MacArthur Centenary coin (1980); a 1,500 Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1980 and 1981); a 1,500 Piso Bataan-Corregidor coin (1982); a 2,500 Piso Aquino-Reagan coin (1986); a 10,000 Democracy Restored coin (1992); and 5,000 and 2,000 Piso Pope's Visit coins (1995). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 960 (Sections 175 and 176), dated October 21,1983. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The period of the forward exchange cover scheme for oil import payments was reduced to 90 days from 180 days. September 8. The Philippines accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariff rates on some 300 capital goods (as specified under a 1992 law, RA 7369), as well as on imports of machinery, equipment, and accompa- nying spare parts used in the manufacture of export products, were reduced to zero. February 24. New expanding or modernizing enterprises that have been registered with the Board of Investments on or before December 31, 1994, would be exempted from 100 percent of national internal revenue taxes and customs duties on impor- tations of machinery, equipment, and accompanying spare parts within the prescribed period under the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 387 law of registration or until December 31, 1997, whichever comes first. Those enterprises located outside the National Capital Region (NCR) may avail themselves of the aforementioned incentives until December 31, 1999. Enterprises registering after December 31,1994, would be subject to the pro- visions of RA 7716 and to a 3 percent customs du ty until December 31,1997. April 24. Works of art, current newspapers, peri- odicals, individually owned motor vehicles, and parcel post would be exempt from the requirement of inspection under the Global Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme. May 12. All imports of fresh, frozen, or chilled food- stuffs, fruits, and live animals shipped beginning May 27, 1995 (based on bill of lading or airway bill date) would be subject to the Societe Generale de Sur- veillance (SGS) preshipment inspection requirement. Payments for Invisibles July 1. The last round of tariff reductions under the Tariff Reform Program (TRP) of 1991 was intro- duced. As a result, the maximum tariff rate was reduced from 80 percent to 50 percent, and the num- ber of principal tariff rates for goods other than those liberalized in the context of the Import Liberal- ization Program was halved from 12 percent to 6 percent (3 percent, 5 percent, 10 percent, 20 percent, 30 percent, and 50 percent). The average nominal tariff rate declined to 19 percent from almost 28 per- cent at the beginning of the TRP. July 5. All imports from or exports to China would no longer require Philippine International Trading Corporation (PITC) clearance. July 22. A new tariff reduction program for indus- trial products, excluding capital goods and textile and garments sector products, was formulated for the period 1995-2000. The new tariff structure has only four standard tariff bands: 3 percent, 10 percent, 20 percent, and 30 percent. The average nominal tar- iff rate on industrial goods declined to 16 percent. August 29. Authorized agent banks (AABs) were to sell foreign exchange to residents for any non- trade purpose, without prior central bank approval, provided that (1) for sales of foreign exchange exceeding $25,000, the AAB would require a written application and supporting documents from the purchaser of the foreign exchange; and (2) for sales of foreign exchange not exceeding $25,000, no writ- ten application or supporting documents would be required from the purchaser who would only dis- close to the AAB concerned the specific purpose for the purchase, and the AAB would report the sale to the Central Bank under the appropriate report form. October 19. Motor vehicles, parts, and components that require prior clearance from the Department of Trade and Industry or the Board of Investments were deleted from the list of regulated imports. December 11. The importation (and exportation) and electronic transfers of legal tender Philippine notes and coins, checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos against banks oper- ating in the Philippines in an amount exceeding PI0,000 were prohibited without authorization by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds June 6. The requirement that foreign exchange earnings from export transactions negotiated through offshore banking units be surrendered to domestic banks was abolished. Capital February 23. The maximum allowed overbought foreign exchange position of commercial banks was reduced to 20 percent from 25 percent of unimpaired capital, and the maximum oversold position was raised to 10 percent from 5 percent (Central Bank Circular 63). April 12. Banks were allowed to avail themselves of the Exporters Dollar Facility (EDF) against the eli- gible dollar-denominated loans of their exporters- borrowers (both direct and indirect), including ser- vice exporters who are engaged in rendering techni- cal, professional, and other services. June 6. Offshore banking units (OBUs) were allowed to service importations through LC, DA, OA, and DP of resident borrowers, provided that such importations would be funded by a central bank-authorized OBU foreign currency loan to the resident-borrower involved, and provided fur ther that DA and OA imports channeled through and serviced by OBUs would be subject to the registra- tion and reporting requirements for DA and OA imports. October 31. The definition of "foreign firms" was amended to refer to (1) partnerships with more than 40 percent of their capital owned by non-Filipino cit- izens, and (2) corporations with more than 40 per- cent of their total subscribed capital stock owned by non-Filipino citizens. In determining capital stock ownership by non-Filipino citizens, the equity of multilateral financial institutions would be excluded. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Poland is the Zloty, the external value (central rate) of which is pegged to a basket of five currencies.1 The central rate is adjusted under a crawling peg policy at a preannounced rate. Since May 16, 1995, the National Bank of Poland has allowed the external value of the zloty (i.e., the mar- ket rate) to fluctuate within margins of ±7 percent around the central rate. The exchange rates between the zloty and other convertible currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned on international markets. The National Bank quotes exchange rates for the European currency unit (ECU), the SDR, and the currencies of 28 countries considered market-oriented economies.2 Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are set daily and are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the relevant currencies in interna- tional markets. Transactions between the National Bank and commercial banks are conducted in the interbank market. Banks are permitted to set buying and selling rates within a margin of 2 percent around the market rate, and their transactions with the National Bank take place at the market rate. The exchange rate on the foreign exchange bureau market, in which natural persons are allowed to transact freely, provided that the transaction is not a commercial one, is determined by market forces. On December 31,1995, the official rate for the U.S. dollar was Zl 2.4680 per $1.3 There are no formal forward exchange market arrangements, but a forward market exists for the ^he basket consists of (figures in parentheses represent weights) the U.S. dollar (45 percent); the deutsche mark (35 per- cent); the pound sterling (10 percent); the French f ranc (5 per- cent); and the Swiss f ranc (5 percent). On Janua ry 1, 1995, new currency notes and coins began to circulate, replacing old cur- rency at a conversion rate of 1 to 10,000. Old currency will remain in circulation until the end of 1996. 2Aus t ra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Iranian rials, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, U.S. dollars, and Yugoslav dinars. 3Foreign exchange bureaus (kantors) must obtain licenses to op- erate. They are permitted to purchase foreign exchange from the interbank market w i thout restriction. 388 stock market. However, large commercial banks pro- vide forward contracts if requested. Poland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1995. Administration of Control The authority to make basic changes in the For- eign Exchange Law rests with Parliament.4 Regula- tions are promulgated by the Minister of Finance in the form of general foreign exchange permits or by the president of the National Bank in the form of individual permits. General permits are issued for all residents and nonresidents and for specified groups. The procedures for issuing individual per- mits are established by the president of the National Bank in cooperation with the Minister of Finance. The authority to enforce foreign exchange regula- tions rests with the Minister of Finance, who exer- cises related functions mainly through the president of the National Bank. However, decisions concern- ing individual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the Min- istry of Finance, the National Bank, the foreign exchange banks, customs offices, the border guard, and post offices. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Poland notified the IMF that in compliance with UN Security Council Resolutions it had imposed certain restrictions on the making of pay- ments and transfers for current international trans- actions in respect of Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Outstanding balances under the (inoperative) bilateral payments agreements with Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Lebanon, and Turkey are being settled in accor- dance with the terms of the agreements. Balances outstanding under the arrangements of the Interna- tional Bank for Economic Cooperation are still being settled in transferable rubles. Settlements with all 4A new foreign exchange law was passed in December 1994 and came into effect on Janua ry 1,1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 389 other currencies may be made in any convertible currency. Since January 1, 1991, nearly all trade with the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) has been settled in convertible currencies; a limited amount of trade, both under pre-existing contracts and in settlement of ruble balances outstanding at the end of 1990, continue to be transacted in transferable rubles. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts: Residents, both natural and juridical persons, may hold foreign exchange in the form of currency and securities. Residents who are natural persons may maintain currency accounts ("A" accounts), and these accounts may be freely credited with convertible currency brought in or transferred from abroad and /or deposited without declaring the sources of funds. Account holders may use balances freely to effect transfers abroad, to buy goods and services, to finance tourist travel abroad by themselves or other persons, and to effect gifts to family members or other persons. Balances in these accounts cannot be used to effect settle- ments between individuals but can be sold in for- eign exchange bureau markets. Withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the prevailing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Accounts maintained in deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars in demand deposits earn interest at an annual rate of 2.5 percent to 4 percent; accounts maintained in these currencies in one-, two-, and three-year term deposits earn interest at an annual rate of 2.5 percent. Funds in A accounts cannot be used for business activities. When leaving the coun- try permanently, individuals are allowed, under the general foreign exchange permit, to transfer all funds from this account. Foreign Exchange Accounts for Foreign Settlements (ROD): ROD accounts are held by juridical persons. Until December 9,1995, all foreign exchange receipts from exports, were in principle required to be sur- rendered, except that juridical persons were allowed to retain foreign exchange accumulated in ROD Accounts before January 1, 1990. On December 10, 1995, amendments to the Foreign Exchange Law came into effect allowing companies with interna- tional operations to maintain Polish accounts in a foreign currency and abolishing the surrender requirement. Resident individuals and enterprises who demon- strate proof of need may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the permission of the National Bank. Under the general foreign exchange permit, such an account may also be held by enterprises earning foreign exchange from performing specific contracts. Balances in these accounts may not exceed $100,000. Nonresident Accounts: Nonresident natural and juridical persons are free to maintain both convert- ible currency and zloty accounts. Nonresidents may maintain convertible currency accounts ("C" accounts) at all foreign exchange banks. These accounts may be credited with funds brought in or transferred to Poland, with transfers from other C accounts, and with convertible currency amounts legally acquired in Poland.5 Deposits are freely transferable abroad, and may be used to make gifts to residents. The funds earn interest in foreign cur- rency at the same rates as funds in the A accounts. Depositors in zloty accounts must declare the source of the zlotys; this declaration requirement is aimed at ensuring that payments into the accounts result from contracts or other operations that com- ply with the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Apart from zlotys legally earned in Poland, these accounts may also be credited with zloty balances converted from foreign exchange at the official exchange rate. Permits for conversion back into for- eign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These accounts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also deposit their earnings in savings accounts, on which interest is paid. Balances in zloty accounts may be transferred to nonresidents or residents with foreign exchange permits, except for gift payments to resi- dents. Permits for transfers to nonresidents are granted only for transfers to family members. Per- mits for transfers to residents are granted without restriction. Imports and Exports Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of imports of radioactive materials and military equip- ment; dairy products; alcoholic beverages, other than beer; and coal. Licenses are required for imports carried out within the framework of inter- national agreements that stipulate bilateral settle- ments. The importation of certain mineral oils, tobacco products, and alcoholic beverages is subject to a quota. The importation of the following prod- ucts is prohibited: certain alcohol products; passen- ger cars older than ten years; trucks, vans, and utility 5Since January 1, 1995, a foreign national entitled to transfer foreign currency has been allowed to hold "unrestricted foreign accounts"; funds in these accounts are freely transferable abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 POLAND cars older than six years; and cars with two-cycle engines. Export quotas cover items subject to import restrictions by other countries and ferrous waste and scrap; export licenses are required for (1) goods sub- ject to export quotas, (2) exports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stip- ulate bilateral settlements, and (3) temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing. Nonresidents in Poland (persons domi- ciled abroad but not foreign corporate entities oper- ating in Poland) are required, temporarily, to apply for export permits. Exports of protein feed and oats and, on a temporary basis, some alcoholic products, dairy products, some mineral oils, and natural gas are prohibited. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HCDCS) and the combined nomenclature of the European Commu- nity (EC) of 1991, with six basic rates: zero on equip- ment for the disabled, mineral resources, textiles, and cattle hides; zero to 5 percent on other raw mate- rials; 7 percent to 13 percent on basic parts of semi- finished and finished goods; 17 percent to 29 percent on industrial goods; 25 percent to 40 percent on agri- cultural and textile products; and 29 percent to 43 percent on luxury goods. Imports from develop- ing countries are granted preferential treatment under the General System of Preferences. Also, imports from 42 developing countries, tropical prod- ucts from Chapters 6 to 24 of the HCDCS, and many goods from Chapters 32 and 94 of the HCDCS that are of interest to developing countries enter Poland duty free. For the remaining goods imported from non-European developing countries whose per cap- ita GDP is lower than Poland's, duties are reduced to 30 percent of the most-favored-nation (MFN) rate. Some special regulations pertain to border trade with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other coun- tries of the former Soviet Union. Imports are subject to a surcharge of Zl 50,000 and an additional turnover tax of 6 percent; alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, fuels, and automobiles are exempt from the turnover tax. Duties and turn- over taxes on imports for export production are refunded. Exports other than coal are free from turn- over taxes. Until recently, exporters were required to declare all foreign currency receipts from exports, to repatri- ate them within two months of receipt, and to sur- render them to the Polish foreign exchange banks within 14 days of receiving notice that foreign exchange has been deposited in their accounts in Poland. Effective December 10, 1995, the surrender requirement was abolished for companies engaged in international operations. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible expenses arising from mer- chandise transactions, including insurance and transportation costs, are permitted freely if related to trade transactions. All other invisible transactions are carried out under either a general or an individ- ual permit. Foreign exchange for such payments is made available automatically once the transaction is authorized. For official and business travel, separate allow- ances are established by the Ministry of Finance to reflect reasonable costs. Business travelers may take out of Poland up to the equivalent of $10,000 from the foreign currency accounts maintained by the enterprises that employ them for travel expenses or purchases of goods and services associated with their business activity. Additional amounts may be taken out upon proof of need. Polish nationals leaving Poland are permitted to take abroad up to $2,000 or the equivalent in con- vertible foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks that they have purchased from foreign exchange banks to pay outstanding obligations to foreign nationals resulting from (1) the purchase of movable assets and proprietary interests, and (2) transportation and insurance services. Documentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts exceeding this limit. However, holders of A accounts may take out of the country the balance on their accounts without limit. When leaving Poland, tourists from convertible currency area countries may reconvert zlotys up to the equivalent they brought into Poland, provided that the amount is not more than that orig- inally converted into zlotys. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months of returning to Poland. Residents may, without approval, bring into or take out of the country domes- tic banknotes and coins in an amount not to exceed Zl 5 million a person. Foreign visitors must declare foreign exchange they bring into the country in order to take out the unspent amount and are not permitted to bring zlotys into the country or to take them out. Business entities may use their ROD accounts to pay wages and salaries to nonresident employees. They may also use their ROD accounts, or foreign exchange purchased from foreign exchange banks, to pay outstanding obligations relating to (1) pro- curement costs, including costs of participation in exhibitions and fairs, and advertising costs; (2) fees ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 391 for agents' representational services; (3) costs of repairing and overhauling imported machinery and equipment; (4) costs associated with protecting intel- lectual property; and (5) costs related to auditing, consulting, and information services. Similarly, indi- viduals may remit foreign exchange to pay for (1) participation in international organizations and international hotel networks abroad; (2) costs of court or arbitration proceedings up to the equivalent of $20,000 a case; (3) costs of obtaining legal counsel and trial representation in a given case up to $50,000 or the equivalent; (4) taxes, customs duties, or administrative fees payable abroad; and (5) study abroad. Amounts in excess of established limits can be remitted if supporting documents showing the bona fide nature of the transaction are provided. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Poland, other than in the context of employment in joint ventures, are determined on the basis of agree- ments between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises and through individual foreign exchange permits. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 100 percent of their income. Residents may remit pensions and annuities in convertible foreign exchange at the official exchange rate to nonresidents who are entitled to such payments on the basis of a ruling from the social security administration. Profits on direct investment by nonresidents, other than those from joint ventures, or the acquisi- tion of shares in Polish companies, may be trans- ferred abroad without restriction. If the investment yields a net surplus in convertible currency in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the surplus may be transferred abroad, provided that the transfer does not exceed 50 percent of net profits af ter taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 percent of the surplus. On liquidation, the investor may transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. Capital Parliament annually sets an upper limit on the public sector's external indebtedness. Within this limit, foreign borrowing takes place on the basis of intergovernmental agreements and in various forms of bank and commercial credits. Under the provi- sions of the banking law, the National Bank, Bank Handlowy, Bank PKO, S.A., and the Export Devel- opment Bank are empowered to borrow abroad, on short or long term, and to extend foreign credits. The Minister of Finance sets limits on the foreign bor- rowing of the banks, and the contracting of foreign loans is subject to approval. A foreign investment law, Law on Companies with Foreign Participation, came into effect on July 4,1991, replacing the Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties, which had governed all new foreign direct investments since December 23, 1988. Under the 1991 law, new busi- nesses need to register only with local courts, except for investments in the areas of seaports, airports, real estate transactions, defense, legal services, and wholesale trade in imported products, all of which continue to require permits. Imports of capital goods for new joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Investors in certain priority sectors and investments exceeding ECU 2 million a year are also eligible for tax concessions. The 10 percent ceiling on purchases of shares of privatization issues has been abolished, and a permit is not required unless such shares relate to the above-mentioned sectors. The transfer of profits from joint ventures and from investments in shares of Polish companies is not restricted, and invested capital may be repatriated once outstanding obligations to creditors are dis- charged. The transfer of profits or repatriation of capital from bonds is not restricted. Although the 1991 law does not stipulate a minimum amount of capital that foreign nationals must invest in Poland, the minimum capital requirement set forth in the Polish commercial code for a limited liability com- pany and a joint-stock company is in effect and is applied to foreign investment. Foreign investment by residents, either to estab- lish subsidiaries or affiliates or to acquire an interest in a foreign enterprise, requires a foreign exchange permit. All categories of capital transfers, including gifts, by resident natural persons require a foreign exchange permit. Emigrants to other countries must obtain an individual permit from the National Bank to take out their convertible currency deposits with domestic banks. Other financial assets may be deposited in a nonresident zloty account. Negotiable export documents may be discounted by foreign banks. With a permit, exports of goods (other than fuels and raw materials) and services may be financed by a credit of up to the equivalent of $1 million with repayment terms of up to 360 days. With a permit, imports with a value of up to the equivalent of $1 million may also be financed by a credit with repayment terms of up to three years. Except in the form of an inheritance, nonresidents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with permission from the Ministry of the Interior. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 Gold POLAND Resident individuals may hold gold in any form. Trading in gold, other than jewelry, is subject to per- mission from the foreign exchange authorities. Pol- ish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear value in foreign exchange. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Only one enterprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell in gold in any form. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement January 1. New currency notes and coins were issued replacing old currency at a conversion rate of 1 to 10,000. Old currency would remain in circula- tion until the end of 1996. May 16. The National Bank allowed the external value of the zloty to fluctuate within margins of ±7 percent around the central rate. Foreign exchange bureaus were permitted to purchase foreign exchange from the interbank market without restriction. June 1. Poland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control January 1. A new Foreign Exchange Law removing remaining exchange restrictions on current interna- tional transactions came into effect. March 27. Amended general foreign exchange per- mits came into force. Imports and Exports January 1. The rate of the import surcharge was reduced to 5 percent from 6 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo. Portugal participates with Austria, Bel- gium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxem- bourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Portugal maintains the spot exchange rates between the Portuguese escudo and the currencies of the other participants within mar- gins of 15 percent above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the Banco de Portugal (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other par- ticipating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Austrian schillings 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 Deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Spanish pesetas Portuguese Escudos Upper limit Lower limit 1,691.800 1,254.700 577.090 3,120.500 11,903.300 3,549.000 286.983 10,564.000 139.920 428.000 2,314.300 8,827.700 2,632.100 212.838 7,834.700 103.770 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies3 are based on information on the exchange rate of the Portuguese escudo in terms of the deutsche mark provided by the banking system and are announced daily by the Banco de Portugal. These rates are a reference for the banks' bid and offer rates, which are freely set. On December 31, 1995, the indicative rate for the U.S. dollar was Esc 149.413 per $1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency among them- selves and with residents and nonresidents at free market rates of exchange. Nonbank residents may also conduct spot or forward exchange operations with nonresident counterparts. The degree of for- eign exchange risks that banks are authorized to take must fall within the limits established by the Banco de Portugal for their foreign exchange posi- tions (calculated as the sum of the positions against escudos in each foreign currency). Portugal accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on September 12,1988. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade pol- icy is implemented by the Ministry of Economy. The Direcgao-Geral do Comercio in this ministry is responsible for administering trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, surveillance doc- uments, and certificates. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Portugal notified the IMF on September 12, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to residents or nationals of Iraq. Portugal also notified the IMF, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 (1993), that the movements of any funds in Portugal that are controlled by public authorities or Libyan compa- nies are prohibited. 1 Austria became a member of the European Union on Janu- ary 1,1995, and joined the ERM of the EMS on Janua ry 9,1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent (in the case of Portugal and Spain, 6 percent) to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the f luc tua t ion band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guil- der remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Macao patacas, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate o fP 1 . 0 3 p e rHK $ l. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 Prescription of Currency PORTUGAL There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements may be effected in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are free to open and operate accounts in Portugal or abroad in either escudos or foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports are free of restrictions. For products under European Union (EU) surveil- lance, the appropriate import documents, when required, are issued for statistical surveillance pur- poses and are granted automatically in four to five days. Imports of certain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under specific condi- tions or are prohibited for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial fraud. Imports subject to quantitative restrictions require an import license. Generally, the validity of import licenses is six months for customs clearance purposes. For agricultural products covered by the common agricultural policy of the EU, the EU may require an import certificate. A few industrial products, such as steel products and some textiles and clothing, are subject to import restrictions in the EU when they originate in certain third countries. A more extensive restricted list applying to China includes some textiles and a small number of finished products. Exports and Export Proceeds between capital transactions with residents of EU member countries and residents of non-EU member countries. According to Decree Law No. 321/95 of November 28, 1995, foreign direct investments are permitted in all sectors except those that, under gen- eral law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Foreign direct investment operations are submitted to a register that should be fulfilled within 30 days after the operations have been made. The projects with special interest to the Portuguese economy are covered by a separate and contractual regime. The establishment of a financial institution in Por- tugal in which a majority voting right is held by nat- ural persons who are not nationals of a European Economic Area (EEA) member country or by legal persons with their main office and central manage- ment in a non-EEA country is subject to previous authorization from the Minister of Finance, which may consider prudential requirements as well as other criteria. Similar regulations apply to the estab- lishment in Portugal of branches of a financial insti- tution located in a non-EEA member country. The establishment in a non-EEA member country of branches of financial institutions by residents is subject to prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Portugal. Residents and nonresidents may also import and export bullion, coins, and unworked gold, but a customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding Esc 2.5 million. Exports are free of restrictions. Proceeds from exports are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and pro- ceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank- notes or any other means of payment. The exporta- tion or importation by residents or nonresidents of banknotes or coins and traveler's checks in excess of the equivalent of Esc 2.5 million must be declared to customs. March 6. The authorities realigned the central par- ity of the escudo by 3.5 percent, and the upper and lower limits of the escudo for the currencies of par- ticipants in the ERM of the EMS were changed accordingly. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis dur- ing 1995.) Capital Capital There are no exchange restrictions or controls on capital transactions, and no distinction is made November 28. Liberalization of foreign direct investment (Decree-Law No. 321/95). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 per SDR1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate. The Qatar Central Bank sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the Qatar riyal in terms of the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6415 and QR 3.6385, respectively, per $1. The exchange rates of commercial banks for trans- actions in U.S. dollars are based on the Central Bank's buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The buying and selling rates of commer- cial banks for other currencies are based on the Cen- tral Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official banking sector. In the commercial banking sector, importers may pur- chase foreign exchange in the forward market. Qatar accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, on June 4,1973. Administration of Control The Central Bank is the exchange control author- ity, but there is at present no exchange control legis- lation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Commerce. Financial trans- actions with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Iraq and Israel are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammunition, and cer- tain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Imports of general goods are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 4 percent, which is the minimum rate applied by member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC). The customs tariff on steel is 20 percent; on tobacco, 104 percent; and on alco- holic beverages, 100 percent. Imports of goods from other member countries of the GCC are not subject to a customs tariff. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Oth- erwise, all commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Iraq and Israel. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles in effect. Capital No exchange controls are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, although payments may not be made to or received from Iraq and Israel. Noncitizens may engage in simple crafts as well as in commerce, industry, agri- culture, and services jointly with Qatari partners, provided that the latter's share is not less than 51 percent. Noncitizens may also establish compa- nies specializing in contracting business with Qatari partners, subject to the above conditions, if it is determined that there is a need to establish such companies or if there is a need for the experience and technology they provide. Gold Imports and Import Payments All imports from Iraq and Israel are prohibited, as are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents (including private persons) may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. For trading 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 QATAR purposes, the buying and selling of gold and pre- cious metals require an import license and are sub- ject to customs duty. Transactions involving Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The exchange rate against the U.S. dollar (the refer- ence exchange rate) is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Romania is not committed to intervene in the exchange market except to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates and to build up foreign exchange reserves. Only commercial banks authorized by the National Bank can participate in the exchange mar- ket. Juridical persons other than authorized com- mercial banks may purchase or sell foreign exchange through authorized banks, and individuals may purchase foreign currency at foreign exchange bureaus. All transactions between resident juridical persons and between juridical persons and natural persons must be made in the national currency. In certain circumstances, the National Bank may autho- rize foreign exchange operations between individu- als and juridical persons. The authorization of the National Bank of Romania is not necessary for the forex transfers between residents resulting from for- eign trade contracts. On December 31, 1995, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was lei 2,578 per $1. The National Bank quotes rates for 23 other curren- cies,1 based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned, as well as for the European currency unit and the SDR. Foreign exchange bureaus conduct transactions only in for- eign currency banknotes, traveler's checks, and credit cards, and only with natural persons. Since September 19, 1994, these bureaus have been allowed to set their exchange rates freely. The transferable ruble, the currency used for com- mercial transactions with the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), was abolished but continues to be used as a unit of account for the purpose of liquidating out- standing balances. Forward exchange transactions to cover against exchange rate risks relating to current international transactions are permitted. The National Bank issues rules and regulations related to control of foreign exchange transactions according to the law that set up the National Bank as the country's central bank, on May 3, 1991. The National Bank authorizes all capital transfers, including those connected with inheritances, pro- ceeds from the liquidation of capital assets owned by foreign natural persons, and pension payments abroad on the basis of visas issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance.2 Domestic commercial banks are authorized by the National Bank to conduct for- eign exchange transactions abroad for current inter- national transactions and are permitted to have foreign banks as correspondents or to borrow directly abroad with national bank authorization. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made only in the currency and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts All juridical and natural persons may maintain foreign currency accounts with commercial banks authorized by the National Bank to operate in Romania. Resident juridical persons may open and maintain foreign exchange accounts abroad or other assets in foreign currency with the prior authorization of the National Bank. Romanian natural persons and for- eigners permanently domiciled in Romania and receiving foreign exchange income abroad may hold and use foreign means of payment in foreign exchange accounts held in financial and banking institutions abroad. Natural persons may also hold foreign exchange in the form of banknotes and coins or in accounts opened with commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania and, within the laws and conditions specified by foreign exchange Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Egyptian pounds, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Turkish liras. Authorization is not required to operate nonresident deposits held by resident banks; loans and credits received by residents and guaranteed by the state; and deposits that resident banks place in their own name. 3At the end of 1995, Romania maintained bilateral payments agreements with Albania, China, and Ghana. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 ROMANIA regulations, may freely use such foreign exchange to effect current international payments. The deposits may also be exchanged for lei through the foreign exchange bureaus authorized to operate in Romania. Imports and Exports Import and export transactions were liberalized on May 1,1992, and in general are not subject to licens- ing. There are no quantitative import restrictions. Exports of certain products (including timber, live- stock, sunflower seeds, maize, certain mineral oils, chemical fertilizers, and copper alloys) are subject to a quota. Both the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Finance may take measures to restrict imports for purposes of protecting the balance of payments, or for reasons of public health, national defense, and state security, in accordance with the provisions of the World Trade Organization. Import tariff rates are ad valorem, and range from zero to 343 percent, with a simple average rate of about 19 percent. A differential import surcharge is levied on certain agricultural products. Resident juridical persons are required to repatri- ate export proceeds but are allowed to keep them in accounts opened at domestic commercial banks or foreign commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania, and are free to use the balances in these accounts. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident juridical persons may effect foreign exchange transfers for payments for invisibles (or any international current account) transactions through authorized commercial banks. Commercial banks must verify, based on supporting documents, that the requested transfer is for bona fide current account purposes. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to sell foreign exchange to resident natural persons for the purpose of travel abroad up to the annual limit of $500 a person. Foreign exchange bureaus are permit- ted to sell to resident natural persons more than $500 in special situations such as trips abroad for medical treatments, participation in conferences, and educa- tional purposes. Natural persons residing in Romania may take out of the country foreign exchange in the form of banknotes and coins up to a maximum amount equivalent to $5,000 a person a trip to effect current transactions (such as expenses for group or individ- ual travel, medical treatments or purchases of medi- cines, participation in conferences, education, purchases of consumer goods for personal use, and payments for services); no documentation is required for amounts of $1,000 or less. Amounts above $1,000 up to $5,000 must be documented. Nat- ural persons must make all transfers exceeding $5,000 through banks. Resident natural persons rep- resenting juridical persons engaging in international transport or tourism activities may take cash out of the country up to the equivalent of $10,000. Trans- fers to banks abroad for current operations may also be made from the foreign exchange accounts of nat- ural persons domiciled permanently in Romania and from the accounts of other Romanian juridical persons, except in special cases (as stipulated by law) requiring prior authorization from the National Bank; such authorization is granted on a case-by- case basis. Banks may not limit the volume of bona fide current operations. The maximum amount of foreign currency bank- notes and coins that natural persons may bring into Romania is the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip. Cash amounts larger than $10,000 must be deposited with Customs at the Romanian border. In the case of nonresident natural persons, amounts not converted into lei may be taken out of the country. The maxi- mum amount of domestic banknotes that can be brought into or taken out of Romania is lei 100,000 a person a trip in denominations no larger than lei 5,000. Capital All outward transfers of foreign currency must be authorized by the National Bank. The restriction on capital outflow concerns direct investments abroad, including the purchase of real estate, portfolio investment in international financial, markets, bank accounts abroad, credits granted by residents abroad, and repayment of external credits received by Romanian residents. Under the investment law that came into effect on April 3, 1991, there are no limits on foreign equity participation in a commercial firm set up in Roma- nia, and foreign investments may be made in all sec- tors of the economy, except for security and defense reasons. Foreign investors may participate in the manage- ment of the investment operation or assign contrac- tual rights and obligations to other Romanian or foreign investors. In addition, foreign investors can transfer abroad (1) the entire amount of their share of profits earned in convertible currencies or in lei; (2) the total or partial proceeds in convertible curren- cies from sales of stocks, shares, bonds, and other securities, as well as from the liquidation of invest- ments; and (3) the proceeds in lei from the liquida- tion of investments in freely convertible currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 399 Imported machinery, equipment, installations, means of transport, and any other goods in kind constituted as participation of the foreign investor are exempt from custom duties. Foreign investors also benefit from certain tax advantages. Gold The National Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. It, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. Natural persons may, without restriction, own gold jewelry and artistic and cultural objects for domestic and personal use. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement May 31. Foreign exchange operations between res- idents and nonresidents settled in cash, and between residents settled in cash and through banking accounts must be authorized by the National Bank. May 31. Foreign exchange bureaus were required to have assets of at least lei 200 million, constituted until January 31,1996. December 31. Foreign exchange bureaus were per- mitted to sell to resident natural persons more than $500 under certain conditions. The authorization of the National Bank is not necessary for foreign exchange transfers between residents that result from foreign trade contracts. Administration of Control June 30. Foreign banks were granted licenses to operate as foreign exchange dealers. Resident and Nonresident Accounts September 30. Enterprises were permitted to main- tain foreign exchange accounts at more than one bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Russian Federation is the Ruble. An official exchange rate is quoted by the Central Bank of Russia based on market exchange rates prevailing in daily auctions held at the Mos- cow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX)1 where the rate for the U.S. dollar is determined within a band of Rub 4,300 to Rub 4,900 per $1. The band was changed to Rub 5,150 from Rub 4,550 on January 1, 1996, and is to be maintained until July 1,1996. Auc- tion markets are also organized in other major cities, including St. Petersburg, Ekaterinburg, Vladivostok, Rostov, and Novosibirsk. There is a growing inter- bank exchange market outside of the currency exchanges. Currencies traded on the MICEX include Belarus rubles, deutsche mark, French francs, Kazak tenge, pounds sterling, and Ukrainian karbovanets. Currencies traded on other exchanges also include Finnish markkaa and Japanese yen. The Central Bank is a shareholder and founder of the MICEX. The Central Bank issues three kinds of foreign exchange licenses: (1) internal licenses, which allow a bank to deal in foreign exchange bureaus and to open correspondent accounts in the banks of the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former Soviet Union (e.g., Moscow narodnoy); (2) limited licenses, which allow banks to open up to six correspondent accounts in banks of their choice, in addition to correspondent accounts in former Soviet Union banks abroad and to deal in up to six currencies; and (3) general licenses, which allow banks to carry out the fu ll range of foreign exchange operations, including portfolio transactions. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency of the Central Bank in the MICEX and on other exchanges where the Central Bank operates. The Central Bank participates in the MICEX as a net buyer and seller of the U.S. dollar to smooth out short-term fluctua- tions in the exchange rate; it occasionally trades in foreign exchange through direct dealing on the interbank market outside the auctions. There is no spread between the central bank buying and selling rates. The central bank exchange rate is announced twice a week; it becomes effective on the following day and remains in effect until the Friday and Wednesday auctions. Exchange rates announced by the Central Bank are used for accounting and taxa- tion purposes and for operations with the Ministry of Finance. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates of the ruble for the ECU and 26 convertible curren- cies on the basis of the MICEX ruble-U.S. dollar rate and the cross-rate relationships between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the inter- national market on the day preceding auctions. The Central Bank provides reference exchange rates for the currencies of the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former Soviet Union against the ruble, based on market exchange rates in Russia (auction rates of currency exchanges) or local mar- kets. These reference rates are used for taxation and accounting purposes, and authorized commercial banks are free to quote the rates for these currencies in their transactions. The Central Bank also calcu- lates the (former) Soviet Gosbank exchange rate of the ruble, the so-called official exchange rate (about Rub 0.6 per $1), as a unit of account for the valuation of external claims of the Baltic countries and other countries of the former Soviet Union and related transactions.2 An interbank, mainly noncash, market operates outside the auctions among the major authorized banks, mainly within regions; the regional segmen- tation stems from the length of settlement of the ruble leg of foreign exchange transactions between banks affiliated with different payment centers; this feature hampers effective arbitrage between regional markets and leads the Central Bank to operate in the regional exchanges in order to apply the same exchange rate throughout the country. Authorized banks may trade on behalf of their customers and on their own accounts in these markets, subject to expo- sure limits defined by the Central Bank.3 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange.4 There are no official ]The MICEX is a joint stock company of resident foreign ex- change banks and nonbank licensed organizations. The MICEX receives a commission in U.S. dollars of 0.1 percent on net pur- chases of U.S. dollars and a commission in rubles of 0.1 percent on net purchases of rubles. The other currency exchanges of Russia are organized in a similar manner as the MICEX; the Central Bank is not necessarily a shareholder of these exchanges but may oper- ate on them. 2The official rate was defined by the Soviet Gosbank in relation to a currency basket of six convertible currencies; the value of that unit of account, therefore, fluctuates with the exchange rates of those currencies. 3End-of-day exposures must not exceed $100,000 for each Rub 1 billion of capital up to Rub 10 billion. The Central Bank deter- mines the exposure of banks with a capital exceeding Rub 10 billion. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 401 arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. A futures trading market has developed in Moscow and is regulated as part of the central bank exposure limits, and forward contracts are also sold by authorized banks.5 Russia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. Administration of Control The responsibility for regulating foreign trade and exchange transactions is shared by the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations (MFER), the Federal Service of Cur- rency and Exchange Control, and the State Tax Service. The Central Bank is responsible for adminis- tering exchange control regulations; supervising and monitoring transactions of authorized banks, including accounting procedures for the revaluation of foreign currency items; and regulating banks' open foreign exchange positions. It has delegated to the authorized banks the responsibility for enforcing repatriation and surrender requirements, and to the state foreign exchange control authorities and the State Tax Service for monitoring compliance of authorized banks with relevant regulations. The Ministry of Finance supervises compliance with reg- ulations concerning export quotas, licensing, and transactions in precious metals and unprocessed precious stones. The State Tax Service supervises the payment of taxes on income in foreign currencies. The Law of the Russian Federation on Currency Regulations and Currency Controls stipulates that Parliament is responsible for overseeing the Govern- ment's foreign exchange reserves. The authority for changing the rules for the mandatory sale of foreign exchange from export earnings rests with the Presi- dent of Russia. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Russia notified the IMF on April 1, 1993, that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 of 1992, certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of 4A local turnover tax of 0.1 percent has been imposed by the city of Moscow since March 1,1994. 5The open position limits are set in absolute amounts and d i f fer according to bank capital as follows: (1) for capital up to Rub 1 billion, the limit is $100,000, while the l im i t /cap i tal ratio may not be less than 33 percent; (2) for capital of Rub 1-5 billion, the limit is $500,000, while the limit/capital ratio is in the range of 33 per- cent to 165 percent; (3) for capital of Rub 5-10 billion, the limit is $1 million, while the limit/capital ratio is in the range of 33 per- cent to 66 percent; and (4) for banks with capital above Rub 10 bil- lion, the Central Bank determines individual limits. the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro). Arrears are maintained with respect to external debt-service payments. Prescription of Currency At present, Russia maintains inoperative bilateral payments agreements with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, India, Mongolia, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, and the Syrian Arab Republic in which clearing currencies for the settle- ment of merchandise trade are specified; balances under some of these agreements are in the process of reconciliation, and the settlement of balances is expected to take place following reconciliation. There is also an arrangement with India providing for the settlement of India's debt obligations to Russia. Settlements with the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are no longer made through correspondent accounts; all outstand- ing balances on these accounts have been trans- formed into intergovernmental debts. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Natural and juridical persons may open foreign currency accounts at authorized resident banks. Nonresidents must register with the tax authorities before opening an account. There are no restrictions on the crediting or debiting of these accounts main- tained by nonresidents. Balances on foreign cur- rency accounts of residents may only be used for purposes of effecting current foreign exchange trans- actions. Residents may use balances in their current foreign exchange accounts for all types of current transactions; the use of foreign exchange proceeds for capital transactions, with the exception of indi- vidual transactions specified in Instruction No. 39, dated April 24, 1996, on "Changes in the Procedure of Conducting Several Types of Foreign Exchange Transactions in the Russian Federation/7 requires a central bank license. Resident natural persons may maintain bank accounts abroad only during their stay outside Russia for the purpose of education, employment, medical treatment, or tourism. Upon their return to Russia, bank accounts abroad must be closed, and balances must be credited to the accounts held in authorized banks operating in the territory of Russia. Resident juridical persons, including branches of Russian banks, may not main- tain accounts abroad without special permission from the Central Bank. Resident banks may open correspondent accounts abroad in accordance with the procedures set out in the Central Bank's foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 RUSSIAN FEDERATION exchange licenses. Authorized Russian banks are allowed to open correspondent accounts in the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former Soviet Union without restriction, provided that they comply with the regulation on exposure limits. Nonresidents may maintain four types of ruble accounts: (1) "T" accounts, which may be credited with proceeds from current international transac- tions (including proceeds from sales of goods and services to residents of Russia and interest earnings on the account itself, and debited for the servicing of export-import operations by their representative offices in Russia); (2) correspondent ruble accounts for nonresident banks under the same regime appli- cable to T accounts; (3) "I" accounts, which can be used for investment activities (including privatiza- tion operations); and (4) nonresident accounts for natural persons. The transfer abroad of balances in T accounts and correspondent ruble accounts accumu- lated after June 1, 1996, is not restricted; the use of balances accumulated up to May 31, 1996, is limited to domestic transactions. I accounts may be used for a wide range of investment activities, including profit and dividend transfers. Balances maintained in I accounts may be transferred abroad without restric- tion after payment of applicable taxes. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange only with ruble balances held in I accounts. Imports and Exports Imports are generally free of quotas and licenses. Licenses are required for imports of medicines, raw materials for the production of medicines and pesti- cides, and industrial waste. A customs duty ranging from 5 percent to 15 percent is levied on most goods; duties on some goods range up to 150 percent. The following products are exempt from customs duties: foodstuffs; medicines; inputs for the production of medicines; medical supplies and equipment; printed materials; children's articles; accompanied baggage, except motor vehicles, up to the value of $2,000; equipment for the oil and gas industries; and ships and boats. Imports from the countries of the former Commonwealth of Independent States and "least developed" countries are also exempt, and the cus- toms duties on imports from other developing coun- tries are reduced by one-half. Customs duties are payable in rubles at central bank exchange rates. Foreign-owned companies, banks, and organiza- tions that are officially accredited in Russia may import unlimited office-related goods duty free. Foreign exchange transactions, associated deferred payments for exports of goods from Russia for a period exceeding 180 days, and deferrals granted to residents for making advance payments against deliveries of imported goods exceeding 180 days require the permission of the Central Bank. Exports are not subject to quotas, and licensing is limited to a small group of products. Exports of stra- tegically important goods require registration of con- tracts with the MFER. A limited number of goods, mainly determined by the Ministry of Environment, may be exported only under a licensing regime. The export regimes apply to exports to all countries. Export licenses are issued in accordance with application procedures established by the MFER and are required for a limited number of other products (e.g., military equipment and arms, gold, diamonds, other precious metals and stones, certain food prod- ucts, wildlife, medicines, chemical raw materials for the production of medicines, and minerals). Residents must sell 50 percent of their export earn- ings through the authorized banks. Export duties are levied on about 100 product groups. Specific duties are denominated in ECUs and range from ECU 1 to ECU 80,000 a ton. Ad valorem duties range up to 30 percent (15 per- cent and 20 percent for foods). Specific duties on goods exported under barter trade arrangements are 50 percent higher, as are specific duties on exports that are not subject to the 50 percent surrender requirement. The export duties are imposed on exports to the Baltic countries and the other coun- tries of the former Soviet Union, except for goods delivered to meet state needs in accordance with intergovernmental agreements and that were sold by the state corporations (Roskontract and Rosa- grokhim). Duties on goods exported to the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former Soviet Union may be paid in rubles, and on goods exported to other countries, in any of the currencies quoted by the Central Bank, which applies its exchange rates prevailing on the day the payment for the goods is received. A number of discretionary exemptions are granted on a case-by-case basis.6 Export duties are payable when the goods cross the border, but payments may be postponed for up to 60 days if a bank guarantee for the subsequent pay- ment is provided. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, and res- idents may purchase foreign exchange for all bona 6Oil- and gas-producing enterprises are exempt from export duties for the decentralized portion of their exports. This exemp- tion does not apply to enterprises with foreign investments regis- tered a f ter Janua ry 1, 1992, that provide goods for centralized exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 403 fide invisible transactions from authorized banks with proper documentation. There are no restric- tions on the amount of foreign banknotes a person may take out of the country, provided that a certifi- cate from an authorized bank on the origin of the funds is presented to customs. The use of interna- tionally accepted credit cards issued by domestic banks to customers who have foreign currency accounts is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents traveling to areas where the ruble is sole legal tender are allowed to take out a maximum of Rub 500,000 in banknotes. The transfer of income from investments by non- residents is not restricted. Nonresidents may freely convert funds held in their I accounts into foreign exchange. Proceeds from invisibles, except those from banking services, are subject to the surrender requirement. Payments to nonresidents for work and services within 180 days of completion are not restricted; under the existing regulations, payments after 180 days are treated as capital transfers and require a license from the Central Bank. Authorized banks holding general foreign .exchange licenses are permitted to import and export foreign currency banknotes, treasury notes, coins in circulation, and securities without restriction, pro- vided that they observe customs regulations. Capital Capital transfers of residents, with the exception of repayments of foreign loans, must be authorized by the Central Bank. External borrowing by juridical persons is subject to control. Both resident and nonresident juridical persons have the right to import or transfer foreign exchange without restriction, provided that they observe the regulations. Capital transfers by residents abroad, including repayments of loans with maturities exceeding 180 days from the date of transaction, requires approval from the Central Bank. Transactions not requiring approval are listed in Instruction No. 39 of April 24, 1996, on "Changes in the Procedure of Conducting Several Types of Foreign Exchange Transactions in the Russian Federation." Receipts of foreign exchange credits by resident juridical persons from nonresidents are subject to central bank approval when their maturities exceed 180 days. Borrowing by banks possessing a general foreign exchange license does not require a special license. Nonresident juridical persons may transfer abroad foreign currency assets up to the amount imported, provided that the foreign exchange is in their posses- sion. Nonresidents may buy or sell foreign currency for investment purposes in exchange for rubles through I accounts without limit. Investment in Rus- sian enterprises by nonresidents through joint ven- tures or through outright ownership is not restricted, except in some sectors like banking and exploration of natural resources (special license required) or land ownership (prohibited). Enterprises with foreign capital shares must register with the Ministry of Economy, and investments exceeding Rub 100 mil- lion require a permit from the Council of Ministers. Foreign direct investments are accorded the same rights and privileges with regard to property owner- ship and economic activities as those accorded to res- idents.7 Foreign direct investments may be nationalized or expropriated only in exceptional cases in accordance with legislation, and, in such cases, the investor is entitled to compensation. Gold Domestic trade in gold is not permitted, except that monetary gold intended to be part of the coun- try's foreign exchange reserves is purchased by the Central Bank and the Government at world prices quoted on the London market converted at the mar- ket exchange rate. Transactions in precious metals (gold and silver bullion) require authorization; transactions must be made through authorized banks possessing special licenses issued by the Cen- tral Bank. The Ministry of Finance has issued gold- backed certificates, which can also be bought by nonresidents. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement July 6. A band of Rub 4,300 to Rub 4,900 per $1 was introduced for the official exchange rate. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The band for the official exchange rate was adjusted to between Rub 4,550 and Rub 5,150; this band would be maintained until July 1,1996. June 1. Russia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. 7 A presidential decree of September 27, 1993, introduced sev- eral provisions to protect foreign investment, including a ''grand- fa the r^ clause that protects foreign investment for a three-year period from regulatory acts that would adversely affect their ac- tivities and a provision that any restrictions on activities of for- eign investors can be introduced only by laws of Russia or by presidential decree. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, the external value of which is determined freely in the exchange market in which commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus operate. The National Bank of Rwanda does not announce official exchange rates, but it calculates and publishes daily the average market exchange rate for reference pur- poses. On December 31,1995, the average exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus was RF 299.81 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign banknotes. However, banks may apply four commissions to these operations. Out- ward and inward transfers are subject to a commis- sion of 4 per mil, with a minimum of RF 500 and a maximum of RF 20,000. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to exter- nal payments. Prescription of Currency To facilitate trade and other external transactions, the National Bank maintains agreements with the central banks of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), Burundi, and Zaire. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts opened with central banks and denominated in SDRs; balances on these accounts are periodically transferable. Payments to and from other member countries of the Preferential trade area for Eastern and Southern African states (PTA) (Burundi, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Somalia, Swazi- land, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) are made through the PTA's clearinghouse. For other countries, payments for imports must be made in the currency quoted by the National Bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Bel- gian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign pay- ments are generally made by bank transfer checks, or telegraphic transfer. In addition, certain payments relating to border trade may be made in banknotes. Foreign Exchange Accounts Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports, except those of narcotics, which are prohibited, are permitted under an open general license (OGL) system. Residents are free to purchase foreign exchange from commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus and make payments for imports. Certain categories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval from the relevant authorities, regardless of origin and value. For rea- sons of health, the importation of human or veteri- nary medicines, disinfectants, insecticides, rodent poisons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to approval of the pro forma invoices by the Ministry of Health. Before placing orders, importers must submit import declarations to an authorized bank. These declarations allow importers to obtain the required foreign exchange from an authorized bank or a for- eign exchange bureau. Imports not involving the purchase of foreign exchange are also authorized. Imports with f.o.b. values equal to or exceeding $10,000 must be inspected by an international agency with regard to the quality, quantity, price, and customs tariff of the goods before goods are shipped to Rwanda. A file processing charge equal to 1 percent of the f.o.b. value of goods is charged on import declara- tions for coverage of fees for the inspection agency. Fuel is subject to a file processing charge of 1 per mil. Import declarations must be submitted upon clearance through customs, and one copy of the cer- tificate of entry for home use must be addressed to the National Bank. For imports originating from CEPGL member countries, import declarations may be replaced by CEPGL import notices. The import tariff regime is governed by the tariff code promul- gated on February 15,1995. Payments for Invisibles Residents are free to purchase foreign exchange from commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus and make payments for invisibles. 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 405 Salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract, net of taxes and employee's share of social security contribu- tions, may be transferred abroad. The net earned income of self-employed foreign nationals, whether engaged in a profession or established as indepen- dent traders, may also be transferred abroad after payment of taxes and deduction of local expenses. A fee of 0.4 percent is levied on transfers abroad. Official travel requires a travel authorization issued by the Government. Daily allowances are granted for such travel. Foreign exchange for busi- ness travel purposes are limited to the equivalent of $10,000 a trip, but there is no restriction on the num- ber of trips that may be taken. Unless otherwise provided by the National Bank, purchases of foreign exchange for travel for educa- tion and training are authorized up to the limit of $25,000 a year, on presentation of supporting docu- ments; for medical treatment, unless otherwise pro- vided by the National Bank, residents are authorized to purchase up to $20,000, with proper supporting documents. A maximum of $4,000 is made available for other travel. Allocations for travel by nonresi- dents are authorized as stipulated in the pertinent labor agreements. Remittances for payments for certain other invisi- bles may be authorized on an ad hoc basis. The exportation of Rwanda franc banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $100 must be declared to customs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, except trade samples, personal and household effects of travelers, are subject to prior declaration to the authorized banks. Receipts from exports must be repatriated within seven business days of the date of receipt. Settlements among member countries of the CEPGL and the PTA are effected through clearing arrangements maintained by the central banks of the countries concerned. Exporters may sell their foreign exchange earnings freely on the domestic foreign exchange market or retain them in accounts held with domestic banks. Ninety percent of earnings from exports of coffee and tea must be sold to com- mercial banks at a freely negotiated exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles may be sold freely to commercial banks or foreign exchange bureaus. Travelers from abroad may bring in up to the equiv- alent of $100 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Direct investments and portfolio investments by residents abroad require prior approval from the National Bank. Direct investments by nonresidents are allowed. Repatriation of such investments are pursuant to the investment code and must be registered by autho- rized banks. Gold Trade in gold is restricted to dealers approved by the relevant ministry. Imports and exports of gold require an import or an export declaration. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 6. The system of a free exchange market was introduced. Foreign exchange bureaus were allowed to operate. The National Bank would compute and publish daily the average market exchange rate. Administration of Control March 6. A new foreign exchange regulation liber- alizing controls came into effect. Foreign Exchange Accounts March 6. Residents and nonresidents were allowed to maintain foreign exchange accounts. Imports and Import Payments February 15. The Ministry of Finance published the new customs tariff schedule. The maximum entry tax was reduced from 100 percent to 60 percent. Payments for Invisibles Match 6. (I) The foreign exchange allowance for business travel purposes was increased to $10,000 a trip; and (2) foreign exchange purchases for travel for education and training or medical care were per- mitted up to limits of $25,000 and $20,000 a year, respectively. Exports and Export Proceeds March 6. Exporters were no longer required to sell their foreign exchange proceeds to the National Bank of Rwanda, and they were permitted to sell their proceeds in the foreign exchange market or keep them in foreign exchange accounts opened with commercial banks, with the exception of 90 percent of proceeds from exports of coffee and tea, which must be sold in the foreign exchange mar- ket at a freely negotiated rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) and is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Kitts and Nevis accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on December 3,1984. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries served by the ECCB must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts U.S. dollar currency accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the Ministry of Finance is required to operate other foreign currency accounts; such permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resid- ing in St. Kitts and Nevis. These accounts may be credited only with foreign currency earned or received from outside St. Kitts and Nevis and may be freely debited. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar currency account. Common Market (CARicoM).2 Payments for autho- rized imports payable in U.S. dollars are permitted on presentation of documentary evidence of pur- chase to a bank, but payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the Minis- try of Finance. The common external tariff (CET) is between zero and 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval, except where the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are authorized to pay on presentation of documentary evidence. Where the currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the Ministry of Finance; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. Residents of St. Kitts and Nevis may purchase for- eign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$1,500 a year for travel outside the area served by the ECCB, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel for bona fide pur- poses. For business travel, allowances of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$5,000 a company a year. These allocations can be increased in bona fide cases with the authorization of the Min- istry of Finance. Residents traveling abroad for med- ical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$1,000, which may be raised without any limi- tation, provided that a medical certificate is pre- sented. There is a 7.5 percent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. Education allowances are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$250 a donor a year. Profits and dividends may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation of regis- tration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods are imported under open general licenses. Individual licenses are required for imports that compete with local products unless they come from another member country of the Caribbean Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or 'The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 406 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 407 an approved U.S. dollar foreign currency account. Export duties are levied on a few products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Travelers to St. Kitts and Nevis may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. dence outside the area served by the ECCB may transfer their assets with the permission of the Min- istry of Finance. Direct investments in St. Kitts and Nevis by non- residents do not require exchange control approval. The remittance of proceeds from earnings on, and liquidation of, such investments is permitted, sub- ject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Kitts and Nevis. Capital Gold All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted subject to payment of any taxes due. Emi- grants leaving St. Kitts and Nevis to take up resi- There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, and holding of gold for either numismatic or industrial purposes. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident (External) Accounts The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Eastern Caribbean Central Bank also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Lucia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 30,1980. External accounts may be opened for nonresident individuals or companies with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning and are main- tained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be credited only with foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the Ministry of Finance and Plan- ning, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes. As funds in an external account are normally convertible into a foreign cur- rency, deposits to and withdrawals from such an account require exchange control approval by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Administration of Control Foreign Currency Accounts Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Planning and applies to all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary products. Import and export licenses are issued by the Minis- try of Trade; those for agricultural products are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settle- ments with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. When justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make pay- ments for goods and services in a currency other than that of the country to which payment is to be made. A foreign currency account is defined as an account denominated in a currency other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. With the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, residents or nonresidents may open foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers in St. Lucia. Such permis- sion is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent payments abroad. A resident or nonresident (whether an individual, firm, company, association, or institution) wishing to open a foreign currency account must apply to the Ministry of Finance and Planning through an authorized dealer, stating the nature and estimated volume of receipts and pay- ments in the desired foreign currency. All payments from a foreign currency account require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Where permission is granted, the authorized dealer must submit to the Ministry of Finance and Planning a monthly statement of account, together with full details of payments and receipts, to ensure that the conditions for holding foreign currency are observed. !The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. Imports and Import Payments All goods, except certain agricultural and manu- factured products, may be imported without a license. Certain other commodities require individ- ual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. The importation of selected consumer 408 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 409 items (e.g., rice, flour, and sugar) in bulk form is a state monopoly. Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs entry. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Goods produced or manufactured in the CARICOM region may be imported duty free. Imports of live animals, milk, meat, fish, eggs, fertilizers, and most agricultural and industrial machinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items include most imports from CARICOM and the member coun- tries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), certain imports for use in industry, agricul- ture, fishing, air and sea transport (under industrial incentive legislation), and items exempted under the Hotel Aid Ordinance and Fiscal Incentives Ordi- nance. St. Lucia implemented the first stage of the CARICOM Common External Tariff (CET) by lowering rates to a range between zero and 35 percent (except for imports of companies involved in local agricul- tural production) on July 1,1993. A customs service charge of 2 percent of the c.i.f. value is levied on all imports except fertilizers, for which the rate is 0.20 percent. Certain imports are subject to a con- sumption tax that is based on the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 a year for travel; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance and Plan- ning. Persons traveling within the CARICOM area using CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denomi- nated in Trinidad and Tobago currency) receive the basic allowance of EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of airline tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel within the CARICOM area and 5 percent for travel elsewhere. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is freely transferable within the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank area. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. How- ever, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period. Insurance premiums are taxed as follows: life insur- ance, 1.5 percent for residents and 3 percent for non- resident companies; general insurance, 3 percent for residents and 5 percent for nonresident companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities may be exported to any des- tination without a license. Proceeds must, in princi- ple, be surrendered. A duty at the rate of 2.5 percent of the f.o.b. value is levied on banana exports. A spe- cial fee of US$0.02 a barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Travel- ers to St. Lucia may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coins are not nor- mally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are not normally permit- ted to purchase foreign currency securities and real estate situated abroad for private purposes. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresi- dents, require approval, which is normally granted, provided that local tax liabilities have been dis- charged. Nonresidents who purchase property are taxed at a higher rate than are residents. Any resident who requires a loan from local sources must first have the approval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Applications for nonresi- dent loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other financial intermediary) to the Ministry of Finance and Planning on behalf of the applicant. Gold There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank. The Eastern Carib- bean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial bank sector. St. Vincent and the Grenadines accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on August 24,1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the central bank area. The Ministry of Finance delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other payments. istry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and pay- ments by residents may not be credited to external accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents with- out the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; these accounts may be cred- ited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and pay- ments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Imports and Import Payments Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 can be done in any currency. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in for- eign currency and with transfers from other external accounts. Except with the prior approval of the Min- ]The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. Import items are divided into three categories: the largest category covers goods that may be freely imported; imports of some goods that compete with typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, where required, of the license. In 1993, import licenses covered about 8 percent of the total import value. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. The import tariff rates range from zero to 35 percent. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to a consumption tax, which ranges from 5 percent to 50 percent and is levied on the tariff-inclusive value of imports. Goods imported from the member coun- 4The OECS comprises Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vin- cent and the Grenadines. 410 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 411 tries of the CARICOM are exempt from import tariffs and are subject only to the consumption tax. A cus- toms service charge of 2 percent is imposed on the c.i.f. value of all imported goods with certain exceptions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for travel, med- ical treatment, education, subscriptions and mem- bership fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$100 must be approved by the Ministry of Finance, and approval is granted routinely. Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the central bank area; for business travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$6,000 a year. These allocations may be increased with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the Ministry of Finance when a local medical practitio- ner presents a written statement of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the treatment. A 5 percent tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originating in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, whether or not they are purchased in the country. Students attending educational institutions over- seas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Docu- mentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. The amount of foreign cur- rency that may otherwise be purchased without the approval of the Ministry of Finance is limited to the equivalent of EC$50 a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARI- COM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to pre- vent depletion of stocks. All export proceeds must be surrendered within six months. A 2 percent export duty is levied on bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are normally not permit- ted to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad for private purposes. On pre- senting documentary proof that they are taking up permanent residence in a foreign country, emigrants may apply to the Ministry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The transfer of funds is normally limited to EC$100,000 a year as is the trans- fer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emi- grants already residing in a foreign country. Direct investment in St. Vincent and the Grena- dines by nonresidents is not subject to exchange con- trol. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation of proceeds from, such investment is permitted, sub- ject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic opera- tions requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are per- mitted for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1995 Prescription of Currency December 31. Settlements with residents of mem- ber countries of the Caribbean Common Market can be effected in any currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of San Marino is the Italian Lira.1 The central monetary institution is the Istituto di Credito Sammarinese. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For- ward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction at rates quoted in Italian markets. San Marino accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on September 23,1992. Administration of Control Under the terms of the Agreement on Financial and Exchange Relations of May 1991, the Central Bank of San Marino is a foreign exchange bank with the authority to grant foreign exchange dealer status to Sammarinese financial institutions; currently, Sammarinese banks may maintain accounts only with financial institutions in Italy. As a result, for- eign exchange transactions of domestic banks are effectively limited to buying foreign exchange at rates similar to those quoted in Italy and to conduct- ing third-country transactions through Italian correspondents. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlement effected through authorized Italian intermediaries (the Bank of Italy, the Italian Foreign Exchange Office, authorized banks, and the Postal Administra- tion). Direct settlements (with residents drawing on their own external accounts) authorized under Ital- ian Exchange Control Regulations in 1990 have not yet been utilized. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are made in convertible currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. ]The Monetary Agreement between San Marino and Italy, re- newed on December 21, 1991, provides for San Marino to issue annua l ly agreed amounts of San Marino lira coins equivalent in form to Italian coinage; these coins will be legal tender in both countries. The San Marino gold scudo is also issued but is legal tender only in San Marino. It is not generally used in transactions because its numismatic value exceeds its defined legal value (Lit 50,000 per 1 scudo). Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts; in practice, deposit accounts other than in lire are not offered by domes- tic banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Italy are not subject to restriction, whereas imports from third countries are subject to control under the relevant Italian regulations. No license, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade transactions. Trade is free of regulation except that the importation of elec- tricity, gas, and water is reserved for the public sec- tor. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Imports into Italy are currently governed by Decree No. 40 of December 22,1972, as amended. Customs duties on imports from non-European Union (EU) member countries are collected by the EU customs authorities on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied on all imports at the time of entry. The structure of this tax corresponds closely to the Italian value-added tax, but the average effective rate is about 4 percent lower. Sales tax levied on imports are rebated when the goods are re-exported. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds are not subject to surrender requirements. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. Exports to Italy are not regulated, while exports to third countries are governed by relevant Italian reg- ulations. Exports from Italy are currently governed by Decree No. 40 of December 22,1972, as amended. Exports to any country of products listed in Decree No. 68 require export licenses; other exports do not require authorization. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not regulated. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers, with few exceptions, are not restricted. Foreign direct invest- 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO 413 ments, irrespective of the extent of ownership, require government approval, which is based on conformity with long-term developmental and environmental policy considerations. The pur- chase and ownership of real property by nonna- tionals require approval from the Council of Twelve, and approval is granted on merit and on a case-by-case basis. There are no restrictions on the repatriation of profits or capital. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment with national firms; that is, investment incentives that are available to domestic investors are equally available to foreign investors. Gold International trade in gold is governed by the Italy-San Marino Agreement on Financial and Exchange Relations. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra. The official exchange rate is determined daily as an average of exchange rates in the exchange bureau, the parallel market, and a com- mercial bank. On December 31, 1995, the exchange rate (middle rate) for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was Db 1,756.88 per$l. Rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purpose of assessing charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange, namely import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the arrangements are as follows: when a letter of credit is opened, a charge of 1.125 percent of the import value, with a minimum of $25 and a maximum of $300, is payable with an additional commission of 0.5 percent to the Central Bank of Sao Tome and Principe. A stamp duty of 0.25 percent is also pay- able as well as a postage levy of $2. On foreign checks for collection, a commission is applied in favor of the collecting foreign correspon- dent and varies from bank to bank and with the type of currency. In addition, the International Bank of Sao Tome and Principe charges a postage levy of $2 for each transaction. For collection of export pro- ceeds, a commission of 0.125 percent that is charged, with a minimum of $25 and a maximum of $300, when the letter of credit is opened, and a fee of 0.125 percent is charged when the funds are received. A postage levy of $7.50 is also charged. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Central Bank, which applies the exchange controls flexibly. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through the Central Bank, with the exception of 30 percent of earnings retained by producer-exporters for import payments. (See the section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below.) Import and export licenses are automatically granted and recorded by the Directorate of External Commerce for statistical purposes. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions are made. A bilateral payment agreement with Cape Verde was terminated, and the corresponding debt to Cape Verde, which amounted to $1.65 million, was rescheduled on July 21,1995, through an agreement between the Central Bank of Cape Verde and the Central Bank of Sao Tome and Principe. The debt will be reimbursed in 20 equal semestrial installments. Imports and Import Payments All registered importers (including productive entities) are permitted to engage in import activity. Fuels and lubricants are imported by the public fuel enterprise, and medicines by the public pharmaceu- tical enterprise and the private pharmaceutical sec- tor. Import licenses are automatically granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. When importers open letters of credit, the International Bank requires them to lodge a deposit1 in domestic currency in the equivalent of zero to 100 percent of the value of the letters of credit, depending on the creditworthiness of the operator. Prepayment for imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit or through anticipated transfer when agreed upon by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for other invisi- bles are approved within limits established by the Central Bank. These limits, which allow for addi- tional amounts in justifiable cases, include those on (1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are inadequate; (2) transfers of remit- tances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earn- ings under technical cooperation agreements with Currently, the International Bank of Sao Tome and Principe does not remunerate these deposits, but it also chooses not to re- munerate any other type of deposits. 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 415 the Government; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, and costs of communication with for- eign countries. Purchases of foreign exchange by res- idents for purposes of tourism are limited, although airfares may be paid in domestic currency. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe before independence have been suspended. There are no limitations on remit- tances for subscriptions to periodicals and books or on the payments of interest on external debt. Foreign exchange allowances for medical pur- poses are flexible. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year, a stu- dent is granted permission to transfer funds for expenses related to courses taken abroad; the amount of the transfer must first be approved by the Ministry of Education and Culture. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 0.5 percent. An additional charge of $2 is imposed on invisible operations. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Investment Code, implemented on October 15,1992. Foreign capital investments, excluding the extraction of hydrocarbons and other mining industries, are permitted on the same basis as domestic investment. Repatriation of profits is permitted up to 15 percent a year of the value of the investment. Transfers are permitted for repayment of financing under agree- ments with the Government and for the amortiza- tion of private sector investments in activities considered to be in the national interest. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bulletins, which spec- ify the quantity and the c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. All export proceeds must be repatriated and collected through the International Bank. However, producers of exported goods may retain 30 percent of export proceeds in accounts with banks, including those abroad (if they are correspondent banks of the Central Bank), and may use the balances to meet their import requirements. Exports and imports of gold require special autho- rization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Proceeds January 1. The authorities eliminated the annual import program, as well as the registration require- ment for importers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 percent around the fixed relationship are allowed; these margins were suspended on July 22, 1981. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar; its rate against the riyal is determined by the Saudi Ara- bian Monetary Agency. Since June 1,1986, the Mone- tary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar has been SRls 3.745 per $1; the selling rate for U.S. dollars to banks has been SRls 3.75 per $1, and the buying rate from banks has been SRls 3.74 per $1. These rates serve as the basis for exchange quota- tions in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.125 percent above and below the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency's buying and sell- ing rates for commercial transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks of up to 12 months. Saudi Arabia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on March 22,1961. Administration of Control In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Saudi Arabia notified the Fund on September 5,1990 that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of Iraq and on September 15, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of pay- ments and transfers for current international trans- actions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency The use of the currency of Israel is prohibited.1 No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. !In addition, all imports from and all exports to this country are prohibited; payments may neither be made to it nor received from it for any type of transaction, whether current or capital. Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad is obtained freely. The importation of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of religion, health, or national security. Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging between zero and 12 percent; for a short list of imports, the rate is 20 percent, and for tobacco prod- ucts, 30 percent. Imports from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are exempt, provided that at least 40 percent of the value added in each case is effected in GCC countries and that at least 51 percent of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. Certain imported items that are subsidized by the Government may not be re-exported. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian banknotes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency requires local banks to obtain its approval before they invite foreign banks to participate in riyal-denominated syndicated transactions inside or outside Saudi Ara- bia. Prior approval from the Agency is also required for Saudi banks to participate in riyal-syndicated transactions arranged abroad. Similarly, the Agency's approval is required for lending to nonres- idents that originates in Saudi Arabia. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for certain benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign capital invested in industrial or agricultural projects with at least 25 percent Saudi 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 417 Arabian participation is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Inward portfolio investment in shares of listed Saudi companies is restricted to Saudi nationals. Inward investment in domestic collective invest- ment schemes that invest in shares of Saudi compa- nies is also restricted to Saudi nationals. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency's approval is required by Saudi banks before acquiring shares in a company established outside the Kingdom. For interbank deposits originating from foreign banks, only riyal deposits are subject to the Agency's reserve requirements. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without paying any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form, except manufactured gold and jewelry, which are subject to a 12 percent customs duty; gold of 14 karats or less may not be imported. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position as of June 30, 2996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The offi- cial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F l. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate in the Paris exchange market for the cur- rency concerned and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2 percent on pur- chases and sales of French francs and an exchange commission of 0.125 to 1.0 per mil on purchases and sales of foreign exchange other than those directly related to external transactions. In addition, the banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mil on transfers to all countries outside the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU),2 all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is avail- able to residents only for imports of a specified cate- gory of goods. All forward cover against exchange rate risk must be authorized by the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning. Forward cover may be provided only in the currency of settlement stipu- lated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of foreign exchange set- tlement stipulated in the commercial contract and must not exceed one month. For some specified products, the maturity of forward cover may be extended one time for up to three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold; the repatriation of export proceeds; the issuing, pub- licizing, and tendering of transferable securities and real property; and applications for investment abroad, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco. Nor do they apply to all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Togo). Hence, all payments l fThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2The treaty creating the WAEMU came into effect on August 1, 1994. It coexists presently with the treaty instituting the West Af- rican Monetary Union (WAMU). to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Senegal accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, which has delegated a part of the approval authority for exchange control to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The Directorate of Money and Credit exam- ines the requests for exchange authorization. Cus- toms officers monitor outflows of foreign exchange and confirm imports and exports of goods. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. The BCEAO exercises exchange controls ex post. Prescription of Currency Settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone may be settled through the West Afri- can Clearing House. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in French francs. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are subject to specific regu- lations indicating the credit and debit operations that are allowed. These accounts may not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French franc notes, or banknotes issued by central banks that maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury. They may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Funds may be transferred freely between nonresi- dent accounts. Imports and Import Payments The principle of most-favored-nation treatment applies to all Senegal's commercial partners. Quanti- 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 419 tative restrictions and prior authorization require- ments for certain imports are being phased out. At present, only unwrought gold, used vehicles, and secondhand clothing are subject to import authori- zation. Quantitative restrictions may be applied for products affecting public health and security. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 (f.o.b.). The exchange authorizations entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange but not earlier than eight days before the goods are shipped to Senegal if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of settlement if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lading). Fur- thermore, payments for imports, with the exception of down payments, are permitted only after the proper documents for customs clearance are submit- ted. Advance payments for imports require authori- zation, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange until the contractual date of the payments. All imports, valued at more than CFAF 1.5 million (f.o.b.) are subject to inspection by international agencies with respect to quality, quantity, price, and tariff classification. Import duties range between 5 percent and 45 percent (including a service fee of 5 percent stamp duty). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized banks are empowered to effect payments abroad of up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents without requir- ing documents. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted when a request for exchange authorization is submitted to the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Limitations on allowances for travelers are admin- istered in a nonrestrictive manner, and all bona fide requests in excess of the established limits are granted. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFA franc notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourism allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Upon arrival at customs, returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of pay- ment in their possession exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All residents traveling to countries that are not members of the WAEMU must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. Nonresident travelers may re- export means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in their name. The re- exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings and other means of payment issued in Senegal requires docu- mentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the trav- eler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. A foreigner working in Senegal may transfer his full net salary upon presenting the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions (e.g., precious metals, sugar, and groundnut oil) exports do not require prior authorization. Proceeds from exports to for- eign countries, including members of the WAEMU and the Operations Account countries, must nor- mally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than one month after the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 420 SENEGAL tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capi- tal transfers to all other countries require the approval of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over all inward and outward direct investment and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require the prior authorization from or prior notifi- cation to the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from prior authorization are oper- ations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guar- antee from the Senegalese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substi- tuted for, securities whose issue or offering for sale in Senegal has been previously authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the WAEMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at sub- scribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal3 require prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning; 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 must be reported to the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning before they are made. The Ministry has two months after receiving the notification to request postponement of the project. Both the mak- ing and the liquidating of direct and other invest- ments, whether Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lend- ing abroad requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, except in the cases of loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above, and loans contracted by authorized banks. The repay- ment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the authorization of the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning if the loan itself was subject to such approval. The Investment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. Special facilities for export industries are established in the Dakar export processing zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by trav- elers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold by brokers are subject to customs duties and taxes in effect. Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Senegal. Including those made by companies in Senegal that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 421 Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Senegal accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SDR 1 = SR 7.2345. Exchange rates for various currencies are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee, as derived from the fixed parity to the SDR. The Central Bank of Sey- chelles circulates these rates daily to the commercial banks. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent on purchases and 0.875 percent on sales of pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and French francs. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the Central Bank for the respective currencies. Other authorized dealers include casinos, guesthouses, hotels, restau- rants, self-catering establishments, tour operators, travel agents, shipping agents, and ship chandlers. These specific authorized dealers are restricted to buying only in the course of their licensed activity. They must sell all their foreign currency proceeds to the five commercial banks. With effect from July 3,1995, all other transactions in foreign exchange are prohibited, including one- way foreign exchange transactions that were previ- ously, by implication, allowed. Moreover, with effect from the same date, all nonresident, non-Seychellois persons are prohibited from funding accounts in Seychelles rupees. Thus, it is necessary that all accounts owned by such persons are funded initially and on an ongoing basis in foreign currency. Commercial banks are the only authorized sellers of foreign exchange. They allocate 64.8 percent of their foreign exchange inflows to a pipeline scheme for foreign exchange payments, which was intro- duced in April 1994. Under this scheme, commercial banks invite customers to deposit the rupee equiva- lent of their foreign exchange requirements in a spe- cial account. Since July 1995, the pipeline is divided into seven categories, depending on the type of pay- ment. A certain percentage of foreign exchange inflows is allocated to each category. The system operates on a first-come, first-served basis for each category at banks. The remaining 16.2 percent of foreign exchange inflows are used at the discretion of the commercial banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Seychelles accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Janu- ary 3,1978. Administration of Control Exchange controls are maintained in the form of administrative allocation of foreign exchange for the making of certain payments. This applies to the 64.8 percent of foreign exchange inflows allocated to the seven pipeline categories and the 19 percent sur- render requirements. A team, consisting of Central Bank and Ministry of Finance representatives, has been created to administer and police the enforcement of the prohi- bition for those other than authorized dealers to undertake foreign exchange transactions. The Ministry of Finance partially controls foreign trade and domestic marketing through a mechanism of import and price controls. Import controls are exercised over goods by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance, while price con- trols are administered by the Consumer Relations Unit on behalf of the Ministry. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments No legal restrictions are placed on payments for imports. However, a shortage of foreign exchange has led to arrears with respect to commercial pay- ments that constitute a de facto restriction on import payments. Importers other than individuals are required to obtain import licenses from the Seychelles Licensing Authority, in accordance with objective criteria. In addition, for each shipment of commodities, an importer must apply for a permit to the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance. Granting of permits is at the discretion of this divi- sion. A permit is normally not granted for cars older than three years and for some nonessential com- modities, for example, ornamental vases and chew- 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 423 ing gum. In addition, certain goods can only be imported by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Most imports are subject to a trade tax at rates ranging up to 600 percent, with the bulk of imported commodities falling in the range of 5 percent to 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no legal restrictions on payments for invisibles, and no legal limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of foreign cur- rency and up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods to any country, but a permit is required for each shipment of commodi- ties. These permits are granted on a routine basis by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance. Exporters are required to surrender 19 per- cent of foreign exchange receipts for purchases of essential imports by the Seychelles Marketing Board, loan repayments, and requirements by a util- ity company. Foreign currency may be accepted by businesses in payment for goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, with the excep- tion of dividend remittances and transfers of man- agement fees, may be disposed of freely. A prohibition on these items has been in place since July 3, 1995. Foreign currency may be accepted by businesses in payment for services. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Since July 3,1995, payment in respect of transfers of proceeds of sale of assets should be withheld. There are no other restrictions on capital transfers. Investment outside Seychelles by permanent resi- dents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limita- tions. Foreign investment is freely permitted, pro- vided that such investment does not involve ownership of land. Commercial banks in Seychelles are required to restrict credit to non-nationals primarily for working capital purposes and generally to an amount that does not exceed overseas funds invested in Sey- chelles in enterprises in certain priority sectors, that is, agriculture and fishing, manufacturing, construc- tion, and tourism. Additionally, penalty loan rates are imposed on credit secured by foreign assets. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, except for dealings in gold bullion, which are restricted to authorized dealers. Sey- chelles has issued the following commemorative gold coins, which are also legal tender: (1) two coins issued by the Currency Board in the denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000; (2) a coin in the denomina- tion of SR 20 to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the Central Bank in December 1983; (3) a coin in the denomination of SR 25 issued in April 1984 to mark the World Fisheries Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization; (4) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 issued in February 1986 to commemorate the United Nations Decade for Women; (5) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 issued in June 1986 to mark the tenth anniversary of Seychelles' independence; (6) a coin in the denomi- nation of SR 1,000 issued in June 1987 to commemo- rate the tenth anniversary of the June 5, 1977 Liberation; (7) two coins in the denominations of SR 100 and SR 1,000 issued in December 1988 to mark the tenth anniversary of the Central Bank; (8) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 issued in April 1990 to mark EXPO '90 in Osaka, Japan; (9) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 issued in December 1993 to commemorate the fifteenth anniversary of the Central Bank; (10) a series of coins with wildlife motifs issued in June 1994, including the magpie robin in denominations of SR 250 and SR 50, and the milkweed butterfly in the denominations of SR 250, SR 50, and SR 50; and (11) a gold coin issued in 1995 with the theme "Olympic Games 1996 — Surfing" in the denomination of SR 100. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement July 3. Transactions in foreign exchange by com- mercial banks other than those for which they are licensed were prohibited, including one-way foreign exchange transactions that were previously, by implication, allowed. Moreover, with effect on the same date, nonresident persons were prohibited from fund ing accounts in Seychelles rupees. July 3. The surrender requirement for exporters was increased to 19 percent from 15 percent of for- eign exchange inflows, for purchases of essential imports by the Seychelles Marketing Board, loan repayments, and requirements by a utility company. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone. Exchange rates are freely determined on the basis of demand and supply in the market. Commer- cial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign exchange with customers and trade among themselves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone, the central bank, on a freely negotiable basis. Foreign exchange bureaus are limited to spot transactions and are not allowed to sell traveler's checks. The central bank determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, including cus- toms valuation purposes, which is based on the weighted-average rate of commercial bank and for- eign exchange bureau transactions in the previous week. On December 31,1995, the official buying and selling rates were Le 932.11 and Le 950.76, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking and foreign exchange bureau sectors. Sierra Leone accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on December 14,1995. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Department of Finance, in consultation with the cen- tral bank, but the day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the central bank with the assistance of the commercial banks. Commercial arrears are maintained with respect to external payments.1 Prescription of Currency Foreign exchange transactions are subject to exchange control. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an external account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in U.S. dollars. Receipts from exports to countries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external account lrThe clearing of these arrears is being addressed under the sec- ond phase of the debt reduction program that is expected to be executed before the end of 1996. in the currency of the importing country or in any specified currency.2 The West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) provides for settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) as well as with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents in Sierra Leone are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts denominated in any convertible currency with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. These accounts, for which minimum balances vary from bank to bank, earn interest at a rate determined by the com- mercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad, and balances on these accounts may be converted into leones to meet the account holder's local expenditures. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign currency accounts for payment of current international transactions are permitted without prior approval from the central bank, subject to fulfilling the regulations governing the transaction. Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone on behalf of diplomatic missions, UN agencies, and their accredited staff are designated as external accounts. Imports and Import Payments All goods may be imported freely without a license. Authority to approve transactions is dele- gated to the commercial banks. All applications for purchases of foreign exchange to pay for imported goods must be supported by the following docu- ments: a completed exchange control form Al, origi- nal tax pro forma invoice or final invoice, original bill of lading or airway bill, and tax clearance certifi- cate, all of which should be submitted to a commer- cial bank (authorized dealer) in Sierra Leone. Goods to be financed with importers' own external foreign exchange resources do not require letters of credit 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 425 established with a local commercial bank (autho- rized dealer). All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and goods specifically exempted by the Secretary of State for Finance, are subject to preship- ment inspection and price verification by an interna- tional company appointed by the Government. A sales tax of 20 percent of the landed value is lev- ied on all imports except for capital goods and their spare parts, petroleum products, and baby food. All imports by unincorporated businesses are subject to a tax of 2 percent as advance payment of income taxes. Payments for Invisibles Authority to provide foreign exchange for legiti- mate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks. In general, commercial banks are authorized to make payments for invisibles such as school fees, medical treatment abroad, interest on external loans, subscriptions, insurance premiums, and administra- tive expenses provided payments are made directly to the institution providing the service and appro- priate documentary evidence is submitted, includ- ing a tax clearance certificate. Applications for basic travel allowances in excess of $5,000 a trip must be supported by traveling documents. Banks may also approve educational and maintenance expenses abroad of up to $10,000 a year. Authorized dealers, however, are free to remit expenses to bona fide stu- dents and dependents above the indicative limit without restrictions. An expatriate's salary may be remitted abroad on submission of a valid work permit, the remunera- tion package agreement, and a tax clearance certifi- cate. Remittances are limited to the remuneration package. Commercial banks (authorized dealers) can trans- fer abroad profits earned by nonresidents from an authorized business or transaction in Sierra Leone without restrictions or reference to the central bank. Such profits include dividend income or net ordi- nary income and other investment income (royalty, rents, etc.). The request must be supported by docu- ments evidencing profit payments and income tax deductions taken at the source, or a tax clearance certificate. Travelers can take foreign exchange out of Sierra Leone up to $5,000 without restriction. Residents should declare on departure foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 with supporting documents. Non- residents can take foreign exchange out of Sierra Leone up to the amount they brought in. Incoming nonresidents are, therefore, advised to disclose amounts of foreign currency brought into Sierra Leone if they anticipate taking out amounts in excess of the permitted allowance, disclosure is, however, optional. On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers may take out with them up to Le 50,000 in Sierra Leo- nean currency notes. A travel tax of 10 percent is lev- ied on the price of tickets purchased locally and is payable when the ticket is purchased. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required for exports of gold, dia- monds, and other mineral products; these export licenses, valid for one year or six months, are issued by the Department of Mines. All exporters are required to complete export forms that must be endorsed by the exporter's com- mercial bank. Exports of the following articles are prohibited: those containing more than 25 percent silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, and pearls (excluding personal jewelry or ornaments up to a value not exceeding the leone equivalent of $1,000); postage stamps of philatelic interest; and works of art. Exporters are obligated to repatriate export proceeds within 90 days of the date of export (approval of the central bank is required for an extension beyond 90 days), but they are not required to surrender them to any government body. Licensed exporters of diamonds are allowed to transact their business in U.S. dollars and must pay an administrative fee of 1.0 percent and an income tax of 1.5 percent, which are based on the value of the diamonds exported and payable in U.S. dollars. Proceeds from exports of diamonds that were refinanced are not subject to the repatriation require- ment. Licensed exporters of gold must pay a 2.5 percent royalty on their exports. All goods exported from Sierra Leone and endorsed by a commercial bank, except those exempted by the Secretary of State for Finance, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verifica- tion, which is undertaken by an inspection company appointed by the Government. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspection fee of 1 percent before clearing their goods through customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may be offered for sale to authorized dealers or deposited in a foreign cur- rency account. The importation of domestic bank- notes is limited to Le 50,000 a traveler. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 Capital SIERRA LEONE Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone are required to obtain permission from the central bank to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by non- residents, including profits, may be repatriated at any time, provided that exchange control approval of the investment was obtained at the outset. In addition, outward remittance of interest and amorti- zation on external loans may be made upon submis- sion of the appropriate documentary evidence including the loan agreement and a tax clearance certificate. The prior approval of the central bank is required in order to contract an external loan. Issuance and transfers of securities are subject to exchange control by the central bank. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he or she serves as nominee resides outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission; for permis- sion to be given, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. Income tax and customs duty conces- sions are granted to foreign and domestic companies undertaking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Non- citizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business, under the Noncitizen Trade and Business Act of 1969. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean com- memorative gold coins. Residents are not allowed to hold gold in the form of bars or dust without a valid miner's or dealer's license. Imports of gold in any form, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, require individual import licenses. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement December 14. Sierra Leone accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Payments for Invisibles December 21. Commercial banks were allowed to provide foreign exchange in excess of applicable limits without the approval of the central bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. Singapore follows a policy under which the Sin- gapore dollar is permitted to float, and its exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, and all other currencies is freely determined in the foreign exchange market. However, the Mone- tary Authority of Singapore monitors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade- weighted basket of currencies, with the objective of promoting noninflationary sustainable economic growth. The closing interbank buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1995 were SS1.4150 and S$1.4153, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are available throughout the working day and are based on the currencies' exchange rates against the U.S. dollar in interna- tional markets. Banks are free to deal in all curren- cies, with no restrictions on amount, maturity, or type of transaction. Foreign currency futures are traded at the Sin- gapore International Monetary Exchange. Banks can hedge their exchange rate risk through a forward foreign exchange transaction. There is an active short-term foreign exchange swap market among the banks in the domestic money market. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely inter- changeable, at par and without charge, in Singapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on November 9,1968. Administration of Control There are no formal exchange controls, but the Monetary Authority of Singapore retains responsibil- ity for exchange control matters. The Trade Develop- ment Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import- and export-licensing requirements for a very small number of products under its control. Financial assets owned by residents of Iraq and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are blocked. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. There is no distinction between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Very few items imported into Singapore are duti- able. Customs duties are levied on imports of liquor, tobacco, petroleum, and motorcars. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Singapore is a party to the Agreement on the Com- mon Effective Preferential Tariff (CEPT) Scheme for the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA). The CEPT Scheme came into operation on January 1,1993. Import licenses are required for rice, irrespective of the country of origin. Singapore observes the import prohibitions governed by the United Nations Security Council Resolutions. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange that may be used for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Singapore banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Singapore observes the export prohibitions gov- erned by the United Nations Security Council Reso- lutions. Certain exports originating in Singapore— for example, textiles and textile products —are sub- ject to quantitative restrictions and other nontariff barriers in the importing countries, particularly the United States, Canada, Norway, and the members of the European Union. Export licenses are required for substances that deplete the ozone, timber, and rub- ber, but there is no restriction on export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be sur- rendered and may be disposed of freely. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes and coins, including Singapore gold coins. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 428 Capital SINGAPORE There are no restrictions on capital transfers. Sin- gapore residents, including corporations, are allowed to make payments in all currencies to any country outside Singapore without restriction. Resi- dents may invest, borrow, and lend in foreign cur- rencies without prior exchange control approval and may deal freely in spot and forward foreign exchange transactions in all currencies. However, banks, merchant banks, and finance and insurance companies must consult the Monetary Authority of Singapore if they intend to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 million to nonresidents; loans in excess of S$5 million to residents for use outside Singapore must also have the approval of the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Non- Singapore citizens (excluding permanent residents of Singapore) and non-Singapore companies are not granted Singapore dollar loans for the purchase of residential properties in Singapore. Permanent resi- dents of Singapore, however, may be granted one Singapore dollar loan to purchase a residential prop- erty in Singapore for owner occupation. Banks in Singapore may freely accept deposits in foreign currencies. Financial institutions that have been approved to deal in Asian currency units (ACUs) in Singapore are able to offer better rates for foreign currency deposits placed with ACUs because of the absence of minimum cash reserve and liquidity requirements. The ACU is a separate accounting unit of financial institutions that enjoy a concessional tax rate of 10 percent on their income from transacting with nonresidents in foreign cur- rency; these institutions operate in the Asian dollar market. Transactions in Singapore dollars cannot be booked in ACUs. There are no restrictions on either direct or portfo- lio investments in Singapore by nonresidents or abroad by residents. Government approval is required for foreign investment in residential and other properties (including vacant land) that has been zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use. Foreign- ers may, however, freely purchase residential units in buildings of six or more stories and in approved condominium developments. Foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration to purchase other residential properties for their own use and, in the case of for- eign companies, to accommodate their senior per- sonnel. The maximum limit on the proportion of foreign shareholding in local banks is 40 percent. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore. Both res- ident and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and any person in Singapore can deal freely in gold. For imports, gold bars weighing 1 kilogram and above and 10-tola bars are exempt from the 3 percent goods and services tax (GST) if they are meant for re-exports. Movement of gold between two bonded warehouses in Singapore is also exempt from the GST. Gold may also be traded in the local market and the spot or futures markets. In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a "loco-London" basis for delivery of 995 fine gold. Kilobars of 999.9 fineness are most commonly traded, while 10-tola bars are also becoming popular. Spot gold prices for settle- ment in Singapore are derived by adjusting the "loco-London" price with the location premium, which takes into account the cost of transportation and insurance. A gold futures contract is also avail- able on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Slovak Republic is the Slovak Koruna. The external value of the koruna is pegged to a basket of two currencies within margins of ±1.5 percent and the official exchange rate is determined in fixing sessions conducted by the National Bank of Slovakia.1 On December 29,1995, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was Sk 29.6 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Slovak Republic accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on October 1,1995. Administration of Control The National Bank is responsible for the adminis- tration of exchange controls and regulations in coor- dination with the Ministry of Finance. In general, the Ministry of Finance has authority over governmen- tal credits and over budgetary and subsidized orga- nizations, civic associations, churches, foundations, and juridical persons who are not engaged in entre- preneurial activities. The National Bank has author- ity over the activities of all registered enterprises and entrepreneurs. Prescription of Currency Settlements are effected in convertible currency. From February 1993 through September 1995, com- mercial transactions with the Czech Republic had to be effected through a clearing account maintained by the central banks of the two countries. Transac- tions were converted from the currency of the con- tract into clearing ECUs at a rate that could differ by up to 5 percent from the market cross rate against the ECU set by the central banks. If the outstanding balance on the account at the end of any month exceeded clearing ECU 130 million, the excess amount was settled by the middle of the following month. Payments by legal persons and enterprises in connection with obligations incurred before Feb- ruary 8, 1993, were effected through another set of clearing accounts denominated in clearing koruny converted to ECUs at the exchange rate of !The currencies are the deutsche mark (weight 60 percent) and the U.S. dollar (weight 40 percent). The margin around the central rate was widened to ±3 percent on January 1,1995. February 8,1993. These accounts were settled every three months. On September 30, 1995, the bilateral clearing arrangement with the Czech Republic was termi- nated, and the outstanding balance remaining in the clearing account under the arrangement was expected to be settled by April 1,1996. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts. Slovak resident individuals (including unregistered entrepreneurs) may open interest-bearing foreign exchange accounts at any resident commercial bank without revealing the source of foreign exchange. Balances in these accounts may be used by the account holder without restriction. Resident enterprises that had outstand- ing foreign exchange accounts on December 31, 1990, have been allowed to maintain such accounts; new foreign exchange accounts, however, may be opened by enterprises after December 31,1990, with only a prior permit from the National Bank that exempts enterprises from the 100 percent surrender requirement. Balances on these accounts may be freely used to finance enterprises' activities. Nonresident Accounts. Nonresidents (natural and juridical persons) may maintain two types of inter- est-bearing accounts: (1) Domestic currency accounts may be opened with commercial banks in koruny. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make payments in the Slovak Republic. All pay- ments abroad from these accounts for invisibles, except transfers relating to inheritance and alimony, require a permit from the National Bank. These per- mits are granted only in exceptional cases; (2) For- eign currency accounts may be opened by nonresidents. Foreign exchange may be deposited freely in these accounts, and payments may be made from these accounts in the Slovak Republic or abroad without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or private individual. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, namely, crude oil, natural gas, firearms and ammu- nition, and narcotics. In addition, an automatic licensing system accompanied by variable levies applies to imports of 12 agricultural products and coal. All imports, except, those from the Czech 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Republic, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff, ranging from zero to 15 percent, with a few excep- tions. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the General- ized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, 42 developing countries benefit from a duty exemp- tion, and 80 others are granted a 75 percent reduc- tion from the applicable customs duties; tropical products are granted an 85 percent reduction from the applicable customs duties. All consumer goods are also subject to a temporary import surcharge of 10 percent. A resident individual is required to repatriate for- eign exchange acquired abroad and to sell to a bank or deposit in a private foreign exchange account for- eign exchange, including gold (with the exception of gold coins) exceeding the equivalent of Sk 5,000. Resident enterprises are normally required to repa- triate without delay foreign exchange receipts from exports and sell them to commercial banks. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), to facilitate voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or to preserve natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgi- cal materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construction materials) for the domes- tic market. For the two latter groups of products, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Fees are applied to noncommercial exports of a few products (certain food items and selected types of porcelain and glassware) in excess of a certain value. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Slovak residents may withdraw an unlimited amount of foreign exchange from their foreign cur- rency accounts to make invisible payments. In addi- tion, the annual limit on foreign exchange allowances for tourist travel abroad is Sk 60,000 (about $2,000). Official travel by employees of bud- getary and subsidized organizations is subject to dif- ferent allowances, depending on the country of destination. Transfers of alimony may be made to all countries. A special permit is required in most instances for remittances relating to family mainte- nance, education, and medical treatment. Repatriation of wage savings in koruny by non- resident workers must be authorized by the National Bank. With certain exceptions related to tourism, the exportation and importation of koruna banknotes abroad are restricted. Licenses are not required for the importation or exportation of for- eign exchange assets, including foreign currencies, by nonresidents. Capital Registered enterprises may freely obtain trade credits. Financial credits from abroad require a spe- cial permit from the National Bank. Foreign direct investments abroad are subject to approval from the National Bank; approval is normally granted if such investments are considered to facilitate exports from the Slovak Republic. There is no limit on equity participation by non- residents. Credits may be obtained from foreign banks with the approval of the National Bank. For- eign exchange equity participation of foreign inves- tors can be deposited in a foreign exchange account with a resident commercial bank. Foreign investors may freely transfer abroad their dividends, profits, capital gains, and interest earnings. In the event of liquidation of the enterprise, they are allowed to repatriate freely the full value of their capital partici- pation and capital gains in the original currency after payment of taxes. Transfers of inherited assets abroad are allowed to all countries on a reciprocal basis. Gold Residents are required to sell gold (with the excep- tion of gold coins) to financial institutions dealing in foreign exchange within 30 days of acquisition. Without a foreign exchange license, nonresidents may export inherited gold coins, provided that they submit a certificate confirming that the coins are of no historical value, and they may export gold that they have imported into the country. To export any other gold, nonresidents must have a foreign exchange license. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement October 1. The Slovak Republic accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. A new foreign exchange law came into effect allowing the Slovak koruna to become fully convertible for current international transactions. Prescription of Currency May 19. The Slovak koruna was revalued by 4 per- cent under the bilateral payments agreement with the Czech Republic, thereby erasing most of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 431 5 percent devaluation against the Czech koruna in December 1993. September 5. The Slovak koruna was revalued by a further 1 percent under the bilateral payments agreement with the Czech Republic. September 30. The bilateral payments agreement with the Czech Republic was terminated; the bal- ance remaining in the clearing account under the arrangement was to be settled no later than April 1, 1996. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. The annual limit on foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel was increased to Sk 16,000 a person from Sk 9,000. July 1. The annual limit on foreign exchange for tourist travel was increased to the equivalent of Sk 30,000 a person. October 1. The annual limit on foreign exchange for tourist travel was increased to the equivalent of Sk 60,000 a person. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA (Position as of January 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Slovenia is the Tolar, the external value of which is determined in the exchange mar- ket by demand and supply. The Bank of Slovenia may also participate in the foreign exchange market and may buy and sell foreign exchange in transac- tions with the Government and commercial banks. Residents may conduct unlimited exchange transac- tions among themselves, and households may con- duct foreign exchange transactions with banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. The Bank of Slovenia does not prescribe spreads between buying and selling rates for banks' transac- tions with the public, and banks are free to set their own commissions. On December 31, 1995, the offi- cial exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was SIT 125.99 per $1. The Bank of Slovenia publishes daily a moving two-month average exchange rate for customs valuation and accounting purposes. There is no forward market for foreign exchange, but forward foreign exchange transactions are not prohibited. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Slovenia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Sep- tember 1,1995. Administration of Control Foreign exchange market operations are governed by the Law on Foreign Exchange Business promul- gated on June 25, 1991, which introduced a free for- eign exchange market operated by banks and exchange offices. The Law on Foreign Trade Transac- tions, effective March 27,1993, sets out the rules and regulations governing foreign trade activities. Prescription of Currency Slovenia maintains a payments agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, under which trade between the two countries may be set- tled through accounts in local currency or in foreign currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individuals and nonresidents are allowed to open and operate foreign currency accounts without restriction. Nonresidents may open local currency accounts with proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or of goods and services to residents. Balances (including accrued interest) in these accounts may be converted into convertible currencies and repatriated. Transfers of inheritance are allowed under conditions of reciprocity. Domes- tic legal entities are, in principle, not allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts; exceptions are provided for in the Law on Foreign Exchange Business. To accept foreign cash payments, as well as to pay with foreign cash, is restricted. Residents are required, in accordance with the Law on Foreign Exchange Business, to obtain permission from the Bank of Slovenia. Imports and Import Payments Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of control only, have been retained for specific groups of goods (e.g., drugs, explosives, pre- cious metals, and arms and ammunition) for secu- rity and public health reasons, in accordance with international conventions and codes. Slovenia main- tains a system of import quotas applicable only to certain textile products. Under the system managed by the Chamber of Commerce, quotas are frequently revised and allocated to Slovenian importers. In gen- eral, the quotas are distributed among the applicants based on the volume of production (for a producer) or turnover (for a trader). Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and from areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are controlled by Bosnian Serbs are prohibited in accordance with UN Resolution No. 942. A new Law on Customs and Tariffs came into effect on January 1,1996. The Law covers more than 12,000 items, with tariff rates ranging form zero to 27 percent; the tariff rate for certain agricultural products is 70 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles, except that residents are not allowed to transfer abroad receipts from services (including interest), and earnings must be spent in Slovenia. Exports and Export Proceeds In accordance with the sanctions of the United Nations against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 433 (Serbia/Montenegro), exports from this country are prohibited. Except for certain items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons in accor- dance with the international conventions and codes, exports are not restricted. Exports of textile products to the European Union (EU) are governed by the Agreement between the EU and the Republic of Slo- venia on Trade in Textile Products, initialed on July 23,1993; textile products originating in Slovenia are free from quantitative limits. The EU imposes tariff ceilings for only five categories of products. Export taxes are levied on the following products: unworked wood, 15 percent; worked wood, 10 per- cent; and scrap metal, 25 percent. Exporters are free to agree on payment terms with foreign importers. However, if the collection of export proceeds is delayed by more than one year, the transactions must be registered with the Bank of Slovenia as credit arrangements. Once received, export proceeds must be repatriated. Exporters have two business days to sell their proceeds to importers at a freely negotiated exchange rate or to use the pro- ceeds for payments abroad. After that time, they must sell their proceeds to an authorized bank. Exporters are exempt from customs duties pay- able on raw materials and intermediate and semi- processed goods used to produce export goods, provided that the value of exports is at least 30 percent higher than the value of imports if there is no domestic production of imported goods. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on proceeds from invisibles. Capital In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Foreign Credit Transactions, resident juridical per- sons may borrow abroad on commercial terms with- out restriction. The Government may, however, issue guarantees and borrow abroad only in accor- dance with specific laws passed by Parliament. Bor- rowing abroad and postponement of payments for imports for a period exceeding one year must be reported to the Bank of Slovenia. Short-term bank borrowing abroad was restricted in February 1995, when the Bank of Slovenia required borrowers to deposit 40 percent of foreign exchange loans with a maturity of less than five years (not used immediately to import) into an unre- munerated tolar bank account. Resident juridical persons may maintain accounts abroad only in specific cases as provided for by law and with the permission of the Bank of Slovenia. Only banks licensed for foreign payments may maintain accounts abroad. Resident companies may extend loans to nonresi- dent persons only with profits obtained from abroad. The Law on Foreign Investments of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is still being applied in Slovenia. A new law is under consideration. Deposit money banks are required to hold foreign exchange deposits abroad as cover against domesti- cally held foreign exchange deposits of domestic and foreign individual persons. The required depos- its range from 5 percent to 100 percent, depending on the maturity of domestically held deposits. They are also required to hold deposits abroad in an amount equal to 35 percent of their average monthly turnover of convertible payments over the preced- ing three months. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement September 1. Slovenia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Capital February 10. Forty percent of external borrowing with maturities of less than five years and not imme- diately utilized for import financing was required to be deposited to an unremunerated tolar bank account. Changes During 1996 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The Law on Customs and Tariffs, cover- ing more than 12,000 items with tariff rates ranging up to 24 percent, came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, which is issued by the Cen- tral Bank of the Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of its relationship to a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of the Solomon Islands' four major trading partners. The Central Bank may make dis- cretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar against the U.S. dollar each month within margins of 0.5 percent above or below the middle rate prevailing at the end of the previous month. The Central Bank provides the commercial banks with daily limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the Cen- tral Bank and the public. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates quoted by the banks in dealings with the public were US$0.2879 and US$0.2851, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. The forward cover facility, which previously existed mainly for bona fide trade or trade-related transactions, was discontinued on November 12,1995. The Solomon Islands accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Arti- cles of Agreement on July 24,1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank through the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1,1977. The Central Bank delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and may approve certain types of exchange applica- tions, up to specified limits. All persons residing in the Solomon Islands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange con- trol purposes, unless they have been granted tempo- rary resident status by an authorized dealer or the Central Bank. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved for citizens of foreign countries who intend to reside in the Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or have already resided in the Solomon Islands for over four years but can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near future. Ownership of real estate or a business indi- cates permanent resident status, regardless of the duration of residence in the Solomon Islands. Tem- porary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply with all provisions of the exchange control regulations. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the Solomon Islands notified the Fund, on October 14, 1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to persons residing outside the Solomon Islands may be met only by payments in that currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in the Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Solomon Islands dollars with authorized dealers, but approval from the Central Bank is required in order for these accounts to be credited from the Solomon Islands sources. Balances on such accounts may be transferred abroad with the approval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, provided evidence that they are properly due overseas is submitted. Authorized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions up to SI$25,000 without reference to the Central Bank. The rate of import levy is set at 8 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of divi- dends, profits, and other earnings accruing to over- seas residents from companies in the Solomon Islands, provided it can be shown they are properly 434 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 435 due overseas. Permanent residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing perma- nently outside the Solomon Islands are permitted, provided the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their pass- ports and airline tickets. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coins in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods other 'than round logs without exchange control formality, but they must comply with the terms of the General Author- ity issued by the Central Bank. The essential condi- tions of this General Authority require that payments for exported goods be received within three months of the date of exportation, that the export price be no lower than the price an exporter might reasonably be expected to receive for the goods for export to the destination involved at the date when those goods were sold or contracted to be sold under open market conditions, and that the proceeds be sold promptly to an authorized dealer. If exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Central Bank for a Specific Authority. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempt categories of goods, including most personal effects of passengers. Exports of round logs require Specific Authority from the Central Bank. The condition for issuance of a specific authority to export round logs is a market price certificate issued by the Ministry of Forestry, Conservation and Environment. Exports of logs are subject to an export duty of 27 percent if valued at US$75 or less (per cubic meter) and of 32 percent if valued at more than US$75 (per cubic meter). rized dealer. Overseas residents visiting the Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of cur- rency for travel expenditures. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily given for the withdrawal of nonresident-owned investment capital, repayment of loans contracted overseas, and the remittance of temporary residents' and emigrants' funds. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain limita- tions. Direct investment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to the Solomon Islands. For portfolio investments, approval from the Central Bank is needed before permanent residents may acquire or dispose of foreign securities. Approval is not normally given for the acquisition of overseas portfolio investments. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired before March 1,1977. Approval from the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity cap- ital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas must have approval from the Central Bank before it may bor- row funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. If initial or increased foreign investment is concerned, the Foreign Invest- ment Board must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Central Bank is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet under- taken any such transactions. Proceeds from Invisibles Changes During 1995 Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an autho- No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions but intervene in the exchange market to affect rates quoted by the commercial banks. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1995, commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the public were R 3.6483 buying and R 3.6496 selling, respectively, pe r$ l. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions, including cover for transactions by nonresi- dents. Authorized dealers are permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and ascertained foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or by nonresidents arising from authorized trade and non- trade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commit- ments or accruals. Subject to certain limitations, for- ward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresidents. The South African Reserve Bank pro- vides forward cover against U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transactions, with the margin based on an interest rate differential between the U.S. dollar and the rand. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available for certain forward transac- tions at market rates in certain freely transferable currencies for long-term loans. Gold mining compa- nies and houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their fu ture gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. South Africa accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on September 15,1973. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has dele- gated many of its powers to the authorized dealers. Import and export permits, when required, are gen- erally issued by the Director of Import and Export Control acting on behalf of the Ministers of Trade and Industry. Exchange for licensed imports is made available by authorized dealers upon proof of ship- ment or, when advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documentary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank.1 Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Common Monetary Area (CMA) constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho and Namibia but not in Swa- ziland.2 Settlements by or to residents of the CMA with countries in the nonresident area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency.3 Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents4 are divided into nonresident accounts, and emigrant blocked accounts. Nonresident accounts may be credited with all authorized payments made by South African resi- dents with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency to authorized dealers in South Africa and with pay- ments from other nonresident accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to CMA residents for any purpose (other than loans); for pay- ments to nonresidents for any purpose, by transfer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the CMA; for the cost of pur- chases of any foreign currency; and for payments to account holders residing in South Africa for short periods. Emigrant blocked accounts are the accounts of emi- grants from the CMA and are subject to exchange control restrictions. Cash or proceeds from any other South African assets held at the time of departure Authorized dealers can permit, without the Reserve Bank's approval, advance payment of up to 33Va percent of the ex fac tory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it. 2Lilangeni banknotes issued by Swaziland, maloti banknotes issued by Lesotho, and Namibian dollar notes issued by Namibia are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal ten- der in South A f r ica. 3Foreign currency, foreign exchange, exchange, and specified currency refer to any currency other than currency that is legal tender in the Republic of South Africa, but not to the currencies of Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. 4A nonresident is a na tu ral or juridical person whose usual place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the CMA. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 437 and subsequently sold must be credited to this type of account. These funds may not be transferred out of South Africa or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but must either be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, used to make other specified payments to residents, or invested in any locally quoted securities (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Imports and Import Payments Goods subject to import control are listed in Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations pub- lished on December 23,1988, as amended. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Subdirectorate of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid for imports from any country. Imports that do not require a permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that are grown, pro- duced, or manufactured in these countries, with the exception of a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi and Zimbabwe. Importers are automatically granted exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to their bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when required. Payments are not normally allowed before the date of shipment or dispatch, except with prior approval or special authorization from the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). The system of import quotas, which affected most agricultural goods and a num- ber of manufactured products, has, to a large extent, been phased out and replaced with selective tariff measures. With certain exceptions, imports are sub- ject to a value-added tax; locally produced goods are also subject to the tax. Import surcharges have been abolished. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles without limitation and for others up to established limits. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers may, without consulting the Reserve Bank, approve current income pay- ments, such as declared dividends, profits, and roy- alties, that accrue in South Africa, provided that (1) the Department of Trade and Industry and the Reserve Bank have approved the relevant royalty agreement, and (2) the remittance of profits and div- idends had not involved excessive use of local credit facilities. The Reserve Bank gives favorable consid- eration to such transfers when the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income earned from securities held by nonresidents is freely trans- ferable to their country of residence, and limited amounts of exchange to pay for such items as mem- bership fees and family maintenance are authorized. There is an indicative limit on the travel allowance of R 25,000 a year for an adult (R 12,500 for a child under 12). Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 6,000 for an adult (R 3,000 for a child under 12) for travel to neighboring coun- tries (Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe). In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for overseas business trips at a rate not exceeding R 2,000 a day, up to R 38,000 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighboring countries listed above is R 12,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 900 a day. Exchange allowances in excess of the above limits may be provided with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Residents and contract workers leaving South Africa for destinations outside the CMA may take out up to 50 percent of their allowance in foreign banknotes. The amount of reserve banknotes, how- ever, may not exceed R 500, but this amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. For- eign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R500 in reserve banknotes and any amount of foreign notes brought into the country or obtained through the disposal of instruments of exchange brought into and converted in South Africa. These limitations on the exportation of reserve banknotes do not apply to contract workers returning to neighboring countries, who are permit- ted to take with them reasonable amounts in bank- notes. There are no limitations on the exportation of domestic currency to Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds A limited number of products considered to be in relatively short supply or controlled for strategic reasons that are exported to countries outside the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) require export permits. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months of the date of shipment or seven days of the date of accrual. Except for exports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for which the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 SOUTH AFRICA full proceeds are received in advance, exporters are permitted to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. Exporters benefit from certain incentive schemes under which they receive payments based on, inter alia, the f.o.b. value of exports, the local content of products, and the extent of processing involved. The main scheme, the General Export Incentive Scheme, is expected to be terminated by the end of 1997. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual unless an exemption is obtained. Residents and nonresidents entering from countries outside the CMA may bring in R 500 in reserve banknotes. There are no limita- tions on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Capital5 All inward loan transfers require specific approval,6 although inward transfers for investment in equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations out- side the CMA require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on foreign stock exchanges are generally not permitted. South African stockbro- kers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securi- ties, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South African residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investment in specific 5 Securities are defined not only as quoted stocks, shares, de- bentures, and rights, but also as unquoted shares in public com- panies, shares in private companies, government bonds, municipal bonds, public utility stocks, nonresident-owned mort- gage bonds, or participations in mortgage bonds. "Scrip" and "share certificates" include any temporary or substitute docu- ments of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, bal- ance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 6Domestic entrepreneurs are generally given approval for bor- rowing abroad with a ma tur i ty of at least three months, except for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names to finance South African foreign trade and for other approved purposes. development projects, or for the expansion of exist- ing projects owned or controlled by South Africans, are considered by the Reserve Bank on their merits. Investments designed to foster exports and maintain or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favorably. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete statement of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets transferred to South Africa may be retransferred abroad through the same channel within the first five years after arrival. The proceeds from the sales of any South African assets accrued by nonresidents are freely transfer- able abroad. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance and are permitted to transfer up to R 200,000 (R 100,000 for single persons). Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to an emigrant blocked account. Income earned by emigrants may be transferred through normal banking channels or credited to a nonresi- dent account. A family or single person emigrating can export one motor vehicle with a maximum value of R 75,000, provided that the vehicle was purchased at least one year before emigration. Emigrants can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 75,000, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in their possession for at least one year. Favorable consideration is given to nonresident- owned branches and subsidiaries for the transfer of open or approved loan account balances;7 profits and dividends declared on profits are freely transfer- able, provided that such remittances do not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physi- cal exportation from South Africa of nonresident- owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic pur- poses and investment. With this exception, residents of South Africa other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the Reserve Bank. Approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers for exports of jewelry constitut- 7Subject, however, to the 1994 Debt Arrangements, where ap- plicable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 439 ing the personal effects of a traveler, up to a value of R 40,000 (subject to a written declaration that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return); and for exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers, subject to a written declara- tion that the articles are in final manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the ultimate con- signee. Furthermore, after approval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to numisma- tists. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank, which has been nominated as agent for the Treasury, within one month of produc- tion. With effect from October 1987, the Reserve Bank pays the gold mines in U.S. dollars for their sales of production. As a special concession, the industry may retain approximately one-third of its production for the minting of gold coins and kilo bars. The mint strikes gold coins and the krugerrand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 13. The abolished. financial rand system was Imports and Import Payments October 1. Import surcharges were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. Spain participates with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, and Portugal in the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Spain maintains the spot exchange rates between the Spanish peseta and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain, the central bank, stands ready to buy or sell the curren- cies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31,1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Austrian schillings 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 Deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Portuguese escudos Spanish Peseta Upper limit Lower limit 1,404.1000 1,041.3000 478.9440 2,589.8000 9,878.5000 2,945.4000 238.1750 8,767.3000 96.3670 365.2080 1,920.7000 7,326.0000 2,184.4000 176.6410 6,502.2000 71.4690 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluc- tuations in exchange rates, the intervention curren- cies being each other's, the U.S. dollar, and the ECU. Official rates for specified currencies3 are quoted on the basis of market rates and are published daily. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent (in the case of Portugal and Spain, 6 percent) to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the f luc tua t ion band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guil- der remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. 2Effective intervention rates may vary within the limits of these maximum intervention rates, depending on daily fluctuations in the cross rates between currencies. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency 440 On December 29,1995, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was Ptas 121.41 per $1. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in for- eign markets for spot and forward transactions. All future transactions involving an identifiable exchange risk are eligible for forward cover. There are no limits on periods to be covered. There are no limits on forward or spot foreign currency positions of individual banks, except those stemming indi- rectly from prudential rules on maximum net for- eign exchange exposure. Under existing regulations, consolidated net foreign exchange exposure must not exceed a percentage, determined by the Bank of Spain, of the consolidated resources of each banking group. Spain accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 15,1986. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the Directorate-General of External Transactions, han- dles exchange control regulations, including prior verification and remaining administrative authoriza- tion corresponding to the exportation of certain means of payment, foreign investment, and invest- ment abroad by Spanish residents. The Bank of Spain handles the foreign exchange market (both spot' and forward); regulates and supervises commercial banks' activities; and is responsible for reporting requirements concerning nonresident accounts in domestic banks, resident accounts in foreign banks, and borrowing (both nontrade short-term and long- term) between residents and nonresidents. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Spain notified the Fund on September 21,1992, that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 of 1992, certain restrictions had been units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Neth- erlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 441 imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles may be made in pesetas or in any other currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open any kind of deposit account in pesetas or foreign currency in all financial institutions. Residents may open accounts in pesetas or foreign currency with any financial institution abroad. Nonresidents' accounts in Spain and resi- dents' accounts abroad are subject to reporting requirements. Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports into Spain may be made freely. However, imports of certain goods (e.g., trac- tors, explosives, seed oil, and gold) must be autho- rized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin, or when imported from specific geographical areas (with dis- tinctions being made among the members of the European Union (EU), those of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), the Mediterranean and the ACP,4 member countries of the World Trade Organization (WTO), and state trading countries). Foreign exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through accounts in domestic and foreign financial institutions or other means of payment, including checks and transfers, subject to certain reporting requirements. The exportation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in banknotes, coins, and bearer checks must be declared and that of more than the equivalent of Ptas 5 million requires autho- rization. Nonresident holders of Spanish securities may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, divi- dends, proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights, and the proceeds from the liquidation of such securities. Profits and dividends on direct invest- ments and rents on nonresident-owned real estate are freely transferable abroad. A general license per- mits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain 4A f r ican, Caribbean, and Pacific state signatories to the Lome Convention with the EU. with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance compa- nies operating in Spain. Unless special authorization is otherwise granted, insurance contracts abroad are restricted to cover exports and imports of goods and related operations. Exports and Export Proceeds As a general rule, exports may be made freely. However, exports of a limited number of goods (e.g., textiles, steel, and some copper by-products) require prior authorization from the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of destination. Proceeds from Invisibles The importation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in banknotes, coins, and bearer checks must be declared only when they are intended for investment or banking purposes. All proceeds from invisibles may be used freely. Capital Foreign direct investments in Spain are defined in accordance with guidelines established by the Orga- nization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- ment (OECD) that take into account whether effective control over the company has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the investment is at least 10 percent of the company's capital or if the Directorate-General of External Transactions considers that an important or predominant source of influence exists. Foreign investments effected through participation in Span- ish companies are permitted freely in most cases. Prior verification is required only when foreign par- ticipation exceeds 50 percent and at least one of the following conditions applies: (1) foreign participa- tion exceeds Ptas 500 million; and (2) foreign inves- tors are residents of tax haven countries. Special authorization is required for non-EU foreign invest- ment in defense-related industries, telecommunica- tions (over 25 percent of capital), television, radio, air transport, and gambling. Special authorization is also required for a foreign government's participa- tion in Spanish companies (other than governments of EU countries) unless otherwise regulated by inter- national treaties. The reinvestment of profits or proceeds from liq- uidation of existing investments is not restricted. Nonresidents may freely purchase any kind of financial assets and contract all types of commercial credit without restriction, but these transactions must be reported to the Bank of Spain. Verification is required before Spanish companies issue shares in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 SPAIN foreign markets; otherwise, securities operations are permitted freely. Real estate investments require prior verification for amounts exceeding Ptas 500 million or if investors are residents of tax haven countries. The proceeds from the liquidation of nonresident investments and capital are freely transferable abroad. Direct investments abroad by residents are per- mitted freely, although the following exceptions require prior verification: (1) the amount of the investment exceeds Ptas 250 million, (2) the purpose of investment is to hold shares of other companies, and (3) investment is in a tax haven country. Resi- dents may purchase freely securities issued by non- residents (irrespective of the market of issuance) or by residents in a foreign market. Strict information requirements apply to investments in securities and foreign lending. Prior authorization is required for direct investments by residents in non-EU countries where ownership of Spanish real estate or Spanish companies is transferred as a result of the operation. Investments in real estate by residents abroad is per- mitted, but those that exceed Ptas 250 million require prior verification. Gold The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Imports of bullion are permitted if they are used as raw materi- als for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in man- ufactured form (e.g., coins, medals, and the like) may be subject to quantitative restrictions, depend- ing on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, sil- ver, and platinum ingots are subject to a value- added tax at the rate of 33 percent. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 6. The upper and lower limits of the peseta for the currencies of participants in the ERM of the EMS were changed. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis dur- ing 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka announces the daily spot buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, against the Sri Lanka rupee for transactions with the commercial banks, within margins of 2 percent, and purchases and sells the U.S. dollar on a spot basis at the established rates. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Re 53.5268 and SL Re 54.6082, respectively, per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward sales are permitted to cover all transac- tions, with the exception of capital transfers and amortization of loans, up to a period not exceeding 360 days. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange market in which rates for current transac- tions are freely determined. They may cover such purchases by selling forward to their clients (that is, importers and shipping agents) or to other autho- rized dealers. Authorized dealers are permitted to quote forward rates for up to 360 days. Sri Lanka accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on March 15,1994. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as an agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Board of Invest- ments (BOI) handles all applications relating to for- eign investments in Sri Lanka. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from the member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (Ban- gladesh, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan) in connection with current transactions must be effected in Asian currency units or in the currency of the respective member of the Asian Clearing Union.1 For settlements with all other countries, payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees, provided that the supplier maintains a nonresident account in Sri Lanka. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account with the prior approval from the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank. Proceeds from exports must be received either in designated for- eign currencies,2 in Sri Lanka rupees from a nonresi- dent account maintained by a foreign bank with an authorized dealer, or in any other nonresident account maintained by an individual person with an authorized dealer, as approved by the Central Bank. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (1) for- eign nationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories, those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their departure, and those whose accounts are opened after their departure; (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1), (2), (3), and (4); the crediting of the initial and subse- quent deposits arising from inward remittances; and their debiting for local disbursements or outward remittances may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. However, local credits to these accounts require prior approval. Accounts in category (4) are designated as nonresident blocked accounts only when instruc- tions to that effect are received from the Department of Exchange Control. Local debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local following a decision taken by the Board of Directors of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) in 1995, which came into effect on Janua ry 1,1996, all transactions among member countries may be made in U.S. dollars. Aus tra l ian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 SRI LANKA credits to them and debits for outward remittances require prior approval under certain circumstances. Under category (5), foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonresident accounts with a local commercial bank without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for hold- ing funds, usually owned by nonresidents, repatri- ates, and emigrants that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them with the proceeds from pensions, income tax refunds, and profits and dividends with- out prior approval. Funds in blocked accounts may be invested in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Subject to exchange control approval, proceeds from the liqui- dation of such investments can be credited to blocked accounts. Balances of nonresident foreign citizens and foreign companies in approved blocked accounts outstanding on March 25, 1991, excluding Sri Lanka citizens who have emigrated or acquired foreign citizenship, and Indian and Pakistani expa- triates, may be remitted abroad. Sri Lankans who have emigrated and acquired foreign citizenship, and Sri Lanka citizens who have acquired perma- nent resident status abroad and whose accounts have been blocked for more than five years as of June 30, 1992, are also permitted to remit their account balances abroad. In all other cases, remit- tances of up to a maximum of SL Re 350,000 are allowed from these accounts without prior approval from the exchange control authorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fully transfer- able after deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings derived from the showing of foreign- owned films; the owner may use such retained funds for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals who are, or have been, employed abroad and foreign nationals of Sri Lanka origin who reside outside Sri Lanka are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) accounts in Sri Lanka in designated foreign curren- cies.3 Sri Lankans may also open such accounts within 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka with for- eign exchange they brought in or received from abroad. Credits to these accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from employment abroad 3In Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deut- sche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swed- ish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. and foreign exchange earnings brought into the country by individuals at the time of arrival. In addi- tion, interest payments in designated currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited without exchange control approval for payments abroad, with the exception of pay- ments received as purchase consideration for the sale of moveable or immoveable property in Sri Lanka, or for payments within Sri Lanka (converted to Sri Lanka rupees). Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises approved by the Board of Investments granted under Section 17 of the BOI Act. Dividends and profits earned and sales proceeds of such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to the NRFC accounts without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Rupee loan facilities for members of the family of the account holder against NRFC balances are also permitted. Employment agencies that recruit Sri Lanka nationals for foreign employment are also allowed to maintain NRFC accounts, to which their commission earnings may be credited. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may establish foreign currency banking units (FCBUs). These units may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresi- dents, resident commercial banks, and any resident BOI enterprise permitted to have FCBU accounts. They may extend loans and advances in any desig- nated foreign currency to any nonresident, any resi- dent commercial bank, any resident enterprise having BOI status, any exporter for the purchase of imported inputs, and a few other specified organiza- tions with approval from the Central Bank. Foreign currency banking units are also allowed to accept time and demand deposits from, and grant loans and advances to, any other resident approved by the Central Bank. Foreign currency banking units are also authorized to operate savings accounts. How- ever, accounts allowing the withdrawal of funds by checks are not permitted. Sri Lanka residents may open and operate resi- dent foreign currency (RFC) accounts with a mini- mum balance equivalent to $10,000 in designated currencies without prior approval or documentary evidence of receipt of such funds through customs declarations for up to $5,000. Imports and Import Payments No prior licensing is required for imports, with the exception of imports requiring a license mostly for reasons of public health,, public morals, environ- mental protection, and national security. The import licensing requirement for four items, namely, wheat, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 445 muslin, and wheat and muslin flour, was main- tained in terms of a past contract. Certain agricul- tural items, namely, potatoes, onions, and chilies remained under licensing protection. The four-band import tariff structure with rates of 45 percent, 35 percent, 20 percent, and 10 percent, which came into effect in November 1993, was replaced in February 1995 with a three-band system with rates of 35 percent, 20 percent, and 10 percent. However, a few categories of products, i.e., tobacco, liquor, crude oil, and some categories of motor vehi- cles, remained outside the new system. With the 1995 budget, the tariff structure was further simpli- fied, with the elimination of several ad hoc duties, waivers, and exemptions. Duty waivers were con- siderably reduced during the latter half of 1995 by limiting them to well-defined purposes. Imports of specified items known as "reserved items," which include wheat, guns, explosives, and certain chemicals and petroleum products are restricted to government or state corporations. Certain machinery imports relating to foreign investment require the approval of the BOI, and cer- tain machinery imports relating to foreign invest- ment require the prior approval of the Local Investment Advisory Committee. No prior approval is required for any single consignment not exceeding SL Re 700,000. Holders of balances in convertible rupee accounts, which were closed to new credits as of November 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. However, on March 8, 1994, authorized dealers were informed that balances, if any, in the convertible rupee accounts should be treated as balances in ordinary rupee accounts. Except for imports by export-processing indus- tries and other specified transactions, all other imports may be effected only against sight docu- ments or against payment-term letters of credit valid for shipment for 180 days. Letters of credit on docu- ment against acceptance (DA) terms may be opened for imports of export-oriented industries and other high-priority areas for periods ranging from 120 days to 180 days. A stamp duty of 2 percent is levied on letters of credit for other imports (exclud- ing inputs used in export industries) not fully cov- ered by advance deposits. An authorized dealer may, without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange, approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit nonresident accounts against applications for the opening of a letter of credit and against proof of a valid import license, when appli- cable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a consignment does not exceed $3,000 (c.i.f.), con- sists of raw materials and spare parts for industries, and is for the direct use of the importer. Imports val- ued at $7,500 (c.i.f.) or less are permitted on docu- ment against payments (DP) and on DA terms without letters of credit when import documents are channeled through commercial banks. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles by residents may be made freely. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enterprises may remit their entire sav- ings after payment of local taxes and levies. Reasonable amounts earned as commissions are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad, provided that export proceeds have been repatriated to Sri Lanka. Remittances of premiums for insurance on exports are not permitted, and such insurance must be obtained from a local state insur- ance corporation or a private insurer. Remittances of premiums to foreign reinsurers for reinsurance are permitted. Profit remittances of nonresident partners of part- nerships in Sri Lanka and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of applica- tion and do not include undistributed profits of the previous years or reserves of the company. For remit- tances of interim profits, the following documents must be furnished: (1) a certificate from the com- pany's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remitta- ble profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of a nonresident partner) for the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary resides abroad; and (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount owed to each. For remittances of final profits, the following docu- ments must be submitted: (1) an audited copy of the company's profits and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; (2) a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents the final installment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under refer- ence; (3) a computation of the remittable profits; and (4) the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5), above, in connection with remittances of interim profits. Remittances of interim dividends can be made, provided that the following documents are submit- ted: (1) certification from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted repre- sents dividends only for the period to which it ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 446 SRI LANKA relates; (2) certification that the remittance consti- tutes an interim dividend based on the unaudited accounts for the period; (3) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary resides outside Sri Lanka; (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amounts owed to them; and (5) documentary evidence from auditors confirming payment of dividend tax. The remittance of a final dividend requires the submission of an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the bal- ance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) above. Resident foreigners may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of 10 designated currencies4 without prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its foreign currency banking unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but with- drawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the Controller of Exchange for remittance abroad; debits are limited to outward remittances and to payments after converting into Sri Lanka rupees. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be reconverted into foreign currency notes and coins only at the exit point (Katunayake Airport or Colombo Port). Recon- version into drafts, telegraphic transfers, or trav- eler's checks can be made at all branches of the authorized dealers as well as at the exit points. For this purpose, the original encashment receipts or memos issued by the authorized dealers or money changers must be furnished. Sri Lankans and foreign passport holders may take out convertible foreign currency equivalent to $10,000 without declaration, irrespective of the number of trips they make. The amount of foreign currency notes that diplomats, other foreign missions, and their non-Sri Lanka staff traveling abroad can take with them is limited to 20 percent of their travel expenses. A person leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Re 1,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of the following products require a license: coral shanks and shells, timber, ivory and ivory prod- 4Deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ucts, wood and articles of wood, and passenger motor vehicles registered in Sri Lanka for reasons of protecting the environment and preservation of antiques. The State Gem Corporation exercises qual- ity control over the exportation of gems; the private sector may export gems on a consignment basis with the prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. The Corporation handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export their gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports are not required to be repatriated. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member coun- try of the ACU. Commercial banks are permitted to grant foreign currency loans from their foreign cur- rency banking units to exporters for the financing of the importation of inputs required for the purpose of executing export orders. This facility is limited to 70 percent of the total value of the confirmed export order. The period of repayment of these loans is eight months. Companies engaged in indirect exports may obtain foreign currency loans for the importation of raw materials on the basis of back-to-back letters of credit opened in foreign currency for receipt of pay- ment in foreign currency, including payments from BOI enterprises. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles are not required to be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his or her foreign exchange holdings exceeding $10,000, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of noncon- vertible currencies after making a declaration to cus- toms. A Sri Lanka national entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Re 1,000. Capital Approval for foreign investment is granted on the basis of the types of activity and the proportion of foreign capital ownership; approval is automatically granted for foreign investment with equity capital ownership of up to 40 percent, except for certain activities restricted by special law or specific organizations. Foreign direct investments are permitted in new projects with or without prior approval from the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 447 Controller of Exchange in terms of Government Notification No. 721/9, dated June 29, 1992. Pro- ceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in these projects, along with the capital appreciation, may be remitted in full. Investments in shares by nonresidents, up to 100 percent of the equity capital of existing listed and unlisted public companies, are permitted, subject to certain exclusions and limita- tions, without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange through a share investment external rupee account maintained at a commercial bank. Proceeds from the sale of these shares may be repatriated automatically, net of any tax. Blocked funds held by nonresidents, with the approval of the Controller of Exchange, in commercial banks are also permitted for investment in approved projects. Sale proceeds of such investments must be credited to blocked accounts. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of other foreign investments in Sri Lanka may be repa- triated in full only with prior approval from the Minister of Finance. Investments abroad by residents are not generally permitted unless there is evidence that they will pro- mote the country's exports and generate reasonable profits. Resident-owned securities, on which princi- pal, interest, or dividends are payable (either con- tractually, or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency, must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securi- ties is allowed only with the permission of the Con- troller of Exchange. Companies incorporated abroad are permitted to invest in securities traded at the Colombo Stock Exchange, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to such invest- ments by approved country funds, approved regional funds, and nonresident individuals, includ- ing Sri Lankans residing abroad. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appro- priate documentation. At the time of departure, emi- grants may be granted foreign exchange to cover passage to the country of migration by normal direct route plus 20 percent of the passage fare to cover excess baggage expenses. Foreign exchange equiva- lent to a maximum of $2,000 an adult and $1,000 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects of reasonable amounts plus jewelry up to SL Re 150,000 for each married woman, SL Re 60,000 for each unmarried woman, SL Re 30,000 for each girl under 12 years of age, and SL Re 37,500 for each man can be exported. Emigrants have also been permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Re 750,000 an individual, up to a maximum limit of SL Re 1 million a family unit. The transfer abroad of pensions in full and interest income are permitted without exchange control approval, subject to submission of an income tax clearance certificate. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer in full assets representing their retirement funds and savings. Persons who have had small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agree- ment between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Exports of gold bullion require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Controller of Exchange. Imports of gold by Sri Lankans are subject to payment of import duty, the turnover tax, and the defense levy. Commercial banks are permitted to import gold on a consignment basis for duty free sale to passengers at the Colombo International Airport, under a license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Commercial imports of jewelry and other articles containing gold are permitted on payment of import duty, the turnover tax, and the defense levy. Imports of gold for the production of jewelry for exportation is permitted without payment of duties and taxes. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 20. The Central Bank increased the spread between the intervention points for transactions in the interbank market from one to two percentage points. Resident and Nonresident Accounts December 29. The Central Bank approved the Ital- ian lira as a designated currency for purposes of nonresident foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments February 8. The maximum standard tariff rate was reduced to 35 percent from 45 percent by moving virtually all items into the 35 percent band from the 45 percent band. At the same time, various tariff rates were changed, most notably the rate on textiles and clothing, and carpets and other textile floor cov- erings was reduced to 35 percent from 50 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Dinar,1 the external value of which is determined in the market of foreign exchange dealers. Both commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus are autho- rized to freely quote buying and selling exchange rates to be applied to all transactions, other than cer- tain compulsory sales of foreign exchange by com- mercial banks to the Bank of Sudan. The spread between commercial banks' buying and selling rates was changed from LSd 7 per U.S. dollar to 1.5 per- cent of each bank's buying price. On December 31, 1995, the average buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LSd 829 and LSd 841, respectively, per $1. Fifty percent of foreign exchange surren- dered to commercial banks is subject to compulsory sale to the Bank of Sudan at each bank's quoted sell- ing rate plus LSd 3. The Bank of Sudan's reference rate was eliminated in September 1995 and the offi- cial exchange rate is determined as the weighted average rate of all dealers in the market. Foreign exchange dealers are authorized by the Bank of Sudan to sell foreign exchange to be trans- ferred abroad for all purposes. Under a central bank regulation, the commercial banks are obligated to require 100 percent cash cover before agreeing to the sale of foreign exchange. When foreign exchange is made available by a commercial bank against a letter of credit, the amount is immediately deposited in a suspended account on behalf of the purchaser, while foreign exchange made available on the basis of cash against documents is transferred to the purchaser immediately. Since October 1993, commercial banks have been free to transact on their own account and with holders of foreign-currency-denominated accounts ("account to account" transfers). Commer- cial banks do not bear any exchange risk for any foreign exchange transaction. In May 1995, the Bank of Sudan issued comprehensive regulations for licensed nonbank foreign exchange dealers; these dealers are registered as joint-stock companies whose activities are limited to conducting foreign exchange transactions in the spot market. Foreign exchange bureaus began to operate in September 1995 and numbered 21 by mid-November 1995. ]The Sudanese pound (LSd) also circulates and has a fixed rela- tionship to the Sudanese dinar (Sd) of LSd 10 per Sd 1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan with the assistance of the authorized dealers, that is, commercial and specialized banks as well as nonbanks acting as exchange houses. Commercial banks and specialized banks may effect payments from their foreign exchange accounts without verifi- cation by the Bank of Sudan in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Bank of Sudan. Autho- rized banks are prohibited from conducting foreign exchange transactions with same public bodies and from disposing of balances in foreign currency accounts held by them; other public bodies includ- ing research centers are allowed to transact in for- eign exchange freely through their accounts held with domestic banks. Commercial banks are respon- sible for verifying that exports and imports under the trade protocol with Egypt are in accordance with licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade, although this agreement is essentially dormant. The issuance of commercial certificates is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply. The Bank of Sudan has the authority to request any information or details from authorized banks. All exporters and importers are required to register with the Ministry of Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries—except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agree- ment —and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free foreign currency account or special foreign cur- rency account, while receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Sudanese resident individuals and legal entities, with the exception of the Government, public insti- tutions, and public sector enterprises are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts. Free 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 449 accounts may be credited with any means of pay- ment without restriction, other than a customs dec- laration for cash deposits. Withdrawals from free accounts may be used (1) to make transfers abroad; (2) to make transfers to other free accounts; (3) to purchase domestic currency; (4) to make payments in foreign exchange to domestic institutions autho- rized to sell goods and services for foreign exchange; (5) to finance imports; and (6) to withdraw funds when presenting "a personal withdrawal form" stat- ing the purpose of the transaction, such as payments to domestic institutions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign exchange, travel expenses, sell- ing to authorized foreign exchange dealers, recredit- ing the remaining amount to the same account during the one-month period from the date of issue while the form remains valid. The following are allowed to open special accounts with authorized banks in foreign and local currency: diplomatic, foreign, international, and regional missions and organizations; foreign chari- ties and aid organizations; foreign companies, for- eign contractors, and the foreign personnel of these organizations. Special foreign exchange accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad. Special foreign currency accounts may be debited for trans- fers abroad, to finance foreign travel, to purchase local currency in order to finance local payments, to make foreign currency payments to local institutions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign cur- rency, and to finance imports. Withdrawals can be made for the purpose of travel by the account holder or his or her family, and local payments in Sudanese pounds, requiring conversion to Sudanese currency at the commercial bank rate. Airline companies are allowed to open foreign currency accounts without approval from the Bank of Sudan. These accounts may be credited with pay- ments by their passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import licenses are not required, except for goods imported through bilateral and preferential trade arrange- ments. All applications for the importation of goods (except crude oil and petroleum products) not included on the negative list must be accompanied by the following: (1) a pro forma invoice; (2) a valid commercial registration certificate (issued annually by the Ministry of Commerce) that verifies that the importer is a trader; (3) a valid tax clearance certifi- cate; and (4) the written consent of the authorized bodies for certain categories of goods such as drugs, medical tools, and equipment (Ministry of Health); veterinary medicines and equipment (Ministry of Agriculture and Veterinary Resources); food (Minis- try of Health); seeds (Ministry of Agriculture); ammunition and explosives (Ministry of Interior); airport equipment (Civil Aviation Security); commu- nications —telephone, facsimile, and telex—equip- ment (Security Telecommunication Corporation); insecticides and fertilizer (Ministry of Agriculture); inputs used by the chicken and dairy industries (Ministry of Agriculture and Veterinary Resources); irrigation pumps (Ministry of Irrigation); and agri- cultural sprayers (Ministry of Agriculture). Since January 3, 1995, the negative list covers imports prohibited for reasons of religion, public health, and national security. Foreign exchange dealers are authorized to sell foreign exchange to finance all imports (except those on the negative list) irrespective of their final use. Authorized banks are also allowed to provide import credit facilities for imports of specified capi- tal goods by means of sight credit or documents against acceptance, provided that maturity is no less than two years and repayments do not begin until one year af ter the arrival of the goods.2 Authorized banks are free to obtain from importers a deposit of any amount in foreign currency at least one month before the importers receive the shipping docu- ments; the remaining foreign exchange may be pro- vided when the shipping documents are received. Commercial banks are authorized to finance imports of capital goods (provided that the credit agreement allows a grace period of at least one year) and of wheat and flour. Insurance for imports must normally be taken out with local companies. Imports financed at the com- mercial bank rate, including those financed through the opening of letters of credit, could be subject to an advance deposit of up to the full c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to transfer up to 50 percent of net salaries of foreign consultants, pro- vided that the following documents are submitted: evidence of work permit, certificate showing net basic salary, and certificate showing no tax obliga- tion. On this basis, up to 50 percent of net salaries may be remitted abroad. There are no restrictions on other invisible payments, but a limit of $5,000 2These goods include agricultural equipment, such as tractors and harvesters; all means of transportation, excluding sedans; mining equipment; all kinds of industrial and service equipment; and road, irrigation, building, and construction equipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 SUDAN applies to banknotes that can be taken out of the country. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, as is the expor- tation of hides, skins, charcoal, and firewood.3 Export licenses are not required for any category of exports (except for exports under bilateral protocol arrangements and on account of barter trade). How- ever, exporters must comply with administrative procedures designed to ensure full repatriation and surrender of foreign exchange export proceeds, with exceptions rated below export contracts subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce. To prevent underinvoicing, the Board of Exported Commodi- ties enforces a set of minimum export prices, which are updated periorically. In addition, the Ministry of Commerce would normally deny export permits for any commodities subject to export prohibition and to exporters not in compliance with repatriation and surrender requirements in earlier export activities. Most export proceeds must be repatriated and sold to the domestic banking system within 45 days of the date of the bill of lading. Exporters of winter cotton, cattle and meat, sunflower seeds, fruits and vegetables, and manufactured goods are allowed to retain 50 percent of their export proceeds in foreign currency. Fifty percent of all proceeds surrendered to the account of the Bank of Sudan opened with the commercial banks is bought by the Bank of Sudan at the commercial bank rate. Export taxes are levied on all categories of goods (except exports under bilateral protocol arrange- ments and under barter trade). The tax is collected by customs and deposited in its account at the Bank of Sudan. The applicable tax rates are 10 percent on cotton and gum arabic, and 5 percent on other exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad are required to remit annually to domestic residents a minimum amount of foreign exchange, ranging from $300 (for ordinary workers, clerical and medical assistants, and soldiers) to $800-$5,000 (for professors, physi- cians, specialists in international organizations, and businessmen).4 Exemptions are provided, however, 3The prohibition on exports of hides and skins is aimed at en- couraging local processing. From Janua ry 16, 1994, the prohibi- tion was extended to include reptile skins. On August 1, 1994, reptile skins were again exempted from this prohibition on ex- ports, until Janua ry 18,1995. 4These minimum remittances are in addition to a tax payable when obtaining a passport. for Sudanese nationals, other than employees of international organizations, working in a number of countries. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in foreign currencies without restriction and may export any amount of Sudanese currency. Residents and non- residents entering Sudan must declare their hold- ings of foreign currency and within three months either deposit the foreign exchange in a foreign cur- rency account, sell it to an authorized dealer against local currency, or retransfer it abroad. Commercial banks are prohibited from accepting foreign curren- cies without valid declaration forms. Shipping agencies are permitted to accept foreign currency in payment for any services; however, they are required to sell all the foreign currency proceeds to authorized banks on the day following their receipt. Sales of tickets and freight services in foreign cur- rencies by airline companies in Sudan are restricted to (1) foreign tourists and businessmen; (2) foreign- ers working with diplomatic missions and organiza- tions and international, regional, and national organizations; (3) foreigners employed by foreign relief, charitable, and religious organizations; and (4) foreigners working with foreign companies and branches of companies operating in the fields of con- tracting, investment, and prospecting for petroleum and minerals. Airline companies are allowed to receive payments for tickets and freight services in foreign currency on condition- that payments are made in the form of deposits to their foreign cur- rency accounts. Sales in foreign exchange deposited in the foreign currency accounts must be remitted to the company's head office accompanied by a certifi- cate issued by the Civil Aviation Authority. Capital Foreign direct investments are permitted in accor- dance with existing laws and regulations. Repatriation of share capital and amortization payments on loans to nonresidents is subject to certi- fication from the Bank of Sudan regarding the origi- nal value of the foreign share in capital and loans. Repatriation of share capital and amortization pay- ments on loans to nonresidents is subject to certifica- tion from the Investment Public Corporation regarding the original value of the foreign share in capital and loans. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 451 sell domestically produced gold in Sudan. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Com- merce, Cooperation, and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing, and the full value of the gold pro- cessed must be kept in an escrow account that is operated in accordance with the corresponding agreement between the Government and the export- ing company. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 20. The spread between commercial banks' buying and selling rates was changed from LSd 7 per U.S. dollar to 1.5 percent of each bank's buying price. March 21. The commercial banks' surrender requirement to the Bank of Sudan was reduced from 65 percent to 50 percent; however, the Bank of Sudan continued to purchase 20 percent of the banks' for- eign exchange proceeds at its reference rate. The commercial banks were required to report the use of the 50 percent allocated to them, indicating the type of commodity imported, the name of the importer, etc. May 17. The Bank of Sudan issued comprehensive regulations for nonbank foreign exchange dealers. August 5. The Bank of Sudan declared that receipts from the purchase and sale of foreign currency from "currency exchange companies" could be used for several purposes in addition to opening an unre- stricted account in the name of the receipt holder. September 27. All foreign exchange proceeds of commercial banks started to be sold to the Bank of Sudan at the corresponding commercial banks' sell- ing rate plus LSd 3. September 27. Commercial banks were authorized to transact foreign exchange for their own account with holders of foreign currency accounts. (This effectively legalized the former parallel market.) September 27. All authorized dealers, banks and nonbanks, were allowed to set their buying and sell- ing exchange rates freely without any specific mar- gin limits. Imports and Import Payments January 3. Passenger cars and sugar were elimi- nated from the negative import list. Exports and Export Proceeds May 17. Exporters of cattle, meat, winter cotton, sunflower seeds, vegetables and fruits, and indus- trial goods were allowed to retain 50 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds in foreign currency. The rest must be sold to commercial banks, with half of this amount to be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan. September 27. Exporters were permitted to sell to any commercial bank that portion of export pro- ceeds not subject to the surrender requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guil- der. Exchange rates are freely determined on the basis of demand and supply in the market. Commer- cial banks and licensed foreign exchange houses may trade foreign exchange with customers, among themselves, or with the Central Bank of Suriname on a freely negotiable basis. The Central Bank also trades foreign exchange with the Government but not with importers. The Central Bank determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, which is based on the weighted-average rate of com- mercial bank transactions over the last five days. Official transactions include payments on the Gov- ernment's external debt and imports, transfers of funds to embassies abroad, and payments to inter- national organizations. On December 31, 1995, the exchange rate was Sf 407 per US$1. Commercial banks charge commissions of 2 percent on sales of foreign exchange and 9.25 per- cent on transfers. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Suriname accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 29,1978. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are subject to licensing, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other domes- tic assets. Import licenses are granted by the Minis- try of Trade and Industry.1 In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must also be approved by the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license that serves as a general authorization for payment); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Commis- sion (FEC). External payments, other than for the importation of goods, require a license from the FEC. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for invisible payments not requiring an exchange license, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange unless the remitter submits an exchange license. Exports also require a license from the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Commercial banks may accept free of license those inward trans- fers of foreign exchange that do not result from bor- rowing abroad; foreign loans must be approved by the FEC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suri- name and foreign countries are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies.2 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suri- name guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn and, except for cer- tain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open non- resident accounts on behalf of nonresidents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pen- sions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname banknotes mailed from abroad; nonresident foreign currency accounts may not be credited with Surinamese tender. Resident nonbanks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with domestic and foreign banks and to hold foreign securities, provided that the However, two specified mining companies do not need li- censes for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Suriname, provided that they pay for imports from their own foreign exchange resources. 2Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Barbados dollars, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 453 funds have not been acquired from sales of real estate in Suriname or from exports. Balances in for- eign currency accounts and holdings of foreign assets may be used freely, except for travel; use of these accounts and foreign assets for travel is limited to Sf 1,500 a person a year. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Imports of some commodities are prohibited,3 and imports subject to quotas include kwie kwie fish; milk powder; potatoes; onions; garlic; fruits and nuts (other than citrus, bananas, plantains, and coco- nuts); decaffeinated coffee; peanuts; baby food; tomato paste; certain preserved vegetables; matches; furnishings; ready-made clothing; and furniture (excluding those for business establishments, such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). The import license serves as a general authoriza- tion for payment. In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the Central Bank. Import licenses are valid for six •months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5 percent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. A statistical fee of 2.0 percent is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports of bauxite companies, and 0.5 of the c.i.f. value of other imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; application for a license must be submitted to the FEC at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Authorized banks and the Gen- eral Post Office have authority to provide foreign 3The prohibition applies to imports of pigs (excluding those for breeding); chicken, duck, turkey, and pork meat; fish (excluding kwie kwie fish and smoked herring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, frozen, salted, dried, or precooked); vegetables (excluding potatoes, onions, and garlic); edible roots and tubers; citrus fruits; bananas; plantains; coconuts; green and roasted coffee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (excluding baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet), aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup; noo- dles and macaroni; jam, jelly, and marmalade (excluding those for diabetics); peanut butter; syrups and concentrates for nonalco- holic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics); firewood and other nonprocessed wood, rail- road ties, shingles, wooden structures for construction, wooden tiles and panels, wooden tools, handles, and coat hangers; men's and boys' shoes (excluding rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohib- ited for reasons of public policy or health. exchange up to Sf 150 a month for each item in con- nection with certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth) as well as for advertising expenses and pay- ment for books. The requirement of a license for remittances for the support of family members abroad was eliminated in June 1993. Travel allowances for residents are subject to licensing and are limited to the equivalent of $1,500 a person a calendar year. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for the amortization of loans or depreciation or direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the FEC for verification. These payments, however, have been suspended. Both res- ident and nonresident travelers may take out Sf 100. The exportating of foreign banknotes by traveling residents is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Trade and Industry. Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by letters of credit opened by buyers abroad. Exporters of bauxite and bananas must surrender foreign exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate.4 Other exporters must surrender their proceeds to autho- rized commercial banks and are allowed to buy back up to 85 percent of the amount surrendered. The Ministry of Trade and Industry ascertains with the relevant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance with world market prices. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only on the advice of the Director of Agri- culture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is prohibited and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain export com- panies have received special permission from the FEC to maintain current accounts in foreign cur- rency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Exports of processed and semipro- cessed wood are subject to a tax of 100 percent of the f.o.b. value. Exports of bauxite are subject to a statis- tical fee of 2.0 percent of their f.o.b. value, and other 4Bauxite companies are not subject to export surrender require- ments but must sell foreign exchange to the Central Bank to pay for their local expenditures. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 SURINAME exports are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5 percent of their f.o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in unlimited foreign currency and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency. Travelers must declare all domestic and foreign currency in their possession on entry. The amount that nonresidents may take out of the country in foreign currency must be smaller than the amount they brought in and declared on entry. Capital The transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents, or the liquidation of, fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enter- prise, and the transfer of profits and foreign exchange (including loans) imported by a nonresi- dent entrepreneur for the company's use are tempo- rarily suspended. This decision covers investments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31,1953. The FEC may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from the estate of a deceased per- son, up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates val- ued at more than Sf 10,000, further annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period of not more than ten years. The Commission may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repa- triating family may be permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his or her total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued during the period of residence. If his or her Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Trans- fers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be authorized under exceptional circumstances. Out- ward transfers for these purposes have been tempo- rarily reduced. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries5 Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as nego- tiable by the FEC. Transfers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese inter- ests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires the prior approval of the FEC. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks are permitted to place a part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The Central Bank, the authorized banks, and the correspondent banks have made an arrangement whereby the Cen- tral Bank guarantees the letters of credit issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a minimum level.6 The authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corresponding to bal- ances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Nonbank residents are allowed to hold foreign exchange; but for exchange transactions exceeding Sf 10,000, they must report to the bank the source of foreign exchange. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank and Grassalco). Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the FEC by sale to the Central Bank. The authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic pur- poses; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet the demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins with face values of Sf 100, Sf 200, and Sf 250 are legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among them- selves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jew- elry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the FEC; licenses 5Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Neth- erlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. 6This arrangement applies to the nationally controlled Land- bouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, but not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 455 are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration and pro- vided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a sta- tistical fee of 0.5 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1995 Exports and Export Proceeds December 31. Rice export proceeds may be surren- dered to commercial banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural Emalangeni), which is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland are based on the exchange rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1995, the closing buying and selling rates were E 3.6450 and E 3.6465, respectively, per $1. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, deutsche mark, French franc, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quota- tions for these currencies against the U.S. dollar, and for the European currency unit (ECU). The Central Bank of Swaziland also quotes rates for the currencies of the member states of the Prefer- ential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), based on their relationship with the SDR as reported by the PTA clearinghouse. These currencies include the Kenya shilling, the Malawi kwacha, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank of Swaziland permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. Commercial banks are generally able to meet demands for forward sales of foreign currency against emalangeni. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Swaziland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on December 11,1989. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland is part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA), a single exchange control territory compris- ing Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, payments are not con- trolled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market in accordance with the terms and conditions ruling in that market. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Swaziland is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and South Africa, and no import restric- tions are imposed on goods originating in any coun- try of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are licensed in conformity with specific import regulations. Import licenses granted in Swa- ziland entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be used, but the Swazi authorities are responsible for controlling import licenses and payments procedures. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to any one member of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to ensure that export proceeds are repatriated in the pre- scribed manner and within the stipulated period. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current pay- ments up to established limits is delegated to autho- rized dealers. The basic exchange allowances for tourist travel are E 25,000 for each adult and E 12,500 for each child, a year. For business travel, the basic allowance is E 2,000 for each person a day, not to exceed E 38,000 a year. Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of bona fide need. Residents traveling to the member countries of the PTA may use traveler's checks denominated in the units of account of the PTA (UAPTAs). The allowance for payment of medical costs abroad is E 4,000 a year. Students undergoing full time courses outside the CMA may be allowed foreign exchange to cover the cost of board and lodging, books, and other expenses up to a maximum of E 3,500 a month for single persons and E 8,000 for married persons accompanied by their spouse. An additional E 6,000 a year for single persons, and up to E 12,000 a year 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 457 for those accompanied by their spouse may be allowed to cover traveling expenses. To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking before departure. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the Central Bank of Swaziland. Capital All inward capital transfers require the prior approval of the Central Bank of Swaziland and must be properly documented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, prof- its, and other income. No person may borrow for- eign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 10. As South Africa abolished the financial rand system and unified the exchange rate for the rand, investments in Swaziland through the finan- cial rand system could no longer be undertaken. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. The Swedish authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and for- ward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange mar- ket. The Sveriges Riksbank, however, has the discre- tionary power to intervene in the exchange market. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Skr 6.6375 and Skr 6.6975, respectively, per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks and residents any foreign currency on a spot or forward basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may also purchase (sell) foreign currencies, spot or for- ward, from (to) foreign banks and other nonresi- dents against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited (debited) to a krona account. Also, currency option contracts may be concluded freely with both residents and nonresidents. For prudential purposes, net foreign exchange positions (spot, forward, options) in individual for- eign currencies and on the total net position in all foreign currencies are subject to limits. The limit for each foreign currency and for the total net position is equal to 10 percent of a bank's capital base. For a bank that is a recognized market maker, the limit is equal to 15 percent of its capital base. Banks may grant overdrafts to nonresidents and may incur for- eign exchange net liabilities for which the same lim- its apply. This enables the banks to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents for on-lending to foreign banks, to other nonresidents, or to residents. Lend- ing abroad in kronor is also freely permitted. Swed- ish banks may, while observing their limits on net foreign exchange holdings, borrow abroad freely and sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the mar- ket. A limit also exists on a bank's total net positions calculated as the sum of all liability positions. This limit is equal to 20 percent of the bank's capital base and to 30 percent for recognized market makers. Sweden accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 15,1961. Administration of Control licenses are issued by the National Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Market Board. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Sweden notified the Fund on August 7, 1992, that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro). These restrictions were extended on Sep- tember 23, 1994, to include areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces.1 Certain restrictions were imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Angola, according to UN Security Council Resolution No. 748 (1992) of March 31,1992, and UN Security Council Resolution No. 864 (1993) of September 15, 1993, respectively. Financial transactions with Iraq are prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990) and other relevant UN resolutions. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through an external krona account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts External krona accounts may be held by nonresi- dents domiciled abroad, including persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for payments and transfers and may be converted int@ any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments As a result of Sweden's membership in the Euro- pean Union (EU) as of January 1,1995, import of tex- tiles and clothing from more than 50 countries are subject to restrictions or licensing for surveillance purposes. Agricultural and fishery products are also subject to import licensing. All current and capital transactions are free from exchange control. When required, import and export Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro) and Bosnia and Herzegovina were lifted on Febru- ary 26,1996. 458 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 459 Imports of most iron and steel products from all countries outside the EU, other than countries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) or coun- tries that are parties to the Agreement on the Euro- pean Economic Area (EEA), are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Some iron and steel products from Russia, Ukraine, and Kazakstan are also subject to restrictions. Imports from China of certain goods such as shoes, porcelain, and toys, are subject to restrictions. Other goods such as fireworks, working gloves, bicycles, and brushes, are subject to licensing for sur- veillance purposes. With a few exceptions, imports from Iraq and from areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzego- vina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces are prohibited. Payments for imports may be made freely. Import- ers are also permitted to accept foreign suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made by residents in favor of nonresidents without limit or restriction. Travelers may export any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes or any other means of payment. While abroad, residents may open accounts, pro- vided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish National Tax Board for tax control and to the Riks- bank for statistical purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, exports to Iraq and to areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bos- nian Serb forces are prohibited. Some exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Angola are prohibited. Proceeds from exports of goods may be sold for kro- nor or kept in a foreign currency account in Sweden and used by the holder to make payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may import any amount of domestic and foreign bank- notes or any other means of payment. Capital All capital transactions are free from restriction. For tax control and statistical purposes, however, residents depositing funds in foreign bank accounts or transacting through such an account must report the amount to the Swedish National Tax Board and to the Riksbank. Transactions in securities may be carried out freely. Gold There are no special regulations on trading in gold. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control December 31. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were suspended. Imports and Import Payments January 1. As a result of joining the EU, the import regime was changed; restriction and /or licensing for surveillance purposes on imports of textiles and clothing, iron and steel products, and on certain imports from China (shoes, porcelain, and toys) were introduced. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced on an EU-wide basis during 1995.) Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. As a result of joining the EU, the export regime was changed. January 1. The licensing requirements on exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and on exports of scrap metal were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the National Bank reserves the right to intervene if and when circumstances warrant. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1995, the midpoint market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U.S. dollar was Sw F 1.1520 per $1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzer- land at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate foreign exchange contracts with banks in all currencies, in respect of both commercial and financial transactions. No officially fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward exchange con- tracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Under the Export Risk Guarantee System, export receipts, excluding exchange rate risks, may be insured by the Government under certain conditions. Switzerland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 29,1992. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of importation and exportation, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of monetary policy measures, natural persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as resi- dents, as are juridical persons, including banks. However, this rule does not apply to the acquisition of Swiss real estate. Liechtenstein is considered a for- eign country for purposes of banking supervision. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council, acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy, the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, or the Federal Department of Finance. The National Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of cur- rency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Switzerland notified the Fund that, in accor- dance with the relevant UN Security Council resolu- tions, certain payments restrictions were imposed with respect to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Iraq, and regions in Bosnia under Serbian control. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro) were suspended in November 1995. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of alcohol, but- ter, and wheat grain is a partial state monopoly. The most important products subject to licensing, irre- spective of their origin, are certain agricultural prod- ucts. The purpose of the licensing requirements is to administer World Trade Organization-based tariff rate quotas. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The exportation of Swiss and foreign banknotes is unrestricted. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation (including the re-exportation) of some goods, including weapons and dual-use equipment for the production of conventional weap- ons or weapons of mass destruction, is controlled through individual licenses. This export-licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate semiofficial or private organizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The importation of Swiss and foreign banknotes is unrestricted. Capital Transfers of capital may be made without formal- ity. Foreign and domestic bond issues denominated 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 461 in Swiss francs must be reported to the National Bank. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. In case of any disturbances in the capital markets, the fed- eral Government may introduce a permit require- ment for certain outward capital transfers (e.g., bond issues). Selected banks and finance companies are required to report their positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and for- ward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or residing abroad require approval by the canton in which the property is situated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the federal Government. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs duty. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control November 1. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were suspended. Capital February 1. The revised banking law abolished the former permit requirement for foreign bond issues exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more, and introduced instead a reporting requirement for foreign and domestic bond issues. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The exchange rate system consists of the following four rates: (1) the official rate of LS 11.20/11.25 per $1 applies to some govern- ment transactions and to repayment of loans and interests arising from bilateral payments agreements and banking arrangements; (2) the rate of LS 22.95/ 23.00 per $1 applies as an accounting rate to public sector exports of petroleum and some agricultural products, imports of essential subsidized commodi- ties and invisibles, and repayment of loans and interests; (3) the "rate in neighboring countries" of LS 42.43 per $1 applies to all public and private cap- ital inflows, receipts from 25 percent of export pro- ceeds surrendered by the private sector and that part of the 75 percent of export proceeds retained by pri- vate sector exporters not used to finance their own imports or those of others, to travel allowances, tourism and medical expenses, student allowances, remittances abroad and payments by the public sec- tor approved by the Committee for Foreign Exchange, and for some government transactions and customs valuation of some imports.1 Since Octo- ber 1995, the rate in neighboring countries has been applied to all hotel transactions; and (4) the "govern- ment fee rate" (LS 42.95/43.00 per $1), which applies to a number of fees, including those on transit and port services, and as an accounting rate for some government transactions as well as for customs val- uation of some imports. In addition to the above rates, there is also the pro- motion rate of LS 20.22 per $1, which is used only for payments of allowances to students who started overseas study before January 1,1991. There is also a neighboring countries free market rate that stood at LS 50.20 per $1 on December 31, 1995, and an "export proceeds" market in which a market- determined rate applies to a number of newly per- mitted goods that may be imported only with for- eign exchange earned through exports; in December 1995, the exchange rate in this market stood at LS 54.00 per $1. Exporters who do not use all of their export earnings to import goods may sell their retained foreign exchange earnings to importers in this market. Exchange rates between the Syrian pound and other major currencies are set on the basis of the exchange rate between the Syrian pound and the U.S. dollar in relation to the exchange rates of the currencies concerned in the international markets. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is determined by the Ministry of Economy and For- eign Trade. Under an agreement between the Cen- tral Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transac- tions by the Exchange Office. Only the Central Bank and the Commercial Bank of Syria may deal in foreign exchange. The Commercial Bank of Syria opens letters of credit and accepts bills for collec- tion without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies that can be obtained for exports. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to, and receipts from, Israel are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral pay- ments agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Russia, and Sri Lanka; however, the agreements with Russia and Sri Lanka are inoperative, and pay- ments for imports from the Islamic Republic of Iran may also be made in convertible currencies. ]In 1994, the "airline rate/' which applies to purchases of air- line tickets by nonresidents and to transfers abroad by airline companies, was adjusted to LS 42/43 per $1 and was effectively merged with the "rate in neighboring countries/' Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 463 to the authorized banks and with other receipts; they may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Non- residents (individuals and corporations) may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at the Commercial Bank of Syria for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restric- tion, or used to pay for authorized imports. Tempo- rary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement cur- rencies, through payment conventions, or by diplo- matic and UN missions and their staffs. Diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs are allowed to exchange all their transfers to the Syrian Arab Republic at the rate in neighboring countries. The debiting for expenditures in the Syrian Arab Repub- lic and abroad is free. Residents not involved in export activities and wishing to open foreign currency accounts are required to present written evidence that they have sources of income from abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel are prohibited. Many basic commodities (including paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain private sector importers. Agencies having the sole authority to import may be required to import cer- tain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. The list of items that the private sector is permitted to import includes certain agricul- tural goods, industrial goods, and raw materials. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are pro- hibited, with certain exceptions. In principle, imports must come directly from the country of ori- gin, without the intervention of any foreign firm. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Imports from the Syrian free zones are allowed for certain industrial goods and for goods with a free-zone value added of at least 40 percent. All imports valued at more than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licensing.2 The 2In accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement, cer- tain imports from Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are ex- empted from the licensing requirement; in these cases, an authorization to import is granted upon written request. foreign exchange requirements of the state trading agencies are met from the annual foreign exchange budget; these agencies automatically receive import licenses upon submission of documentation of their import requirements. A fee ranging from LS 25 to LS 200 is charged upon issuing the import license. Additionally, an import surcharge of 2 percent is charged on all imports; government imports and imports of certain essential items (including raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products) are exempted. Imports for customs duty purposes are valued at the official exchange rate except for items subject to duty at the rate of 75 percent or higher. Import tar iffs range from zero to 200 percent, and all the previous special levies on imports have been replaced by a unified import surcharge ranging from 6 percent to 35 percent.3 Private importers are autho- rized to import products specified on the permitted list by opening letters of credit at the Commercial Bank of Syria. However, when foreign exchange is not made available, private sector imports must be financed with the importers' own resources through external credit arrangements, foreign currency deposits maintained in the Syrian Arab Republic by nonresidents, the importers' own foreign exchange deposited in the Commercial Bank of Syria under the export proceeds retention regulations, or foreign exchange purchased from other private or mixed sector enterprises through the intermediary of the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate in neighboring countries. Imports of a number of goods are restricted to specific methods of financing. For example, a number of imports may be imported using only foreign exchange generated through exports. A non-interest-bearing advance import deposit for public sector imports is required for an amount equal to 100 percent of the value of the imports. These deposits, which are held for six months, range from 10 percent to 40 percent of the value of imports. For several categories of goods, an advance import deposit equal to 100 percent of the value of the import, plus a 3 percent fee, is required. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the rate in neighboring countries. 3The simple and weighted average (using 1987 import values as weights) of basic tar iffs are 19.9 percent and 10.4 percent, re- spectively. The simple and weighted average of all import duties (defined as the sum of the basic tariffs, unified surcharges, and the 2 percent import license fee) are 35 percent and 22.8 percent, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange, up to a limit of $2,000 a trip, to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Of this amount, up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 a trip may be purchased at the rate in neighboring countries for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Leba- non) and up to the equivalent of LS 7,500 a trip for travel to non-Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for a foreign exchange travel allowance but may take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip in Syrian banknotes. With this excep- tion, Syrian banknotes may not be taken out of the country. For children 10 years old or younger, the allowances are 50 percent of these amounts. Workers on secondment to a foreign country may take with them the entire amount of the allocations on produc- ing proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad; otherwise they may take with them only foreign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above-mentioned allocations. For travel to countries with which payments agreements are maintained, 50 percent of the travel allocation must be handled through the clearing account con- cerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 600 a person if traveling to Arab countries and LS 1,500 a person for other destina- tions. An airport stamp tax of LS 200 is added to this tax. Fixed allocations are maintained for other transac- tions in invisibles. A maximum of 60 percent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic, and 50 per- cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplo- matic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic may be transferred. All other transactions require prior approval from the Exchange Office, with the exception of embassies and international organizations; such entities may convert all their transfers at the rate in neighboring countries. The allowance for education abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Higher Educa- tion. The transfer of funds abroad for family mainte- nance is limited to LS 250 for each transfer and is effected upon presentation of proof of need. The allowance for medical treatment must be authorized by the Ministry of Health. Remittances of profits from investment must be authorized by the Exchange Office upon documentation (for example, a certificate confirming payment of income tax). Profits from projects approved by the Higher Com- mittee for Investment under the new investment law can be repatriated freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cotton yarn, and their derivatives are made by the government orga- nizations dealing in cereals and cotton.4 Petroleum exports are handled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports under bilateral payments agree- ments and of all goods of foreign origin require licensing; no repatriation commitment is required, with the exporter repatriating and surrendering the proceeds to the Commercial Bank of Syria within 45 days of the date of shipment to Lebanon, within three months of the date of export shipment to other Arab countries, and within four months of the date of export shipment to other countries. Public sector enterprises may retain 100 percent of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts with the Commercial Bank of Syria to finance imports on the permitted list; the retained portion of foreign exchange earnings can be depos- ited at the Commercial Bank of Syria in special for- eign currency accounts until import payments are made or foreign exchange is voluntarily sold to the Commercial Bank of Syria. In the case of fruits and vegetables, public and private sector exporters may convert 100 percent of the proceeds at the rate in neighboring countries. Since May 1995, exporters of juice and its concen- trate may retain 100 percent of their export proceeds to finance imports on the permitted list. The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept pre- payments for exports of Syrian products by resi- dents and nonresidents without referring to the Central Bank. Subsidies for exports of ginned cotton from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products have been suspended. A tax ranging from 9 percent to 12 percent ad valorem is charged on the value of exports of agricultural ori- gin, except fruits and vegetables (which are exempt) and cotton (for which the export tax is 12.5 percent of the value of the exports (f.o.b.), less the cost of transportation within the Syrian Arab Republic). Exports of other agricultural commodities are sub- ject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 7 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be sold at the official rate and those from trans- 4The General Organization for Cereals Trade and Production and the General Organization for Cotton Ginning and Marketing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 465 actions by the private sector must be sold at the rate in neighboring countries. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange and Syrian pounds without declaration, if the amount does not exceed $5,000. All Syrian nationals employed by Arab, for- eign, or international organizations within the Syr- ian Arab Republic and paid in full or in part in foreign currencies are required to exchange all such earnings at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the offi- cial exchange rate. With few exceptions, non-Syrians visiting the Syr- ian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. All Syrian employees working abroad are subject to an annual tax of $50-$700, depending on their profession, and are allowed import tax exemptions on luxury items (valued between $500 and $7,000) if the equivalent funds are surrendered at the rate in neighboring countries. Syrian government employees who are on leave and working abroad are required to repatriate and con- vert a minimum of 25 percent of each year's earn- ings received in foreign exchange at the rate in neighboring countries. Capital All capital transfers to and from the Syrian Arab Republic by the public and private sector take place at the rate in neighboring countries. Exports of capi- tal require the approval of the Exchange Office. The Syrian Arab Republic provides special facili- ties for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of A rab states, including a seven-year tax exemption from all taxes in the tourism and agricultural industries. Under Investment Law No. 10, projects with minimum fixed assets of LS 10 million approved by the Government benefit from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations, including exemption from customs duties of imports of required machinery, equip- ment, and vehicles. Mixed companies with at least 25 percent public participation are exempted from all taxes for seven years and private companies are exempted for five years; exemption periods may be extended by an additional two years if the com- pany exports at least 50 percent of its output. Inves- tors are permitted to hold foreign exchange accounts with the Commercial Bank of Syria to finance convertible currency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 75 percent of foreign currency exports. Funds from such accounts may be provided on demand and may be used for the com- pensation of foreign s ta f f. Investors are free to repa- triate foreign exchange capital a f ter five years from the date of investment. Capital may be repatriated a f ter six months if the project su f fe rs f rom events beyond the control of the investor. All profits may be transferred freely. Foreign s taff are entitled to transfer abroad 60 percent of salaries and 100 per- cent of severance pay. The Syrian Arab Republic has investment guaran- tee agreements with France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Non- residents and foreign nationals may acquire immov- able property in the Syrian Arab Republic only a f ter presenting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property at an authorized local bank. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell manufac- tured gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. Domestic transactions in manufactured gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are sub- ject to export licensing. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Exports of gold previously imported by nonresi- dents out of their resources abroad are subject to a repatriation commitment covering the cost of manu- facturing and the profit earned. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement October 23. The exchange rates were unified for all hotel transactions at the rate in neighboring countries. Imports and Import Payments April 10. The following products were removed from the negative import list: ceramics, hens, milk and milk products, plastic material, oxygen equip- ment, cleaning material, glass, and certain trucks. These products may now be imported using export proceeds. Exports and Export Proceeds May 27. Decree No. 7 extended Decree No. 2315 (1990) applying to exports of juice and its concen- trates. According to Decree No. 2315, exporters may retain 100 percent of their export proceeds to finance imports on the permitted list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 2. The Central Bank of Syria and the Com- mercial Bank of Syria were allowed to buy foreign currency for the public sector export of petroleum at the rate of LS 22.95 per $1 and to sell foreign cur- rency for the import of essential subsidized com- modities and repayment of loans and interests at the rate of LS 23.00 per $1. January 8. The Commercial Bank of Syria was allowed to buy foreign currency from grants at the rate in neighboring countries. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts January 8. Diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs were allowed to exchange all their transfers to the Syrian Arab Republic at the rate in neighboring countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN (Position as of March 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tajikistan is the Tajik Ruble, which was introduced on May 10, 1995, replacing the post-1993 Russian rubles, which are now treated as foreign currency.1 The exchange rate system con- sists of three rates: the official accounting exchange rate based on the outcome of the foreign exchange auctions at the Tajik Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange (TICEX); the buying and selling rates at the official exchange bureaus operated by the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan; and the parallel (curb) market rate. The TICEX, which was established by the National Bank and the major commercial banks, holds weekly auctions for the sale of U.S. dollars. However, due primarily to the lack of a steady supply of foreign exchange to the TICEX, the auctions have been frequently halted. After August 2,1995, only two auctions took place in 1995, one in mid-September and another in late- November, in which the amounts of sales were very small and only in cash. The National Bank holds Tajikistan's official for- eign exchange reserves and acts as an agent for the Government in connection with significant govern- ment transactions in the foreign exchange market. However, government ministries and agencies con- tinue to hold foreign exchange accounts with the banking system in which working balances are maintained for small day-to-day requirements. The principal exchange rate in use in Tajikistan is that determined in the in terbank market. Transac- tions in the interbank market take place via weekly auctions and daily transactions among banks or between banks and enterprises. Since December 1995, enterprises have been permitted to partici- pate directly (as well as indirectly via their banks) in the interbank auctions. Once a week, the National Bank quotes an official representative exchange rate for the Tajik ruble based on the mid- point of buying and selling rates for the Tajik ruble against the U.S. dollar in the TICEX. In the event that an auction does not take place, the National Bank's official rate is set at the average of commer- cial banks' exchange rates for transactions in the interbank market during the previous week, as 1 Since J anu a ry 8, 1994, post-1993 Russian rubles have been in circulation only in cash form, and in very small denominations; other pre-1993 Russian rubles remain frozen in bank accounts. reported by the banks to the National Bank. The official exchange rate is used for revaluation of the National Bank's foreign currency balances, for the calculation of customs duties, and for most of the National Bank's foreign exchange transactions. Prior to February 1996, there was a surrender requirement of 30 percent of foreign currency export receipts to the National Bank. The official rate was used for the conversion of those receipts. On February 24, 1996, the surrender requirement was abolished and replaced with a repatriation requirement. In March 1996, the average TICEX rate was 283 Tajik rubles per U.S. dollar. A freely negotiated market exchange rate may also emerge outside the auction from transactions among authorized commercial banks and /or between banks and enterprises. Fifteen commercial banks are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. However, only three or four banks in addition to the National Bank are active. With the exception of the Vneshekonombank, most banks have only a hand ful of transactions each week. Authorized banks and the National Bank obtain foreign exchange, inter alia, by purchasing repatriated for- eign exchange earnings from exporters. Authorized bank holdings of foreign exchange may be sold to customers to pay for imports of goods and services with the appropriate documentation. The National Bank mandates a maximum service commission or margin of 10 percent between commercial bank buying and selling rates. Exchange rates of autho- rized banks are published weekly in the business press. A retail foreign exchange market operates through foreign exchange bureaus, which are owned by authorized banks. Individuals may make purchases and sales in this market without limit. In addition, an informal parallel market in foreign exchange exists. Although, technically, parallel market transactions are illegal, small transactions are tolerated by the authorities. The parallel market exchange rate was within 2 percent of the official rate dur ing March 1996. Commercial banks moni- tor movements in the parallel market and TICEX rates when setting their own rates. There are no taxes on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, except that banks must pay tax equal to the full amount of any commission or margin in excess of 10 percent. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 TAJIKISTAN Administration of Control Regulations concerning the availability and use of the Tajik ruble are set out in the Law on Foreign Cur- rency Control of May 10,1995. The Finance Ministry and the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Economic Relations have responsibility for financial relations between Tajikistan and other countries. The Vneshekonombank acts as the agent of the Finance Ministry and the depository of most day-to-day gov- ernmental accounts, while the official foreign exchange reserves are held at the National Bank. The National Bank has licensed the 15 commercial banks that are foreign exchange traders and collects infor- mation on the foreign currency transactions of these banks. Commercial banks are allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions, subject to the limitation that individual and overall net positions do not exceed 5 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of unimpaired capital. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Residents of Tajikistan may make and receive pay- ments and transfers in any convertible currency as well as in Tajik rubles, but major transactions are authorized and monitored by the National Bank. Since May 1995, residents and nonresidents are no longer permitted to use foreign exchange for domes- tic transactions, except for special cases allowed by the authorities. Commercial transactions with non- resident entities from all other countries must take place via correspondent accounts maintained either by authorized commercial banks or by the National Bank. The Vneshekonombank has the most active correspondent accounts with banks abroad. The National Bank has correspondent accounts with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, but these accounts are effectively inoperative. While in the past the major- ity of trade transactions were arranged on a barter basis, in November 1995, the Government passed a resolution prohibiting new barter trade contracts, with the exception of contracts for aluminum. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individuals may open, maintain, and use foreign currency accounts in authorized banks in Tajikistan. Resident enterprises may open foreign currency accounts in Tajikistan if they are registered foreign traders at the Ministry for Foreign Economic Relations. Documentation, including the relevant import contract, is required any time a resident enterprise desires to buy foreign exchange from an authorized bank. Resident individuals or enterprises may also open foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad.2 The transfer of foreign exchange held in domestic accounts to a resident bank account abroad does not require authorization. Nonresident individuals and enterprises can open foreign exchange accounts with authorized domestic banks in Tajikistan. The amounts in such accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the local banks for Tajik rubles. Nonresident enterprises and foreign govern- ments and institutions are also permitted to open Tajik ruble accounts. Inward and outward transfers of Tajik rubles and foreign currency banknotes are regulated by the Customs Committee together with the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank. The physical impor- tation and exportation of foreign currency bank- notes and Tajik ruble banknotes are freely permitted, subject only to declaration of amounts over $500. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free from all restrictions, including tariffs, licenses, monopoly import rights, and quotas, with the following exceptions. The importation of firearms, narcotics, poisons, chemical weapons, and nuclear material is prohibited. Five product catego- ries (certain alcohol products, tobacco products, photographic items, audio equipment, and motor vehicles) are subject to ad valorem customs import tariffs, which are levied at one of only two rates (2 percent and 5 percent). Certain types of imports are exempt from these customs tar iffs (goods imported from trading partners of the Baltic Coun- tries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, goods imported according to barter contracts, and goods imported by certain state agencies). Payments for imports may be made through authorized commercial bank correspondent accounts. Foreign exchange needed for authorized import transactions may be purchased from com- mercial banks, taken from a domestic foreign exchange account, or purchased directly by enter- prises or their agents in the weekly foreign exchange auction. 2While this is the case in practice, some legal ambiguity exists w i th respect to the ability of residents to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad. The ambiguity arises from the fact that while such accounts are permitted under the Law on Foreign Currency Control, they are prohibited under the Monetary Law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 469 Exports and Export Proceeds In the past, exports were subject to multiple restrictions, including state orders, quotas, trading directed through government monopoly agencies, licensing, and tariffs. In November 1995, export quo- tas and state orders were abolished for all goods with the exception of the 1995 cotton crop.3 Also, barter trade was prohibited, except for the alumi- num plant. As for the 1996 cotton crop, the complete abolition of the system of state orders was announced in November 1995, and cotton growers will be free to decide to whom and at what prices they will sell their crops. Exports are currently free from export licensing requirements and, with the exception of the 70 percent of the 1995 cotton crop that is subject to state orders, free from monopoly export rights. On February 24,1996, the Government abolished all customs duties on exports with effect from March 1, 1996. However, exports of cotton fiber, aluminum and other metal products, tobacco, leather, fertilizers, and certain other products remain subject to a 100 percent prepayment requirement before goods will be shipped. Exports of other prod- ucts are subject to a requirement for payment within 90 days to be guaranteed by a domestic bank. On November 1, 1995, the surrender requirement for export proceeds from goods other than cotton and aluminum was reduced to 30 percent from 70 percent. On February 24, 1996, the Government abolished the foreign exchange surrender require- ment and replaced it with a requirement that foreign exchange earnings be repatriated. Upon repatria- tion, foreign exchange proceeds may either be held by exporters in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks or sold in the interbank market. On February 24,1996, export duties and export licenses were also abolished. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange that may be taken out of Tajikistan by resi- dents traveling abroad for tourism purposes, for public or private business, or other travel (e.g., edu- cation, medical expenses). There are no minimum spending or conversion requirements for nonresi- dent travelers to Tajikistan. Nonresidents from coun- tries other than the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are not required to pay for transportation and hotel services in foreign currencies. There are no restrictions on the making of interest payments or principal debt-ser- vice payments. Capital Inward and outward capital transactions do not require licensing by the National Bank. Foreign investors are required to register with the Ministry of Finance, but there are no limits on inward capital transactions. There are no restrictions on the repatri- ation of foreign investment profits, assuming domestic tax obligations have been fulfilled. Profits may be reinvested in Tajikistan, held in local com- mercial banks in rubles or foreign currency, or trans- ferred abroad. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement May 10. The Tajik ruble was introduced as the sole legal tender in the Republic of Tajikistan. May 23. Weekly foreign exchange auctions began to be conducted at the TICEX. Administration of Control May 10. Commercial banks were allowed to main- tain open foreign exchange positions, subject to the limitation that individual and overall net positions do not exceed 5 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of unimpaired capital. May 10. The Law on Foreign Currency Control was passed. Exports and Export Proceeds November 1. The surrender requirement for export proceeds from goods other than cotton and alumi- num was reduced to 30 percent from 70 percent. November 1. Export quotas and state orders, other than for the 1995 cotton crop, were eliminated. November 1. Barter trade was prohibited, except for aluminum. Changes During 1996 Exports and Export Proceeds 3However, Government Decree No. 617 of October 10,1995, in- structs producers to give the State Committee for Contracts and Trade and the Tajik Consumer Cooperative priority access to the output of manu fac tu red consumer goods. February 24. Export duties, export licenses, and surrender requirements were abolished, and a repa- triation requirement was imposed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of April 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling, the external value of which is determined in the interbank market. The Bank of Tanzania intervenes in the interbank market only to smooth movements that are caused by transitory factors. The official exchange rate varies according to the rate emerging from the interbank market and remains within a 2 percent band around the current day's market rate. The official exchange rate is used for accounting, taxation, and for settlement of government obliga- tions. The exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies concerned in interna- tional markets.1 On December 31,1995, the exchange rate in the interbank market was T Sh 555.92 per $1. Certain transactions may be effected through foreign exchange bureaus that are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. Cur- rency convertibility within the East African coun- tries was established on December 31,1995. The Bank of Tanzania does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. However, authorized dealers may, at their discretion, enter into forward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign curren- cies with their customers in export and import trans- actions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Under the Foreign Exchange Act of 1992, the Bank of Tanzania was vested with the power to adminis- ter all matters related to transactions in foreign exchange and gold. The Bank of Tanzania has dele- gated authority to make payments abroad to all licensed banks. The Bank of Tanzania Act of 1995 empowers the Bank to control exchange operations in the United Republic of Tanzania, including opera- tions in Zanzibar. Zanzibar has liberalized its foreign trade system. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Comorian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Lesotho maloti, Malawian kwacha, Mauri- tian rupees, Mozambican meticais, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Somali shillings, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollars. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and nonresidents must be made either in convertible cur- rencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a convertible nonresident account. Tanzania maintains inoperative bilateral pay- ments agreement with Mozambique. It participates in the payments arrangement of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA) and maintains clearing arrangements with Kenya and Uganda. Foreign Currency Accounts Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals who usually reside in Tanzania may maintain foreign exchange accounts in the form of a current, savings, or deposit account. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of certain imports to the main- land from any source that are prohibited for reasons of health or security, imports are not subject to licensing requirement. For statistical purposes only, all imports of goods require an import declaration form. Imports of goods with a value exceeding $5,000 have to undergo a preshipment inspection for quality, quantity, and price verification. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, and the tariff schedule is ad valorem. The tariff regime comprises four bands of 10 percent, 20 percent, 30 percent, and 40 percent. However, a minimum rate of 5 percent is granted by the Minis- ter of Finance for imports considered to be in the public interest. Specific duties are levied on alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and petroleum products. Statu- tory exemptions are granted for the diplomatic corps; and religious, educational, and welfare insti- tutions. However, low tariffs are charged on machin- ery and discretionary full or partial exemptions may be allowed by the Minister of Finance if imports are considered to be in the public interest. There are no regulations governing the means by which imports can be financed. Most imports, irre- spective of their origin, are subject to a sales tax at rates ranging up to 30 percent of the c.i.f. value plus 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 471 import duty. This tax is also assessed on sales of domestic products. Payments for Invisibles There are no limits on purchases of foreign exchange for travel, education, and other invisible payments and transfers. Commercial banks and for- eign exchange bureaus have the authority to approve remittances abroad of up to one-third of the salary, throughout the period of employment, of foreigners temporarily working in Tanzania under contract and having a firm commitment to leave the country. A resident traveler may take out of the country up to the equivalent of $50 in domestic currency. No limits are imposed on travelers to Kenya and Uganda. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit for any remaining amount of the foreign exchange brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items for health, sanitary, or national heritage reasons. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 180 days of the date of exportation, but they need not be surrendered. Proceeds from the exportation of tradi- tional goods from Zanzibar are subject to a 100 per- cent repatriation requirement and exporters are allowed to operate foreign exchange accounts or sell the proceeds to the commercial banks or to the bureaus. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may be retained. Travel- ers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a returning traveler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins up to the equivalent of $50. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Repatriation of capital and associated income is done freely through commercial banks upon presen- tation of audited accounts indicating declared divi- dends, profits or capital to be repatriated, plus authenticated documents confirming payment of all taxes. Investment of foreign funds is not restricted in Tanzania, but, to ensure eventual repatriation, these investments must be recognized by the Investment Promotion Center, and a certificate of status as an approved enterprise under the National Investment Promotion Act of 1990 should be obtained from the Center. The act distinguishes three areas for foreign investments: (1) controlled areas, which are reserved for public investment or joint public and private enterprises; (2) reserved areas, which are reserved exclusively for investment by the public sector; and (3) areas that are reserved exclusively for Tanzanian citizens. Registered foreign investors are permitted to use up to 100 percent of their net foreign exchange earnings for debt servicing or remittances of profits and dividends. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval from the Bank of Tanzania. Gold Commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate in Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire raw gold in any form at home or abroad. Import licenses are not required. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement December 31. Currency convertibility within the East African countries was established. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Foreign exchange bureaus not meeting new capital requirements were restricted to over- the-counter money-changing transactions and thereby prohibited from providing trade finance. They were also prohibited from participating in the interbank foreign exchange market. Control over foreign exchange operations in Zanzibar was moved from the Bank of Zanzibar to the Bank of Tanzania. Nonresident Accounts January 1. Restrictions on nonresident accounts were removed. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The threshold above which imports require a license was raised to $5,000 from $2,000. Restrictions on the payment for insurance were removed as were restrictions on the financial instru- ments that could be used for payment for imports. Payments for Invisibles January 1. All limits on the purchase of foreign exchange for invisibles were replaced by automatic sale for all bona fide requests. The limit on the amount of domestic currency that can be taken out of the country was raised. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 472 TANZANIA April 30. The requirement that nonresidents pay hotel bills and related services in convertible curren- cies was eliminated. Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. Receipts from invisibles were no longer required to be sold to an authorized dealer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trading partners and on other considerations. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces the daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily mini- mum buying and maximum selling rates that com- mercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in Brunei dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 29,1995, the middle official rate for the U.S. dollar was B 25.19 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange transactions are car- ried out between commercial banks and customers arid among the commercial banks. All forward transactions must be related to underlying trade and financial transactions. The open foreign exchange positions of commercial banks are restricted by the Bank of Thailand. The forward premium in the baht- U.S. dollar rate is freely determined and usually reflects interest rate differentials. Thailand accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 4, 1990. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank of Thailand delegates responsibility to autho- rized banks (commercial banks) for approving most transactions. Apart from authorized banks, autho- rized companies and authorized persons are also allowed to deal in foreign exchange operations, although their activities are limited to the buying and selling of foreign banknotes and traveler's checks up to a set amount prescribed by the Bank of Thailand. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements for currencies that can be used in settlements with foreign coun- tries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. No restrictions are placed on the opening of non- resident foreign currency accounts as long as the funds originate abroad. Foreign currency borrowed by nonresidents from authorized banks and foreign currency arising from withdrawals from nonresi- dent baht accounts may be freely deposited in for- eign currency accounts. Balances on these accounts earn interest and may be transferred abroad without restriction. Nonresidents may also open nonresident baht accounts. These accounts may be debited without restriction, and foreign currency arising from with- drawals from these accounts can be freely deposited in foreign currency accounts. Nonresident baht accounts may also be credited freely with payments for goods and services by residents and with funds transferred from other nonresident baht accounts. These accounts may also be freely credited with pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currency withdrawn from nonresidents' foreign currency accounts, as well as baht proceeds borrowed from authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for certain goods. Imports of some goods are prohibited for protective or social reasons. Milk producers are required to use locally produced milk in some quantity in the pro- duction of skim milk when they import skim milk for domestic sale. In 1995, quantitative restrictions on 22 agricultural products and on tobacco were eliminated and the surcharges on soya bean cakes were removed. Importers are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions where the value exceeds B 500,000 when submitting the import entry form at customs, except for certain goods, such as military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, donated goods, and samples. Payments for imports may be made through any authorized bank. Importers may freely purchase for- eign currency or draw foreign exchange from their own foreign currency accounts for payments. A reduction of import tariffs on 3,842 items was initiated as a part of the Uruguay Round. The aver- age tariff rate will be 28 percent by the end of the implementation period, compared to an initial nego- tiating level of about 30 percent. In addition, Thai- 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 THAILAND land has restructured customs tariffs covering 6,898 items, whereby the average tariff will decrease to about 17 percent from 30 percent by January 1,1997, with a decline in the number of tariff rates to 6 from 39: zero percent for certain goods, such as medical equipments; 1 percent for raw materials, electronic components, and international transport vehicles; 5 percent for primary and capital goods, including machinery, tools, and computers; 10 percent for intermediate goods; 20 percent for finished prod- ucts; and 30 percent for those goods designated as requiring additional protection, like silk fabrics, can- vas goods, garments, shoes, hats, and leather bags. Payments for Invisibles Remittances abroad of service fees, royalties, insurance premiums, educational expenses, and family maintenance are permitted without restric- tion. Remittances of dividends and profits on all bona fide investments may be made freely. Autho- rized banks are also permitted to sell up to $100,000 a person a year in foreign exchange for remittances to families and relatives living abroad and up to $1 illion a person a year for remittances from the per- sonal assets of Thai emigrants who have permanent residence permits abroad. Foreign exchange transac- tion forms must be completed for transactions involving amounts of more than $5,000. Authorized money changers are allowed to sell up to $2,000, or its equivalent, a person in foreign exchange. Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those traveling to Vietnam and the coun- tries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out or remit a maximum of B 500,000. Authorized banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange in foreign banknotes for purposes of travel without any restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain categories of exports are subject to licens- ing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination.1 All other products may be exported freely. Exporters are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions involving more than B 500,000 when submitting the export entry form at customs. Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters are required to surrender foreign exchange proceeds to authorized banks or deposit them in foreign cur- rency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand 1 These include rice, canned tuna, all types of sugar, and certain types of coal, charcoal, and textile products. within 15 days of receipt, except that they are allowed to use foreign exchange proceeds to service external obligations without having to first surren- der them to authorized banks or deposit them in domestic banking accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Travelers passing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and interna- tional organizations are exempted from this require- ment. Authorized money changers are allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coins or trav- eler's checks in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks within 15 days of purchase. Travelers may bring in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins without restriction. Capital Foreign investments in Thailand through equity participation or portfolio investments are permitted freely. Investments that receive promotional privi- leges from the Board of Investment under the Invest- ment Promotion Act (B.E. 2520) are accorded various incentives and special benefits. Foreign capital may be brought into the country and loans contracted without restriction, but pro- ceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with autho- rized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Repatriation of investment funds, loan repayments, and interest payments may be made without restric- tion. Inflows and outflows of funds exceeding $5,000 or its equivalent are subject to completion of foreign exchange transaction forms. External borrowing by the public sector must be approved by the Foreign Debt Committee. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to non- residents in foreign currency without restriction. Foreign currency loans may be extended to residents for outward remittance or domestic use. If loans are used domestically, resident borrowers are required to convert the foreign currency obtained into baht, which they are not allowed to deposit in foreign cur- rency accounts. Banks are not allowed to count loans in foreign currencies to purchase unused land, or for personal reasons, as foreign assets and only 50 percent of cer- tain other loans may be counted as foreign assets, unless the borrower fully covers his exchange risk by buying the exchange forward at the same bank that extended the loan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 475 In April 1995, finance and securities companies were required to hold a daily long and short foreign exchange position not exceeding 25 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of first-tier capital funds. In November 1995, the average weekly net long and short foreign exchange position that authorized banks are required to hold was changed to either 20 percent or 15 percent, respectively, of first-tier capital funds, or $5 million, whichever is larger. Direct investments abroad by Thai residents or lend- ing to companies abroad that have at least 25 percent equity participation by Thai residents is permitted up to $10 million a year without authorization from the Bank of Thailand. Portfolio investments and pur- chases of properties abroad by Thai residents require approval from the Bank of Thailand. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Pur- chases or sales of gold on commodity futures exchanges are prohibited. Imports and exports of gold other than gold jewelry are prohibited unless a license has been obtained from the Ministry of Finance or the transaction is made on behalf of the monetary authorities. Foreign tourists may take out precious stones, gold or platinum ornaments, and other articles without restriction. Exports of gold bul- lion are prohibited. Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in value must com- plete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when submitting import or export entry forms. Gold ornaments are not subject to export duty or taxes. Changes During 1995 Nonresident Accounts February 22. The Provincial International Banking Facility (PIBF) was established; PIBF's funding must be from overseas like the Bangkok International Banking Facility (BIBF), but PIBF can extend credit in both baht and foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The licensing requirement for 23 agri- cultural products was eliminated and the surcharge on soya bean cakes were removed. A reduction in import tariffs for 3,842 items was initiated as a part of the Uruguay Round. The average tariff rate will be 28 percent by the end of the implementation period, compared to an initial negotiating level of about 30 percent. In addition, Thailand has restruc- tured customs tariffs covering 6,898 items, whereby the average tariff rate will decrease to about 17 per- cent from 30 percent by January 1, 1997, with a decline in the number of tariff rates to 6 percent from 39 percent prior to the reforms: zero percent for cer- tain goods, such as medical equipment; 1 percent for raw materials, electronic components, and interna- tional transport vehicles; 5 percent for primary and capital goods, including machinery, tools, and com- puters; 10 percent for intermediate goods; 20 percent for finished products; and 30 percent for those goods designated as requiring additional protection, like silk fabrics, canvas goods, garments, shoes, hats, and leather bags. Payments for Invisibles March 21. The Copyright Act went into force. Capital March 7. The Bank of Thailand required banks to submit detailed information on risk control mea- sures on trading in foreign exchange and derivatives. August 8. The Bank of Thailand imposed a reserve requirement of 7 percent on nonresident baht accounts with maturities of less than one year. September 21. The Bank of Thailand adopted a new method of calculating nontrade net open foreign exchange positions (on which there are limits set as a percent of capital) for foreign and locally incorpo- rated banks. For these banks, foreign-exchange- denominated loans are not to be counted as foreign assets if the loans are used for purchasing unused land or for personal purposes. For certain other cate- gories, only 50 percent of the loan would be allowed to be counted as a foreign asset. Borrowers who fu l ly hedge the foreign exchange risk by buying foreign exchange forward from the bank that extended the loan are exempted from this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of June 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.01. The offi- cial buying and selling rates are CFAF 100 per F1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a pro- portional commission of 2.50 per mil with a maxi- mum collection of CFAF 100 and a freely determined charge for each transaction; the commission on transfers between member countries of the BCEAO is freely fixed by the banks. The proportional com- mission must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The contracting of forward exchange cover requires the prior authorization of the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance, and permission may be granted only in respect of the importation of certain clearly specified goods. The maturity of exchange contracts can be no more than three months for goods deemed essential or strategic and one month for all other goods. There is no official currency swap scheme or guaranteed exchange rate for debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to gold; the repatriation of export proceeds; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of securities; capital assets; and the soliciting of funds for investments abroad, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territo- ries) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Came- roon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Senegal). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Togo accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 1, 1996. !The CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 476 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises bor- rowing abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo; inward direct investment and all outward investment; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. The Foreign Exchange Legal Commission has been created to advise the Minister of Economy and Finance on requests to settle cases involving vio- lations of foreign exchange regulations for amounts of CFAF 500,000 or more and on specific requests from violators of foreign exchange regulations. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly through eco- nomic agents or through the banks, financial institu- tions, Postal and Telecommunications Office (Office des postes et telecommunications), and offices of government ministries, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. The for- warding and receipt through the mail by authorized intermediaries of banknotes, other than those issued by the BCEAO, are subject to control by the BCEAO. The forwarding and receipt through the mail by authorized intermediaries of banknotes issued by the BCEAO are prohibited. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal and Telecom- munications Office, or the BCEAO. AH required import licenses and virtually all required export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exports of locally manufac- tured products, and food crops other than cereals, and imports of most products are not subject to licensing. Prescription of Currency Because Togo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current pay- ments involving The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 477 African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in any of the currencies. of those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts Because the BCEAO has suspended the repur- chase of BCEAO banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, foreign accounts in francs may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes without authorization. Imports and Import Payments All imports may be made freely, with the follow- ing exceptions for which licenses are required: (1) pharmaceuticals, explosives, and firearms; and (2) imports of potatoes, which may be prohibited during the period when local production is adequate to meet local demand (between August and February). The following taxes are imposed on all imports: (1) a statistical tax of 3 percent; (2) fiscal import duties of zero, 5 percent, 10 percent, and 20 percent; (3) a value-added tax at rates of zero, 7 percent, and 18 percent. With the exception of the value-added tax, which is assessed on the basis of the c.i.f. value of imports inclusive of fiscal import duties, all other taxes are levied on c.i.f. values. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, with the exception of imports not involving payment or financing through the Postal and Telecommunications Office and certain imports of a private nature. Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts (dossiers de domicilia- tiori) and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a doc- umentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. Purchases of foreign exchange for down payments are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance; such authoriza- tion may be granted only on the date payment is due and only for up to 30 percent for each transaction involving capita) goods and up to 10 percent for other transactions. For all import operations exceed- ing CFAF 200,000, merchandise insurance must be taken out and domiciled with an approved insur- ance company in Togo. Inspection of the quality, quantity, and price of imports has been suspended. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authori- zation when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also generally permitted. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not mem- bers of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) are allowed to take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in banknotes other than CFA banknotes; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and authorized by the respective ministers of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and busi- ness travel. Upon arrival at customs, returning resi- dent travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession and must surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, when traveling to countries that are not members of the WAEMU, must declare in writing at the time of departure all means of payment at their disposal. Nonresident travelers may re-export means of pay- ment other than banknotes issued abroad and regis- tered in their name, subject to documentation that they had used funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange to pur- chase these means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank- notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank- notes or their purchase against other means of pay- ment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 TOGO The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence per- mit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses in certain cases. The Office of Togolese Phosphates has a monopoly over the exportation of phosphates, the Office of Togolese Agricultural Products has a monopoly over the exportation of cocoa and coffee, and the Togolese Cotton Company has monopoly over the export of cotton fiber. Exports of cereals have been temporarily suspended by the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports; the Technical Com- mittee meets twice a year —before March to make a determination of whether an exportable surplus exists, and again before November 10 to establish the actual export levels. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, including the Oper- ations Account area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date to authorized intermediaries; autho- rized diamond purchasing officers, however, may retain foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions, including those with the Operations Account countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. The domiciling bank is responsible for ensuring effective repatriation of such receipts through the BCEAO. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ser- vices, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 25,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries of the Operations Account area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and are restricted, but cap- ital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for place- ment abroad. Such operations require prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government; and (2) shares that are identical to, or can be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the excep- tion of controls relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAEMU, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Togo, including investments made through foreign com- panies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo, require prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed by foreign borrowing. Foreign direct investments in Togo, including those made by com- panies in Togo directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Togo, must be reported to the Ministry of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister may request postponement of the projects within two months of receiving the declaration. Total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward invest- ment also requires prior reporting to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liq- uidation of investments, whether Togolese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Ministry of Economy and Finance and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are investments implying con- trol of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 479 does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circum- stances, any other loans, provided that the outstand- ing amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct invest- ment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization from the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may, for a specified number of years, be granted special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. To obtain the tax benefits provided under the Investment Code adopted in 1989, firms must pro- vide an amount from equity equivalent to at least 25 percent of the amount net of taxes to finance new projects (excluding working capital), and pay at least 60 percent of their wage bill to workers who are nationals of Togo. Tax benefits include primarily exemptions from the minimum forfait tax and corpo- rate income taxes for five years for small and medium-size enterprises, seven years for enterprises that process domestic raw materials, and three years for other enterprises. The code guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. The importation and exportation of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments August 17. Import license requirement for the importation of cement, corrugated iron, concrete reinforcing bars, and wheat flour was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds February 8. The export of cereals was provisionally suspended. May 31. The monopoly over the export of cotton fiber was transferred to the Togolese Cotton Com- pany (SOTOCO). Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement June 1. Togo accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tonga is the Pa'anga. Its external value is determined on the basis of a weighted bas- ket of currencies, comprising the U.S. dollar, the Australian dollar, and the New Zealand dollar. The National Reserve Bank of Tonga (the central bank) maintains buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency. The commercial banks quote daily rates for 16 currencies1 on the basis of their values against the pa'anga. The spread between the commercial banks' buying and selling rates is approximately 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange are at a premium of approximately 1.5 percent, and purchases are at a discount of approximately 0.5 percent. On December 31, 1995, the central bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were T$1.275 and T$1.277, respectively, per US$1.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial banks are allowed to provide forward exchange cover, but their gross foreign exchange liabilities must not exceed US$1 million. Tonga accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on March 22, 1991. Administration of Control Tonga's trade and payments system is relatively free of controls. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the National Reserve Bank of Tonga and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies that can be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required for all imports, although these are generally issued freely. Import quotas apply only to fresh eggs and are intended to protect Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dol- lars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2For transactions with commercial banks, buying and selling rates were T$1.275 and T$1.277, respectively, per US$1 for trans- actions with other organizations, including the Government. domestic producers, but the restriction is not enforced. The importation of certain items is restricted for cultural or environmental reasons or to protect the health and safety of residents. Tariffs, which range up to 35 percent and apply to most pri- vate sector imports, are aimed primarily at increas- ing revenues, but protective tariffs are levied on a few items, such as beer, paint, and wire fencing. Tar- iffs are levied at an ad valorem rate on the c.i.f. value of imports, except for a few items (petroleum, tobacco products, and alcoholic beverages), which are subject to either specific tariffs or ad valorem rates ranging up to 300 percent of the c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. The maximum tariff rate, which is levied on motor vehicles, is 45 percent. Goods imported by the reigning monarch, by the Govern- ment and the public sector, and by diplomatic mis- sions, under certain technical assistance agreements, and personal effects are exempt from tariffs. Imports are also subject to a 20 percent port and services tax, except for items under the Industrial Development Incentives (IDI) Act, which qualify for concessional rates, and imports of government and quasi-govern- ment organizations, which are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated within 12 months and surrendered to the banking system, but this regulation is not enforced. Commercial banks must surrender all of their foreign exchange, apart from small working balances to the central bank. Licenses are required for all exports, except for ship- ments weighing less than 10 kilograms. With the exception of squash, which is subject to an export quota,3 the authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward granting those licenses. Effective January 1, 1992, the monopoly of the Commodities Board over exports of coconut and coconut derivatives, vanilla, and bananas was abolished. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange for invisible payments up to T$5,000 a transaction. The Ministry of Finance may approve requests for larger amounts upon submission of sat- 3The export quota applies only to the October-December sea- son and not to the small May crop. The quota for 1996 was eliminated. 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 481 isfactory documentary evidence that the underlying transaction is a bona fide current international trans- action. Such approvals are routinely granted with- out undue delay. Shipping and airline agencies may remit income earned from activities in Tonga upon producing income statements relating to local business activi- ties that have been submitted to their respective head offices. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment, although so far such investment remains small. Foreign investors are required to apply for licenses from the Ministry of Labor, Commerce, and Industries, with approval depending on the type of investment. High-technol- ogy projects are readily approved; intermediate projects are accepted if there is a local partner; and simple projects that can be readily undertaken by locals are likely to be rejected. The IDI Act prohibits foreign investment in certain sectors, including wholesaling and retailing, transportation, and some tourist-related activities, and all resource-based activities, such as fishing. However, joint ventures may be allowed if the project is deemed beneficial to the country. No time period has been specified for the approval process, which can be quite lengthy, but once licensed, foreign projects in manufactur- ing and tourism are fully eligible for incentives under the IDI Act. Under the IDI Act, foreign inves- tors involved in manufacturing are allowed duty- free imports of capital inputs, a maximum 15-year tax holiday, and, on a case-by-case basis, repatriation of profits and capital. In principle, outward investment is restricted. Direct investment abroad requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance, but is usually given if the transaction is considered beneficial to Tongan exports. The acquisition of foreign financial assets is, in principle, prohibited, but in practice, the restric- tion is not strictly enforced because the repatriation requirement is not enforced. Banks are permitted to hold only working bal- ances in foreign currencies up to a limit of T$l mil- lion. No explicit limits exist on foreign exchange liabilities, but provision of forward exchange cover for squash exporters requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Cover is not permitted for imports. Changes During 1995 Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The quota for squash exports during the October-December season was set at 17,500 tons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Foreign Currency Accounts The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trin- idad and Tobago Dollar. The exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar is determined in the interbank market on the basis of supply and demand. On December 31,1995, the buying and sell- ing rates were TT$5.8765 and TT$5.971, respectively, per US$1. Banks are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions, both spot and forward, with the public without limitation. Commercial banks must notify the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago in advance of any planned significant adjustment to the exchange rate. At the end of each trading day, the Central Bank publishes a nominal rate for the Trin- idad and Tobago dollar against each of the major currencies, based on a weighted average of the rates at which these currencies have been trading. Trinidad and Tobago accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on December 13,1993. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, which acts under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. Commercial banks can purchase foreign currency notes from the public, and the Central Bank in turn buys certain of these currencies from the commer- cial banks for repatriation to the respective mone- tary authorities under bilateral arrangements. The Central Bank does not repatriate Trinidad and Tobago currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U.S. dollars or in specified currencies.1 Authorized payments, includ- ing payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U.S. dollars or in one of the specified cur- rencies. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in U.S. dollars or in any of the specified currencies. Foreign currency accounts denominated in for- eign currency may be maintained at local banks by residents and nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All goods, unless excepted for reasons of health and security, may be imported under open general license (OGL) arrangements. Imports of firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either prohibited or tightly controlled for security and health reasons. Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are traded principally by state companies. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy pre- scribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, plants, and mining materials are subject to specific regulations. Duty-free licenses are granted to local concession- aire manufacturers for imports of certain inputs for manufacturing industries. Where goods are subject to import license, a general import license is used in addition to the duty-free license. Imports from non-CARicoM countries2 may be paid for in any currency in which goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The customs duty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 30 percent; the rate on agricultural pro- duce is 40 percent. The duty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cosmetics, jewelry, cloth- ing, and cotton and silk fabrics, range from 25 per- cent to 30 percent; the rate on motor vehicles is 35 percent. Some foodstuffs, fertilizers, and raw materials, and all goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempt from customs duties. Local enterprises pro- ducing import substitutes or export goods may be granted exemptions from customs duties by the Min- ister of Trade and Industry and the Tourism Indus- trial Development Company Limited (TIDCO). Payments for Invisibles Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trin- idad and Tobago local currency notes up to the value of TT$20,000. For amounts exceeding TT$20,000, 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and pounds sterling. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 482 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 483 there is no restriction, but a customs declaration is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods usually require an indi- vidual license. These include some foodstuffs, fire- arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permit- ted under OGL. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. There are no requirements for the repatriation of export proceeds received in foreign currencies. In practice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriates all for- eign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents and nonresidents may bring into Trin- idad and Tobago domestic currency notes up to the value of TT$20,000. For larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. Both resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in foreign currency notes up to US$5,000 without declaration to the controller of customs. Capital Capital transfers abroad do not require prior approval. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the forma- tion and operation of companies in the country. Foreign investors are required, however, to comply with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act of 1990 in order to hold an interest in real estate or shares in local companies. Following passage of the Central Bank Amendment Act of 1993, exchange control restrictions were removed, and foreign investors are no longer required to obtain approval from the Central Bank to repatriate capital or capital gains. There are no limitations on borrowing by for- eign investors on the local financial market. The Government has enacted basic incentive legis- lation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substi- tution industries. Since 1973, these policies have been effected within the framework of a CARICOM agreement on the harmonization of fiscal incentives. Certain concessions may be granted to approved enterprises, including temporary relief from import duties and taxes and other privileges outlined in the Investment Policy document issued by the Indus- trial Development Corporation. A commercial bank, as an authorized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open" asset or liability position in foreign exchange. Cross-border trading of shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges is permitted among the residents of Bar- bados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; residents and companies of the other two countries are desig- nated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago for exchange control purposes in cross-border trading. Gold Except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance, (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an authorized bank, and (2) gold (defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coins and bul- lion) may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. When appropriate, however, residents are permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Imports of gold jewelry are sub- ject to an OGL, but imports of other forms of gold are controlled by the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form are subject to specific export licenses; licenses for gold other than jewelry are not usually granted except to the monetary authorities, who may need to get authorization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The customs duties were reduced to the 5-30 percent range. The stamp duty was removed, and the import surcharge on all nonagricultural goods was removed. Tariffs on agricultural goods are scheduled to be eliminated by 1998. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar, the external value of which is determined in the inter- bank market in which commercial banks (including offshore banks acting on behalf of their resident cus- tomers) conduct transactions at freely negotiated rates. The spread between the buying and selling rates, however, may not exceed 0.25 percent. The Central Bank of Tunisia intervenes in the market by buying or selling dinars for foreign exchange. It pub- lishes an indicative interbank exchange rate for for- eign currencies and banknotes by the following day, at the latest. On December 31, 1995, the average interbank spot rates were D 0.19398 for one French franc and D 0.9508 for one U.S. dollar.1 Forward rates are published daily by the Central Bank. Forward cover may be requested for a mini- mum of the equivalent of D 10 million in foreign exchange. The forward rates published daily by the Central Bank are merely indicative when cover is requested for amounts equal to or more than the for- eign currency equivalent of D 10 million. Different rates may be set for these requests; the authorized bank is notified thereof prior to the conclusion of the forward contract. Importers and exporters are authorized to obtain forward exchange cover from the authorized banks as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward cover may be established for a maximum of 12 months for imports and a maximum of 9 months for exports. Persons who provide services are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days of the date on which the claim originated. Curren- cies quoted forward are Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guil- ders, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Swaps are permitted among foreign currency operators. Trad- ing on 3-, 6-, and 12-month foreign currency options Currencies quoted spot for account holdings and banknotes are Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pese- tas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. Currencies quoted spot for banknotes only are CFA francs, Luxembourg francs, and Qatar riyals. Algerian dinars are quoted spot only. on French francs, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars is available to resident borrowers of foreign exchange under standard contracts. The Central Bank extends exchange rate guarantees to certain officially guar- anteed loans, with risk premiums based on domestic and international interest rates. Tunisia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, on Janu- ary 6,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates authority over payments for imports and most invisibles to the authorized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Minis- try of Trade, which issues import and export autho- rization for products when required. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries may be made in any convertible currency (traded in the interbank market) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through foreign accounts. Settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, and Morocco may be effected through convertible accounts in the national currencies con- cerned at the respective central banks. Payments to Israel are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Special accounts in foreign currency or convertible dinars may be opened by (1) natural persons of Tuni- sian nationality changing their normal residence to Tunisia from abroad and any other natural or juridi- cal persons of Tunisian nationality for their non- transferable assets legitimately acquired abroad; (2) natural persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; (3) foreign juridical persons for their estab- lishments located in Tunisia; and (4) Tunisian diplo- mats and civil servants stationed abroad. No formalities are required for the opening of these accounts by foreigners; a declaration of holdings, however, is required for Tunisians. Funds legiti- mately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (1) foreign exchange surrendered to the Central Bank; (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder, 484 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 485 his or her spouse, parents, and offspring to under- take foreign travel; (3) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars; and (4) any payments abroad (including those for the acquisition of movable or immovable tangible property located abroad, of ownership rights abroad, or of foreign claims and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities). Foreign accounts in convertible dinars and convertible currencies may be opened freely by all nonresidents regardless of nationality. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) receipts in convertible for- eign currencies or the dinar proceeds from sales of convertible currencies to the Central Bank; bank- notes must be declared to customs; (2) convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank by debit of a foreign account in convertible dinars; (4) authorized payments by resi- dents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest on balances in these accounts and interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (6) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (7) proceeds from the cashing of checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other credits require prior autho- rization from the Central Bank, either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia (irrespective of the payer's country of residence); (2) transfers to other foreign accounts; (3) the purchase of any for- eign currency from, or sales of any foreign exchange to, the Central Bank; and (4) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident beneficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or sala- ried employees of the account holder. Professional accounts in foreign currency may be opened by any natural person residing in Tunisia or by any Tunisian or foreign juridical person for their foreign currency assets in connection with their establishments located in Tunisia. These accounts are essentially designed to allow their holders to cover themselves against exchange risks. They may be credited with (1) up to 40 percent of the export receipts of their holders; (2) the interest generated by the amounts deposited in such accounts; and (3) transfers from another professional account of the holder, either in the same foreign currency or another one. They may be debited for (1) payment of any current operation pertaining to the activity for which they were opened; and (2) any other transac- tion with general or specific authorization. Balances may also be placed on the foreign exchange market. Professional accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by natural or juridical persons residing in Tunisia with resources in foreign exchange, subject to central bank authorization. These accounts may be credited and debited under the terms laid down by the Central Bank in the authorization to open such accounts. Internal nonresident accounts may be opened freely by authorized intermediaries in the name of nonres- ident individuals of foreign nationality residing tem- porarily in Tunisia. These accounts may be credited without authorization from the Central Bank with the following: (1) transfers of funds carried out in convertible currencies from a foreign country; (2) revenue of any kind accruing in Tunisia to the holder of the account (in particular, the nontransfer- able part of remuneration for services rendered by that person in Tunisia); (3) liquid assets from estates opened in Tunisia; (4) proceeds from the repayment of loans previously granted in dinars with funds from the account holder's internal nonresident account; and (5) transfers from another internal non- resident account opened in the name of the account holder. They may be debited for (1) support of the account holder and his or her family in Tunisia; (2) payment of costs of managing property in Tuni- sia; (3) lending to residents; and (4) transfers to another internal nonresident .account opened in the name of the account holder. Special dinar accounts may be freely opened by non- resident foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia that have been approved by the Central Bank. Such enterprises are authorized to open, for each contract, a single special account in dinars, in which they may deposit the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a foreign account in convertible dinars, the dinar equivalent of foreign currency drawn on a foreign account in convertible foreign currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign cur- rency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the Central Bank. Interest is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 TUNISIA awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon gen- eral or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for spe- cific purposes, transferred abroad, or transferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain condi- tions, suspense accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, for pur- chases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio man- agement expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, or payments of the expenses of manag- ing securities deposited in a suspense file opened in the name of the account holder. They may also be debited for settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder and his or her family up to D100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a suspense account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the following year may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the offspring or parents of the resident account holder. Individuals or juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding suspense accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Capital accounts may be opened in the name of a nonresident natural person of foreign nationality or by a nonresident juridical person. The opening of these accounts by a nonresident of Tunisian nation- ality or his or her spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global capital accounts for their nonresident customers. Subject to certain conditions, capital accounts may be credited, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemption, of transfer- able Tunisian securities; the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court (Cour de cassation), or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from another capital account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, capital accounts may be freely debited for the living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his or her family, up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more capital accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000 a family for trips to Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the subsequent year. In addition, a capital account holder traveling in Tuni- sia between November 1 and March 31 may with- draw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surren- dered to the Central Bank, an authorized intermedi- ary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to cer- tain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities; for the mainte- nance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capital account. Balances on capital accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign nation- ality, with the exception of juridical persons gov- erned by public law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account holder's parents and offspring residing in Tunisia, at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay interest and may not be over- drawn. Individuals and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding capital accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited. All imports are liberalized except those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of flora and fauna, and cultural heritage. Some goods may only be imported temporarily, subject to an import authorization. The list of items not subject to import liberalization is set by decree. Some items, the list of which is drawn up by decree by the Minis- ter of Trade, are subject to technical import controls. A countervailing import duty may be applied to any item that has been dumped or subsidized and that, when used, is or could be detrimental to the national production of a similar product. The importation of liberalized products is effected by an import certifi- cate upon presentation of a contract domiciled with an authorized intermediary. Goods not subject to lib- eralization are imported under cover of an import authorization issued by the Ministry of Trade. Imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment paid with funds from sources outside Tunisia may be effected without for- eign trade formalities by enterprises for their own use up to a value of D 100,000. Furthermore, companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and set up under the Investment Incentives Code promulgated by Law No. 93-120 of December 27, 1993, and companies established in a free trade zone ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 487 under Law No. 92-81 of August 3,1992, on free trade zones may import freely without foreign trade for- malities any goods required for their production pro- cess, subject only to customs declaration. Importers must receive a customs code number before they can obtain an import certificate. All import documents involving payments must be han- dled by an authorized intermediary. Foreign cur- rency may be purchased from the Central Bank or a delegated commercial bank for all payments. Resi- dent importers are authorized to buy forward for- eign currencies required for fu ture settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of 12 months, at rates established daily by the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the value-added tax and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. In some cases, imports des- tined for domestic investment projects are eligible for full or partial exemption from import duties. tional amounts may be allowed for this purpose if the state of their health requires several trips abroad during the same year. Persons accompanying patients may transfer up to D 250 a trip in the case of medical or paramedical staff and D 500 in all other cases. Other payments for invisibles may be made freely. Regardless of nationality, residents traveling abroad by air or sea, except to the countries of the Arab Maghreb Union, are subject to a travel tax of D 45 a trip. Nonresidents, diplomats, persons travel- ing under the Agence de cooperation technique, emigrant workers, a resident of Tunisia whose spouse resides abroad, children living in Tunisia who have one or both parents residing abroad, stu- dents, pilgrims to Mecca, and those traveling for medical reasons are exempt from the tax. The expor- tation of Tunisian dinar banknotes and coins is prohibited. Payments for Invisibles Exports and Export Proceeds Authorized banks are empowered to provide for- eign exchange for tourist and business travel, study and educational expenses, expenses related to travel abroad for reasons of health, and salary transfers, up to prescribed limits. The annual limits for tourist travel allowances are D 500 for an adult and D 250 for a child under the age of 10. The annual settlement and the monthly educational expense allowances for a student are D 1,000 and D 600, respectively. Amounts exceeding these limits may be authorized by the Central Bank. Business travel allowances are granted for all exporters of goods and services, all enterprises, including liberal professions, who have declared their business turnover during the previous year to the tax authorities, and promoters of new projects. The allowance for exporters is 10 percent of export proceeds for the current year, with an annual limit of D 80,000. The annual limit on the allowance for business travel by importers ranges from D 5,000 to D 30,000, depending on turnover, and the annual limit on the allowance for business travel by other professions ranges from D 2,000 to D 20,000, depend- ing on turnover declared to the tax authorities. The allowance for promoters of new projects is a maxi- mum of D 5,000, and is granted only once for the duration of the project. Contractually employed foreign nationals and for- eign experts employed by the public sector may transfer up to 50 percent of their earnings; for techni- cal assistants, limits on transfers are specified in their contracts. Persons traveling abroad for health reasons may transfer up to D 750 a year for travel expenses. Addi- All exports to Israel are prohibited. All exports are liberalized, except those indicated in a list estab- lished by decree. Certain products, the list of which is established by edict of the Ministry of Trade, are subject to technical export control. Liberalized items are exported upon presentation to customs of the final invoice. The exports must be domiciled within eight days of the date of shipment of the merchandise. Goods not subject to liberalization are exported upon presentation of an authorization issued by the Minister of Trade. Companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and set up under the Investment Incentives Code and companies estab- lished in a free economic zone may export freely without foreign trade formalities, subject only to customs declarations. As a general rule, all export proceeds must be repatriated within ten days of the payment due date. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. Under certain conditions, approval from the Central Bank is not required for the extension of export credits of up to 180 days. Resident exporters may sell forward, for a maximum term of 9 months (12 months for providers of services), foreign currencies represent- ing the proceeds from their merchandise exports through authorized intermediaries. Resident exporters may credit up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to their professional accounts (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Balances in these accounts may be used for any foreign exchange transaction with spe- cific or general authorization, such as payments of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 TUNISIA expenses needed for the enterprise's activities and servicing of external obligations. Nonresident com- panies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and covered by the Investment Incentives Code, nonresident international trading companies, and nonresident enterprises constituted in a free trade zone are not required to repatriate or surren- der their export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons residing abroad and all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from foreign countries. However, the facilities associated with professional accounts in foreign exchange and in convertible dinars apply to proceeds from services (see sections on Resident and Nonresident Accounts and Exports and Export Proceeds). Foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely, but importation of Tunisian dinar banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresidents travelers wishing to re-export the foreign exchange equivalent of amounts exceeding D 1,000 must declare to customs the foreign curren- cies they are importing upon their entry into Tunisia. There is no ceiling on the reconversion of Tunisian banknotes by nonresident travelers. Foreign exchange from dinar reconversion may be re- exported upon presentation of a foreign exchange voucher or receipt if the amount to be re-exported is less than D 1,000 or if the foreign exchange used in the purchase of the dinars was received from abroad in the form of a check, draft, money order, or any other evidence of a claim or by debiting a foreign account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. The foreign exchange import declaration approved by customs is also required if the amount of foreign exchange from dinar reconversion exceeds the equivalent of D 1,000 derived from the surrender of foreign currencies physically imported from abroad. Capital All foreign direct investments carried out legiti- mately in Tunisia with foreign exchange transferred from abroad are guaranteed the right to repatriate the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the invested capital, even if the net proceeds exceed the initial value of foreign exchange invested. Foreign direct investments in agriculture and fish- eries, manufacturing, public works, tourism, handi- crafts, transport, education and teaching, vocational training, the production of culture and related industries, youth coordination and child supervi- sion, health, environmental conservation, real estate promotion, and other nonfinancial activities and ser- vices benefit from the incentives contained in the Investment Incentives Code, promulgated by Law No. 93-120 of December 27, 1993. Foreign direct investments in the financial and banking sector and those carried out in a free trade zone benefit from the incentives provided for in Law No. 85-108 of Decem- ber 6, 1985 (on incentives for financial and banking establishments conducting business essentially with nonresidents), and in Law No. 92-81 of August 3, 1992 (on free trade zones), respectively. The invest- ment incentives include tax and financial benefits, as well as facilities, with regard to laws and regulations governing foreign exchange and foreign trade that are essentially oriented toward export promotion. The acquisition of stock by foreign nonresidents in companies established in Tunisia with foreign exchange transferred from abroad is free; however, in case stock has attached voting rights, the approval by the High Investment Commission is required for acquisitions that result in foreign ownership exceed- ing 10 percent of capital for shares listed in the stock exchange and 30 percent for unlisted shares. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and who leave the country permanently are entitled to transfer the following: 50 percent of their assets (with a minimum of D 1,750 and a maximum of D 3,500) if they left Tunisia before August 20, 1970; D 4,000 if they left between August 20, 1970 and December 31,1973; D 5,000 if they left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 if they left after December 31, 1974; D 15,000 if they left Tunisia after December 31, 1978, are over 60 years of age, and are Tunisian nationals; and an unlimited amount if they are French or Italian nationality regardless of their date of departure from Tunisia. To support their export activities, resident export- ers may, depending on their turnover for the previ- ous financial year, transfer abroad amounts ranging from D 20,000 to D 100,000 a calendar year to cover installation, maintenance, and operating costs of branches and subsidiaries or to finance equity par- ticipation, and D 10,000 to D 50,000 to cover installa- tion, maintenance, and operating costs of liaison or representative offices. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to an annual limit of D 10 million and D 3 million, respectively. All other transfers by residents, the contracting of foreign loans by residents, and the extension of loans to nonresidents require approval from the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 489 Bank, except for investment loans extended by resi- dent banks for nonresident industrial enterprises with funds held abroad. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. Only dentists, artisan jewelers, and cooperatives formed by artisans are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation and exportation of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require joint authoriza- tion from the Central Bank and the Ministry of Trade. The exportation of gold is prohibited. January 1. The list of products subject to temporary complementary import duties was modified; duty rates previously introduced were modified or elimi- nated; a new VAT rate category of 10 percent was introduced; VAT rates on certain products were reduced, suspended, or eliminated (Law No. 94- 127). November 13. The list of products excluded from trade liberalization was modified. Capital June 28. Inward portfolio investment was partially liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of May 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate for the Turkish lira is market determined. Commercial banks, special finance institutions, authorized institutions, post, telephone, and telegraphic offices (PTT), and precious metal intermediary institutions are free to set their exchange rates according to prevalent market condi- tions. The lowest and highest rates applied in these transactions are to be reported daily to the Central Bank of Turkey. On each business day, the Central Bank announces an indicative exchange rate that is determined as the average of the buying and selling rates of the ten banks with the largest involvement in foreign exchange trading. On December 29,1995, the average buying and selling rates in the interbank market for the U.S. dollar were TL 59,501 and TL 59,800, respectively, per $1. The commercial banks and precious metal broker- age institutions may engage in forward transactions within the framework of open position limits deter- mined by the Central Bank. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accordance with international prac- tices. Banks enter into swap transactions with the Central Bank with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months. On November 27,1995, the Central Bank announced the establishment of an interbank for- ward exchange market that would operate alongside the existing interbank spot market. Turkey accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on March 22,1990. Administration of Control Exchange and trade controls are the responsibility of the Prime Ministries, to which the Undersecretar- iat of the Treasury and the Undersecretariat of For- eign Trade are attached. Administration of exchange controls has been delegated to the Central Bank, which regulates all matters related to foreign exchange operations. All commercial banks have been authorized by the Central Bank. Export regis- tration is carried out by trade organizations, accord- ing to instructions from the Central Bank. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Turkey notified the Fund on September 12, 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq. Prescription of Currency Certain commercial transactions with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, the Czech Republic, Poland, and the Slovak Republic are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries may be made in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents may open foreign exchange and gold deposit accounts with commer- cial banks. Balances on these accounts may be used freely. Persons holding valid Turkish passports and hav- ing permission or the right to work or reside abroad may open interest-bearing foreign currency deposit accounts or "super" foreign currency accounts, depending on the amount deposited and the matu- rity, with the head office of the Central Bank in Ankara. These accounts may be maintained upon the return of these persons to Turkey. Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange and Turkish liras with authorized commercial banks. The holders may dispose of such accounts at their discretion. Imports and Import Payments All goods are freely importable, except for those explicitly prohibited by law, such as narcotics, weap- ons, foreign coins made of metals other than gold, and ammunition. Imports of these goods are allowed only with a special permit from the authori- ties. Old, used and reconditioned, defective, sub- standard, soiled, or poor-quality goods may be imported only with special permission from the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade. But certain used goods that are not older than five years may be imported freely. In addition to the membership in the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), Turkey has signed a Customs Union agreement with the European Union (EU). The import regime has been revised in line with the EU legislation. According to the free 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 491 circulation of goods and customs declaration princi- ples of the EU legislation, import licenses and import document practices have been abolished. Since January 1, 1996, customs duties and a Mass Housing Fund deduction from the importation of industrial products from the EU and the EFTA have been reduced to zero, whereas the above-mentioned ratio has been reduced to approximately 6 percent for other countries parallel with the EU Common Customs Tariff. Value of importation is paid in Turkish lira or in foreign exchange by banks and special finance insti- tutions in conformity with customary banking and international practices. Import payments can be made through foreign exchange deposit accounts held with banks. Exporters and providers of services are freely allowed to use foreign exchange earned from exports of goods and services for payment of their own imports. Residents, individuals, and cor- porations with a legal number may import goods freely. Individuals may import goods only for their own needs. Payments for Invisibles Residents may freely make payments for invisible transactions relating to all services to nonresidents at home or abroad. All residents traveling abroad may carry foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of $5,000 a per- son without proof of exchange allocation by com- mercial banks, and banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to residents and nonresidents without restriction. Residents are allowed to use credit cards on a revolving basis up to a limit of $10,000 for travel and expenses abroad; balances exceeding $10,000 must be settled within 30 days. The travel tax was abolished on April 1,1996. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the equiv- alent of $5,000 in foreign currency notes and Turkish lira notes and coins. Nonresidents and Turkish citi- zens working abroad who are considered residents may take out foreign currency notes exceeding the equivalent of $5,000, provided that they have declared the amount upon their arrival; residents may take out foreign currency notes exceeding the equivalent of $5,000, provided that they produce proof of purchase from banks and special financial institutions within the framework of regulations related to invisible transactions. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally free of restrictions. The exportation of the goods that is prohibited by laws, decrees, and international agreements is forbidden. In addition, exportation of some goods requires per- mission of authorized institutions. The registration requirement on exportation of goods is only for sta- tistical purposes. All companies are allowed to conduct barter trade in accordance with established procedures. Foreign exchange receipts from merchandise exports must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment. If exchange receipts are surren- dered within 90 days, exporters are entitled to retain 30 percent of proceeds, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. Exporters may retain export proceeds abroad up to $50,000. Com- mercial banks; special financial institutions; and the PTT are required to sell to the Foreign Currency Notes Market and to the Central Bank 4 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports, invisible transactions, and gold accounts within a period agreed with the Central Bank. A system of export incentives in the form of subsi- dized credits administered by the Turkish Eximbank is in operation. Under the Foreign Trade Companies Rediscount Credit Program (introduced in January 1990), exporters whose annual export turnover exceeds $50 million are eligible to receive credit either in Turkish liras, with the interest rate related to the government bond yields, or in foreign cur- rency, with the interest rate linked to LIBOR. The Eximbank also maintains a program of preshipment credit designed to meet the financing needs of man- ufacturers and exporters. The credits under this pro- gram are extended for up to 120 days (180 days for small- and medium-sized industries) with fixed interest rates of between 25 percent and 50 percent of the f.o.b. value of the export commitment, depend- ing on the maturity. In addition, the Eximbank pro- vides buyers' credit facilities to support Turkish exports to certain countries, including Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and some of the countries of the former Soviet Union; it provides insurance against commercial and political risks on commercial terms. A new export credit program was introduced on January 15, 1996, by the Turkish Eximbank. The credits extended under this program mature to ten years. The importing countries are classified in three groups, and OECD Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRR), government bond yields, and SDR basket rates are applied to these loans. Premiums are paid from the Support and Price Stabilization Fund for selected export products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 492 Proceeds from Invisibles TURKEY Residents may accept foreign currency from non- residents for transactions processed in Turkey. For- eign exchange earned by residents in exchange for services they have rendered to nonresidents or on behalf of them in Turkey or abroad (including con- tracting services), as well as foreign exchange corre- sponding to expenses incurred in the name, and on behalf of, nonresidents, may be disposed of freely. Capital Nonresident individuals and corporations wish- ing to invest in Turkey must import the required capital in kind or in the form of foreign exchange and must obtain a license from the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. In establishing partnerships or joint companies in the Turkish private sector, foreign investors must bring in a minimum of $50,000 of capital. Certain investments are allowed under the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of For- eign Investments or the Petroleum Law. For com- mercial activities other than forming a company or opening a branch in accordance with the Capital and Petroleum Law, foreign investors must obtain the permission of the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. Profits and dividends and the proceeds from sales and liquidation of foreign capital may be transferred abroad and must be reported to the Central Bank. Resident individuals or corporations may invest abroad and in the free trade zones in Turkey up to the equivalent of $5 million in cash or in kind. The exportation of capital in amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5 million requires the authorization of the ministry to which the Undersecretariat of the Treasury is attached. Nonresidents may transfer abroad proceeds from sales of real estate without restriction. Purchases and sales by nonresidents (including investments, partnerships, and mu tual funds abroad) of all kinds of securities and other capital instruments through the banks and interme- diary institutions authorized according to the capital legislation may be made freely. The transfer of the income from such securities and instruments as well as the proceeds from their sale may be effected freely through banks and special finance institutions. Pur- chases and sales by residents of the securities traded in foreign financial markets are also free, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks, spe- cial f inance institutions, and intermediary institu- tions authorized according to the capital market legislation and that the transfer of their purchase value abroad is made through banks and special financial institutions. Residents may also issue, introduce, and sell securities and other capital mar- ket instruments in the financial markets abroad. Also the issuance, public introduction, and sales of securities and other capital market instruments in Turkey by nonresidents are unrestricted within the provisions of capital market legislation. Commercial banks may open foreign exchange accounts and gold deposit accounts for residents or nonresidents. Funds in such accounts may be freely disposed of by the holders, and interest rates and other conditions on the above accounts are freely negotiable between the parties. Commercial banks are free to conduct foreign exchange transactions according to their needs, within the margins of cer- tain ratios set by the Central Bank. Foreign exchange deposit accounts held at the commercial banks are subject to reserve require- ments, as follows. The reserve requirement ratio for demand and time deposit balances with one-month maturity, which was subject to the ratio in effect on March 31, 1994, is 18.5 percent, the ratio for these deposits with maturities of longer than one month is 15.5 percent, and the ratio for the deposit balance exceeding the amount that was subject to the reserve requirement in effect on March 31,1994 is 13 percent irrespective of their maturities. Gold Under a decree issued on December 21, 1994, exports and imports of precious metals, stones, and articles have been liberalized within the framework of the Foreign Trade Regime. However, the import and export of unprocessed gold, while declaration to the customs administrations is required, are not sub- ject to the provisions of the import and export regime and related regulation. Unprocessed gold may be imported by the Central Bank and by pre- cious metals intermediary institutions who are members of the Precious Metals Exchange. How- ever, the unprocessed gold imported by precious metals intermediary institutions who are members of the Precious Metals Exchange must be surren- dered to the Istanbul Gold Exchange within three days. The transaction regarding the purchase and sale in Turkey of unprocessed gold imported by the Central Bank and by precious metals intermediary institu- tions can only be conducted at the Istanbul Gold Exchange. The Istanbul Gold Exchange began its operations on July 26,1995. Banks may open gold deposit accounts in the name of legal and real entities residing in Turkey and abroad. The account holders may freely use bal- ances on their accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 493 Within the framework of the banking regulations, banks may extend gold credits to juridical and natu- ral persons involved in the jewelry business, upon the physical delivery of the gold purchased by their institutions, and against the gold held in the gold deposit accounts. The buying and selling prices of gold are freely determined by banks. The purchase and sale of precious metals, stones, and articles are free within the country. Passengers may bring into and take out of the country articles and made from precious metals and stones carrying the characteristics of ornamental articles that are not used for commercial purposes and of which the value does not exceed $15,000. The taking out of ornamental articles exceeding the said value is dependent on their declaration upon arrival or authenticating that they have been purchased in Turkey. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 13. The Central Bank revised the implemen- tation of surrender requirements, according to which the daily foreign exchange rates subject to these requirements would no longer be used as a means of monetary policy, but instead will be determined according to market conditions, that is, the upper and lower limits of the foreign exchange rates would remain in a band reflecting market fluctuations. Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 27. Communique No. 95-32/13 authorizing banks to open gold deposit accounts and credits became effective. Under the communique, banks would be authorized to open gold deposit accounts in the name of residents and nonresidents and to extend gold credits to natural and juridical persons and/or persons engaged in the dealing of jewelry in accor- dance with the principles of banking legislation. September 12. Turkish nationals working or resid- ing abroad would be permitted to open interest- bearing foreign currency accounts, or "super" for- eign currency accounts depending on the amount deposited. Withdrawal before the due date would be allowed, provided that the minimum balance is maintained. The interest rates applicable to the accounts denominated in deutsche mark and Swiss francs were reduced from 7.5 percent and 4 percent to 3.5 percent, respectively. Exports and Export Proceeds September 7 and November 19. The rate of surrender of foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank by commercial banks and special financial institutions, the PTT, and precious metal intermediary institu- tions was reduced to 20 percent, 18 percent, and 16 percent, respectively (they are planned to be reduced to 14 percent on June 1,1996). December 31. The maximum amount of export pro- ceeds not subject to the repatriation requirement was increased from $10,000 to $50,000 for each shipment. Capital January 27. The Central Bank modified the regula- tion on reserve requirements. By accepting the amount of foreign exchange deposit accounts subject to the reserve requirement schedule as of March 31, 1994, the reserve requirements for demand and time deposits with one-month maturity would be 18.5 percent and 15.5, respectively, percent for maturities longer than one month. For the balances exceeding the amount that was subject to the reserve require- ment in effect on March 31,1994, the ratio would be 13 percent, irrespective of their maturities. February 9. A communique was published by the Treasury with the purpose of maintaining banks' capital increases and equity capital at a specific level to meet risks and to reduce risks arising from insuffi- cient capital by taking into consideration the "capi- tal-base/risk-weighted assets, in-kind credits and liabilities" standard ratio. This would be a ratio for- mulated between banks' equity capital and assets and in-kind credits and liabilities. With another cir- cular published on the same date, banks were sub- jected to a ceiling on the credits opened for the companies in which they have shares so as to limit the risks arising from capital inadequacy. March 1. A communique regarding the standard ratio of foreign exchange net general position or cap- ital base became effective. The communique would require authorized banks to preserve a maximum ratio of 50 percent of their net general position to their capital base. March 1. Banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange were required to apply a maximum ratio of 50 percent of their net general position to their capital base. March 11. The definition of foreign currency hold- ings, claims, and debts that are to be taken into account in calculating the foreign currency liquidity ratio and foreign exchange position ratio was modi- fied also to include gold holdings and liabilities relating to gold transactions. March 11. The Central Bank issued a circular rede- fining holdings, claims, and debts that would be taken into account in calculating the foreign cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 TURKEY rency liquidity ratio and foreign exchange position ratio. Calculation of the liquidity ratio and the for- eign exchange ratio would henceforth include gold holdings and liabilities. May 2. The Foreign Investment Law No. 6224 was amended, according to which foreign investors would not be allowed to own the majority of the shares of establishments operating as monopolies throughout Turkey. Changes During 1996 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The rate of Resource Utilization Support Fund applied to credits obtained by banks from abroad was reduced from 6 percent to 4 percent, and the rate applied to imports with credits was reduced from 6 percent to zero percent. Payments for Invisibles April 1. The tax on Turkish citizens traveling abroad was abolished. Capital January 2. The restriction on the maturity period with respect to government papers denominated in foreign exchange or indexed to foreign exchange that are used to meet the liquidity requirement was abolished. January 15. A new export credit program was introduced by the Turkish Eximbank. The credits extended under this program would mature to ten years. The importing countries are classified in three groups, and OECD CIRR, government bond yields, and SDR basket rates would be applied to these loans. Premiums would be paid from the Support and Price Stabilization Fund for selected export products. Gold July 26. The Istanbul Gold Exchange began to operate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN (Position as of April 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkmenistan is the Manat. The interbank rate is determined by demand and supply, and the official rate is adjusted once a month to reflect the interbank rate. On December 31,1995, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was manat 200 per $1 and the interbank rate was manat 2,400 per $1. Exchange rates for other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dol- lar against the currencies concerned in the international market. Authorized banks may charge commissions on exchange transactions not exceed- ing 5 percent. Administration of Control Under existing laws, only the Central Bank of Turkmenistan, alone or together with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Tax Authority depending on the type of operation involved, is empowered to issue exchange control regulations. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Law, which came into effect November 1,1993, provides for free- dom to make payments and transfers for current international transactions and for nonresidents to export previously imported capital. However, this freedom is not granted at present. This law gives the Government the right to acquire foreign exchange according to the exchange arrangements established by the Central Bank. The use of foreign exchange reserves is, to a large extent, controlled by the Presi- dent of Turkmenistan; since January 1, 1996, a spe- cial Presidential Foreign Exchange Committee has had the power to restrict access to foreign exchange auctions. Foreign exchange transactions of individu- als must be made through the authorized banks, who may not themselves retain foreign exchange balances. All other transactions take place through the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlement with some Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the former Soviet Union are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Settle- ments with countries with which Turkmenistan has bilateral payments agreements are effected in accor- dance with the procedures set forth in these agree- ments.1 Transactions with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Barter transactions must take place through the state commodity exchange. Foreign Exchange Accounts Authorized banks that have received a general license from the Central Bank to deal in foreign exchange may open foreign exchange accounts for natural and juridical persons if they possess a certifi- cate of registration issued by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. All external payments orders using balances on these accounts must be approved by the Central Bank, but cash withdrawals from these accounts in foreign currency do not require central bank approval. Interest is payable on balances in these accounts in the currency of the account at a rate to be determined by the authorized bank. Imports and Exports Trade with some countries is conducted under trade agreements. All goods may be imported and exported without restriction except for those on the negative list. In addition to certain items (such as arms and narcotics, and antiquities) whose trade is prohibited for national security reasons, quantitative and price restrictions are imposed on exports of cot- ton and other raw material's to protect domestic supplies. There is a 50 percent surrender requirement on export receipts (20 percent is surrendered to the Cen- tral Bank for use in the auctions and 30 percent to the Foreign Exchange Reserve Fund at the official exchange rate); cotton receipts are exempt, and gas receipts are subject to a 70 percent requirement, which is split between the Central Bank (30 percent) and the Foreign Exchange Reserve Fund (40 per- cent). The retained earnings may be sold to the banks at the market exchange rate. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must possess valid passports to pur- chase foreign exchange for travel abroad. The maxi- mum amount of foreign exchange a person may purchase from authorized banks without approval Turkmenistan has intergovernmental bilateral agreements with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, and Ukraine, and a trilateral agreement with Armenia and Iran. 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 496 TURKMENISTAN from the Central Bank is $1,000; there is no limit on the number of times an individual may purchase foreign exchange during any given day All other payments for invisibles require approval from the Central Bank. Proceeds from invisibles not allowed retained must be sold to a commercial bank. to be Capital Both inward and outward capital transfers are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. The Law on Foreign Investments in Turkmenistan permits, in principle, foreign direct investments by juridical persons with foreign participation in all sectors. Investors are required to obtain authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations.2 For- eign investments are protected from nationalization. The law provides that, at the request of investors, the law in force at the time of registration will be applied for a period of ten years. After required tax pay- ments have been made, profits may be reinvested in Turkmenistan, held in bank accounts in national or other currencies, or transferred abroad. Gold A license is required to engage in international trade in gold. Laws regulating trade in gold are in effect. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement February 21. The exchange rate of manat 10 per $1 for gas exports was eliminated. June 1. Transactions through commercial banks were restricted to individuals; all other transactions were required to take place through the Central Bank. A limit of 5 percent was placed on commercial banks' commissions on foreign transactions. September 19. The official exchange rate was deval- ued to manat 200 per $1 from manat 75 per $1, and the commercial (cash) exchange rate was devalued to manat 500 per $1 from manat 200 per $1. November 27. Commercial banks were allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at market-determined exchange rates, based on supply and demand condi- tions, and the commercial rate of manat 500 per $1 was abolished. The limit for each transaction was established at $1,000, but there is no limit on the 2If the amount of investment is more than $500,000, the ap- proval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Turkmenistan is required. number of times an individual or an enterprise might conduct transactions in any given day. The buying of foreign exchange from customers would not require documents stating the source of income. Customers were to be given a certificate during the sale or purchase of foreign exchange, and the cus- tomer must produce his or her passport or another identification. The maximum commission allowed to be charged during the sale or purchase of foreign exchange was set at 5 percent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles June 1. The maximum amount of foreign exchange that a person may purchase from the authorized banks without approval from the Central Bank was reduced to manat 200 from manat 500 for most pur- poses other than business travel, for which the allowance remained unchanged. July 26. Provision of foreign exchange without approval by the Central Bank was withdrawn for tourist travel. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The official exchange rate was unified at the level of the exchange rate determined by banks. February 1. The official rate was adjusted to market developments. February 26. A formal multiple exchange rate sys- tem was reintroduced when the official rate was sub- stantially revalued. April 10. The official rate was again set at the mar- ket rate and the authorities announced that hence- forth the official rate would be adjusted to the market rate that results from foreign exchange auc- tions held twice a month. Imports and Exports January 1. The surrender requirements were modi- fied whereby 20 percent of proceeds were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank for use in for- eign exchange auctions and 30 percent to the Foreign Exchange Reserve Fund at the unified exchange rate, compared to the earlier arrangement of 50 percent surrender to the Foreign Exchange Reserve Fund at the official exchange rate. For oil and gas exports, the surrender requirement was raised to 70 percent from 60 percent, split between the Central Bank (30 per- cent) and the Foreign Exchange Reserve Fund (40 percent). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling, the external value of which is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. Certain transac- tions may be effected in foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. On December 31, 1995, the buying and selling rates in the interbank foreign exchange market were U Sh 1,003 and U Sh 1,016, respectively, per $1. Authorized banks may deal forward with custom- ers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and certain other convertible currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may impose a service charge of not more than 1 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. Uganda accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on April 5,1994. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange con- trols on behalf of the Minister of Finance but has delegated a broad range of exchange control respon- sibilities to authorized banks and exchange bureaus. Import and export control regulations are adminis- tered by the Ministry of Commerce, which has pow- ers to prohibit imports and exports. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda settles accounts in U.S. dol- lars with the member countries of the Common Mar- ket of Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) for Eastern and Southern African States through the COMESA clearinghouse. Authorized payments, including payments for imports by residents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries, may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an external account in Uganda or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Uganda maintains bilateral clearing arrangements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire, but these are inoperative. Inoperative bilateral trade and pay- ments agreements are also maintained with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. External Accounts Accounts in foreign exchange held by persons with diplomatic status are designated external accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Uganda and with transfers from other external accounts or any other external source. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other external accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan residents who are exporters of goods who are earning commissions, consulting fees, rent, and other incomes in foreign exchange may operate foreign exchange accounts with com- mercial banks in Uganda. Payments made from these accounts are subject to the same regulations as those governing sales of foreign exchange in the for- eign exchange bureaus. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are controlled through the import- licensing system. Foreign exchange sales to various ministries and departments must be backed by doc- uments showing the approval of the Central Tender Board. Importers are provided with a renewable certifi- cate, which is valid for six months and which per- mits them to import a broad range of goods not on the negative list. The certificate does not prescribe the importation of a specific good. The importation of pornographic materials, beer, and soft drinks is prohibited. Imports of firearms and ammunition require special permission. Private sector importers may purchase foreign exchange in the interbank market or in foreign exchange bureaus to pay for imports without restriction. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles, except for debt-service payments, are financed through the interbank foreign exchange market. With the permission of the Director of Exchange Control of the Bank of Uganda, residents of Uganda may transfer abroad profits, fees, and sav- 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 UGANDA ings. The following limits apply to foreign exchange that may be purchased in the interbank market or in the foreign exchange bureaus without referring to the Bank of Uganda: (1) travel, $4,000 a trip; (2) medical treatment, $20,000 a person to be transferred through a bank with supporting documents; and (3) educa- tion, $25,000 a person a year. Dividends may be transferred through the inter- bank market without restriction and without refer- ence to the Bank of Uganda. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require certificates from the Ministry of Commerce and Trade, which are valid for six months and are renewable; they may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Exporters may retain proceeds from exports and sell them in the interbank foreign exchange market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be sold in the for- eign exchange interbank market. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency banknotes and trav- eler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individ- ual exchange control approval. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas loans by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on nonguaran- teed overseas loans by resident companies or indi- viduals. Foreign investment in Uganda is permitted with or without government participation. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Investment Code of 1991. In normal circumstances, approved status is given freely. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, pro- vided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remitta- ble, as are the proceeds on resale in most cases. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. Only monetary authorities and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Mines. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Ukraine is the Ukrainian Karbovanets. The official exchange rates of the karbovanets against the U.S. dollar, the deut- sche mark, the Russian ruble, the Belarussian rubel, and on occasion other major currencies are deter- mined through competitive bidding of commercial banks at daily auctions conducted by the National Bank of Ukraine.1 The official rates for all other con- vertible currencies, when not auctioned, are deter- mined daily on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned in the interna- tional market. The official rate applies to all external transactions. The National Bank is frequently a major supplier of the U.S. dollar in the auctions, using the funds that it has previously purchased from exporters at earlier auctions. The National Bank may also participate in the auctions to replen- ish its reserves, depending on supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. Commercial banks may participate in the auctions without limi- tation provided they hold contracts for import pay- ments; they may not participate in the auction on their own behalf. However, since March 1995, legal restrictions prohibiting interbank transactions in deutsche mark, Russian rubles, and U.S. dollars were removed. Interbank transactions are now per- mitted to take place within a ±5 percent spread (including fees, charges, and commissions) of the auction exchange rate and, by the end of 1995, the volume of currency trading on the interbank market had grown to exceed that in the exchange auctions. The exchange rate for cash transactions for individu- als at commercial banks is freely determined and quoted on a daily basis by commercial banks; the spread between the selling and buying rates for such transactions, however, must not exceed 2.5 percent. On December 29, 1995, the official rate for the U.S. dollar was Krb 179,400 per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk 1 Auctions for U.S. dollars and Russian rubles are held daily, and those for other currencies, less frequently; for example, deut- sche mark are auctioned twice a week. The National Bank has also begun auctioning French francs and pounds sterling once a week. Add i t ional foreign exchange auction centers have also been opened; previously, auctions were held only in Kiev. operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank. Commercial banks must be licensed by the National Bank to engage in foreign exchange trans- actions. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Restrictions on payments and the provision of financial services to the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia/Montenegro) were lifted in November 1995. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Payments to and receipts from countries with which Ukraine has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. At the end of 1995, Ukraine maintained bilateral trade (and in some cases, payments) agreements with Bulgaria, China, Hungary, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Mongolia. Trade with all other countries is set- tled in convertible currencies. Nonbarter trade with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union is now settled mainly in convertible currencies, especially the U.S. dollar. Some trade is also conducted on a barter basis. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents may open and oper- ate foreign currency deposits under certain condi- tions. The opening and operation of accounts in domestic currency by nonresidents is restricted. Imports and Exports Licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations are required for import transac- tions.2 There are no quantitative restrictions on imports; nontariff barriers were limited to the stan- dard rules that imported goods must meet national 2A license fee of 0.1 percent of the total amount exported or im- ported is levied on all importers. 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 UKRAINE safety and environmental standards. The customs tariff regime contains three categories of duty rates, with the average tariff rate, on a trade-weighted basis, being about 5 percent. The first category (pre- ferred duty rates) applies to goods entering from countries that belong, with Ukraine, to customs unions; those imported from developing countries (agricultural and industrial goods); and those imported under intergovernmental preferential agreements. The rate of duty for these goods, except for tobacco and alcohol products, is zero. The second category (concessional duty rates) applies to goods imported from countries that have entered into a most-favored-nation arrangement with Ukraine and to goods imported from developing countries that are not covered under the first category. The average rate in this category is 6 percent. The third category applies to goods imported from all other countries; the average rate in this category is 12 percent. An import duty, equivalent to approximately 15 percent on an ad valorem basis, is imposed on imports of coal and refined oil products. A value-added tax at the rate of 28 percent is levied on all imported goods. Most goods are exported freely. Exports of grain, ferrous and nonferrous scrap, cast iron, and coal are subject to voluntary export restraint under interna- tional agreements. The system of state contracts and orders for contracts has been abolished, and it exists only for fulfilling intergovernmental barter agree- ments for gas imports. Exports of grain must be undertaken through the agricultural commodity exchange.3 Certain goods falling under the "special export regime" are subject to quotas and licenses.4 A system of "export contract preregistration" is lim- ited to goods subject to, or potentially subject to, vol- untary export restraints or antidumping actions. A system of "minimum indicative prices" for a wide range of export products, covering as much as one- half of all Ukraine exports, is in operation to allay antidumping actions abroad. The prices, published monthly, are intended to provide information to Ukrainian exporters, but in the past, they have reportedly been interpreted frequently as manda- tory minimum export prices by customs officials. Firms must repatriate all of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports to domestic commercial bank accounts within 30 days of shipment, and sell, within 5 days of repatriation, 50 percent of the for- 3Access to the commodity exchange, however, is restricted to those farmers who have fulfilled their obligations under the pre- paid portion of the state contract. 4The licenses required for coal, scrap of precious metals, and al- coholic spirits are, however, freely provided to exporters, except in the case of precious metals. eign currency export proceeds. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports by foreign firms are exempt from the surrender requirements. Forty percent of foreign exchange proceeds must be sold at the auc- tions, and the remaining 10 percent must be sold to the National Bank at the official exchange rate. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Exporters of services, such as the tourist industry, are also subject to the surrender requirement. Exemptions from these repatriation and surrender requirements are limited to the following: (1) a few enterprises engaging in international operations, such as the international airline company, are not required to repatriate their foreign exchange earn- ings; (2) individuals who provide services to nonres- idents are not required to hold foreign exchange earnings in domestic foreign currency accounts or surrender them to the Government or the National Bank; (3) exporters who need to service external debt obligations that have been approved by the National Bank, if the maturity exceeds 90 days, may retain foreign exchange needed for external debt- service obligations before surrendering proceeds; and (4) intermediary firms in the foreign trade sector are required to surrender 50 percent of their profits in foreign exchange rather than 50 percent of reve- nues in foreign exchange. Residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange of up to $400 a trip for tourist travel abroad.5 Foreign exchange for the purpose of medi- cal treatment is made available only if the medical treatment is considered urgent. Residents may export foreign banknotes up to $400; and with the permission of authorized banks, they may export up to $2,000, and up to $10,000 with the permission of the National Bank. The Law on Foreign Investment guarantees that foreign investors may, after paying taxes and fees, transfer abroad without restriction dividends, prof- its, and other foreign exchange assets obtained legally in connection with their investments. Capital The contracting of external loans with maturities exceeding 90 days must be approved by the National Bank. The National Bank does not guaran- tee any loan. Lending to foreign borrowers also requires permission from the National Bank. 5Where Ukrainian residents hold deposits in foreign currencies, they may, subject to some limitations, use such deposits to pay for tourist travel abroad in addition to the $400 limit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 501 Foreign investments in Ukraine are governed by the Law on Foreign Economic Activity of April 16, 1991; the Law on Income Tax for Companies and Organizations of February 21,1992; the Law on For- eign Investment of March 3,1992; and the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Foreign Investment Regimes of May 20,1993.6 Foreign investments in most types of business are permitted, although licenses are required in some cases. A license from the Ministry of Finance is required for investments in insurance and businesses engaged in intermediation activities. A license from the National Bank is required for investments in the banking sector. In addition, con- cessions from the Council of Ministers are required for investments in the mining sector; such conces- sions may be for a maximum of 49 years. Foreign investment in Ukraine must be made in convertible currency or in kind. The Russian ruble is not regarded as convertible currency for this purpose. Tax relief is granted to enterprises established with foreign capital investments. The nature of the relief depends on the activity of the enterprise or organization, its turnover, and the proportion of for- eign equity capital ownership. The basic profit tax rate is 18 percent, although special tax rates apply in certain sectors. For joint ventures whose foreign equity capital ownership is less than 20 percent, the basic tax rate is also 18 percent. Firms other than those engaged in trading and intermediating activi- ties are exempt from the profit tax for five years from the first year in which profit is recorded; thereafter, the profit tax rate is reduced by 50 percent from the rates applicable to domestic enterprises. Moreover, they are granted a further five-year tax exemption from any new taxes imposed in the future. Trading firms are exempt from the profit tax for the first three years, and intermediating firms for the first two years, from the first year in which profit is recorded; thereafter, the profit tax rate is reduced by 30 percent from the applicable tax rate. In cases where the for- eign equity capital ownership is 100 percent, taxable profits may be reduced by the amount of capital 6The State Program for Attraction of Foreign Investment of De- cember 17, 1993, came into force on March 1, 1994. The program provides foreign investors with investment incentives on tax, in- surance, credit, and depreciation for 32 branches of the Ukra in ian economy. actually invested in Ukraine; additional relief may be granted for investments in priority sectors or in special economic zones. Gold The National Bank grants permission to commer- cial banks to export and import gold and other mon- etary metals. Other residents are required to obtain a license from the Ministry of Finance to deal in pre- cious metals and stones. Permission to export pre- cious metals and precious stones is granted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 20. Legal restrictions prohibiting interbank transactions in deutsche mark were eliminated. March 30. Legal restrictions prohibiting interbank transactions in U.S. dollars and in Russian rubles were eliminated. March 30. Interbank transactions were permitted to take place within a spread of ±5 percent (includ- ing fees, charges, and commissions) of the auction exchange rate. In addition, the frequency of foreign exchange auctions was increased to three times a week from two. March 30. The frequency of foreign exchange auc- tions was increased to daily auctions and additional foreign exchange auction centers outside Kiev were opened. Administration of Control November 22. Restrictions on payments and the provision of financial services to the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were lifted. Imports and Exports January 1. Import duties equivalent to about 15 percent on an ad valorem basis were imposed on coal and refined oil products. January 1. Export quotas were abolished, except for grain and goods subject to voluntary export restraint or other international agreements. Septembers. The export quota on grain was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the official rate. Since November 1980, the U.A.E. dirham has maintained an unchanged relationship with the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention cur- rency. The United Arab Emirates Central Bank pub- lishes buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On December 31,1995, the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.673 and Dh 3.669, respec- tively, per $1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange transac- tions, including forward contracts related to com- mercial and financial transactions, at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. The Central Bank maintains a swap facility, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of $20 million outstanding for one- month and three-month swaps and $10 million out- standing for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of $3 million a day on purchases by each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of for- ward transactions for commercial purposes. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The United Arab Emirates accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 13,1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration requirements for inward or outward transfers. There is no regime of export and import licensing. lrThe seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fu ja irah. All settlements with Israel are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts Distinction is drawn between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Nonresi- dent accounts consist of those held with commercial banks on behalf of U.A.E. citizens working abroad; all foreigners working in the United Arab Emirates but who do not have residency; all embassies and diplomatic agencies in the country; all trade and financial companies, banks, and industrial compa- nies incorporated outside the United Arab Emirates that have no local branches; and branches of local institutions in foreign countries. Imports and Import Payments In February 1995, the World Trade Organization accepted the United Arab Emirates as a member. The United Arab Emirates joined the General Agree- ments on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in March 1994. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons, but virtually all other commodities may be freely imported without an individual import permit. However, only licensed parties can enter the import trade, and importers may import only the commodities specified in their license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of per- mitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs duty of 4 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports originating from member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are not subject to customs duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported or re- exported freely and without an export license to any other destination. Each Emirate establishes its own export regula- tions. The proceeds from exports need not be repa- 502 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 503 triated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, with the exception of payments to Israel, which are prohibited. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in non- banking operations (as specified in Article 90 of the Central Bank Act of 1980) and from owning real estate except for the purpose of carrying on business and for accommodation. Under the United Arab Emirates Company Law (Law No. 8 of 1984), at least 51 percent of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the other member countries of the GCC are permit- ted to hold (1) up to 75 percent of the equity of com- panies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and construction sectors, and in the consultancy areas (Law No. 2 of 1984); and (2) up to 100 percent of the equity of companies in the hotel industry. Further- more, nationals of the other member countries of the GCC are permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law of 1984. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the Central Bank equal to 30 percent of their placements with, or lend- ing to, nonresident banks in dirhams with a remain- ing life of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20 percent. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but only licensed parties may import gold for trade purposes. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty, but jewelry is not. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The U.K. authorities do not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange mar- kets. However, the authorities may intervene at their discretion to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate.1 On December 31, 1995, the closing buying and selling rates for the pound sterling against the U.S. dollar in foreign exchange markets in London as observed by the Bank of England were $1.5500 and $1.5510, respectively, per £1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresi- dents in foreign notes and coins at free market exchange rates. The United Kingdom accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Department of Trade and Industry, but other depart- ments also issue licenses in specialized fields. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the United Kingdom notified the IMF on July 26, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro). These sanctions were suspended on November 22, 1995, pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022. The United Kingdom also notified the IMF on September 22, 1994 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 883 and 841 (1993), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Libyan Arab Jamahir- iya and Haiti. Sanctions against the latter were lifted on October 16,1994, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 944. Restrictions against Iraq, as reported to the IMF on August 13,1990, con- tinue to be enforced. Since the passing of UN Secu- rity Council Resolution No. 942 in October 1994, there have been sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are admitted to the United Kingdom under an open general import license. The remain- ing restrictions concern textiles and clothing under the Multifiber Arrangement (MEA) or other Euro- pean Union (EU) bilateral agreements, certain steel products from Russia and Ukraine that are subject to EU-wide voluntary restraint agreements, autono- mous EU-wide restrictions on certain steel products from Kazakstan, and EU-wide quotas on seven cate- gories of goods originating in China. Imports of cars from Japan are also subject to restraint under a sepa- rate agreement (The Elements of Consensus) between the EU and the Japanese Government. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products, other than butter and cheese, are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autono- mously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EU regulations. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, that is, without limit as to quantity or value. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control, and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds.2 Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credits Guarantee Department, exporters bidding for major capital projects in Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, or U.S. dol- lars, when the U.K. element of the contract is for the !The United Kingdom suspended intervention obligations with respect to the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European monetary system (EMS) on September 16,1992. 2Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of na- tional security, animal welfare, national heritage, and in accor- dance with international agreements. 504 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 505 equivalent of at least £10 million, may obtain cover against exchange rate fluctuations between the sub- mission of their bid and the awarding of the contract. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and pro- ceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank- notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no restrictions or exchange control requirements on capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Residents and nonresidents may freely transfer assets to and from the United Kingdom. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made by nonresidents in the United Kingdom or by residents abroad. Investments involving the takeover of existing U.K. companies may be subject to merger control under the Fair Trading Act of 1973. It is for the Secretary of State to decide whether or not qualifying merges should be referred to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC) for further investigation. U.K. and foreign mergers are treated the same under U.K. merger control proce- dures. Decisions about whether or not to refer merg- ers for further investigation are made primarily where there are competition concerns. If the MMC finds that the merger operates against the public interest, the Secretary of State may prohibit the merger or impose conditions. The Secretary of State Department of Trade and Industry also has the power, under the Industry Act of 1975, to prohibit a proposed transfer of an important U.K. manufactur- ing undertaking to a nonresident when the transfer is considered to be contrary to the interests of the United Kingdom or a substantial part of it. This power has never been used. There are no restrictions or formalities on transactions in sterling or foreign currency securities. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling, sub- ject to prudential guidelines issued by the Bank of England concerning the limitation of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot lia- bilities in foreign currencies (that is, the net amount of foreign currency resources fund ing sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.35 percent non-interest-bearing deposit requirement with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the bank. There is currently no special deposit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to con- trol in the United Kingdom. Gold sovereigns and Britannias are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The exportation of gold in manufac- tured form over 50 years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Industry. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis dur- ing 1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of May 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of supply and demand in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter disorderly conditions in the exchange markets or when otherwise deemed appropriate. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on December 10,1946. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers eco- nomic sanction programs involving direct or indirect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iraq, the Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya, designated Middle East terror- ists and designated narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro), the areas of Bosnia and Herzegov- ina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces, and the UN- protected areas of Croatia,1 as specified respectively under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Libyan Sanc- tions Regulations, the Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro) Sanctions Regulations, and the Terrorism Sanctions Regulations and Executive Order 12978 of October 1995. The Treasury also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries and for assets of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) blocked prior to December 27, 1995, and assets of the Bosnian Serb forces and authorities. The Department of the Treasury regulates the trade of goods and services, blocked prior to May 10, 1996, between the United States and the Islamic Republic of Iran under the Iranian Transactions Reg- ulations and restricts the sale or supply of arms and petroleum products, regardless of origin, to UNITA Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro) were suspended on Janua ry 16,1996 and sanctions against the Bosnian Serbs were suspended on May 10,1996. (otherwise known as Armed Forces for the Libera- tion of Angola) and to the territory of Angola under the UNITA (Angola) Sanctions Regulations. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas and tariff rate quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established or allocated by other agencies. The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements, chaired by the Department of Commerce and representing other agencies, decides when to request consultation with exporting countries to limit imports on the basis of the guidelines of the World Trade Organiza- tion (WTO) Agreement on Textiles and Clothing and bilateral restraint agreements. For items subject to export control—other than munitions items and items qualified below—the Department of Com- merce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed under Treasury Department regulations on transactions involving the govern- ment or nationals of Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Government of Libya, the Government of Iraq, designated Middle East terror- ists and designated narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia, entities located in or controlled from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro), as well as trade with, and certain assets of, the Islamic Republic of Iran and on prohibited exports to UNITA or to the territory of Angola. Transfers of funds are also prohibited to persons in Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro), or to or for the benefit of entities, wherever located, owned or controlled by entities in the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions, or to or through Libyan financial institutions or to entities owned or controlled by the Government of Libya. Certain payments to Cuba and to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea related to authorized travel are permitted, as are certain payments in con- nection with travel to and in the United States by nationals of these countries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the United States notified the Fund on June 26, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and trans- fers for current international transactions in respect 506 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 507 of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro). Imports and Import Payments The importation of goods and services originating in Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by the Bosnian Serb forces and the UN-protected areas of Croatia is prohibited unless specifically authorized. Import quotas imposed under the authority of Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1993, as amended (including on cotton of specified staple lengths, certain cotton waste and products, certain dairy products, peanuts, and certain prod- ucts containing sugar), were converted to tariff rate quotas as a result of the Uruguay Round. These quo- tas are allocated on a country-of-origin basis, except those for peanuts, certain cotton products, butter and certain other dairy products, and certain prod- ucts containing sugar. Quotas may be imposed on certain types of meat under conditions set forth in the Meat Import Act of 1979. Most dairy products that are subject to tariff rate quotas are also subject to import licensing. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), which provided for duty-free treatment for approxi- mately 4,400 items from 146 beneficiary developing countries and had been in operation since January 1976, expired July 31,1995. Certain benefits that had been extended to Thailand under the GSP and were removed in 1989 were reinstated in August 1995. Under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act, 24 countries and entities2 were designated to receive preferential tariff treatment on specified imports. The North American Free-Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which built on the 1989 U.S. Canadian Free Trade Agreement (CFTA), came into force on January 1, 1994. NAFTA incorporates some provi- sions of CFTA by reference, most importantly CFTA's bilateral tariff phaseout schedule. Upon NAFTA's entry into force, half of NAFTA members' exports to Mexico became eligible for duty-free treatment. Remaining Mexican tariffs on NAFTA 2Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Repub- lic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles, Nicaragua, Panama, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. members' goods are scheduled for elimination over 5-10- or 15-year periods. The Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (ATC) entered into force on January 1, 1995, superseding the Multifiber Arrangement. The ATC provided for the gradual and complete integration of apparel and textile products into the WTO regime over a ten-year transition period, and the gradual phaseout of quan- titative restrictions on textile and apparel exports to the United States. "Integrated products" are removed from the scope of the ATC's special safe- guard mechanism and any applicable quotas are eliminated. Integration takes place in four stages: in 1995, 16 percent (by volume) of textile and apparel trade was integrated; at the beginning of year four and year seven an additional 17 and 18 percent, respectively, will be integrated; and after year ten, all remaining products will be integrated. With regard to the phasing out of quotas, the vast majority of quotas affecting imports to the United States will be subject to automatic "growth-on-growth" liberaliza- tion each year of the transition period. For example, in 1995, the annual quota growth rate was increased by 16 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds Ammunition may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as well as on instruments and related technical data to all coun- tries, except other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. With the exception of publications and other information materials, personal baggage, and simi- lar items, all exports from the United States to Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jama- hiriya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro), those areas of Bosnia and Herzego- vina controlled by the Bosnian Serb forces, and the UN-protected areas of Croatia are prohibited unless licensed by the Department of Commerce and /or the Treasury Department. The Treasury Department administers controls on exports from third countries to Cuba, and to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, of goods of U.S. or foreign origin by U.S. nationals or by foreign firms that are owned or con- trolled by U.S. nationals, and on certain third-coun- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 508 UNITED STATES try exports by U.S. nationals to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Third-country exports by U.S. nationals to Iraq; and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro), and exports by U.S. nationals of arms and petroleum products, regardless of origin, to UNITA or to the territory of Angola, other than through certain designated points of entry, are also prohibited. Restrictions on exports of certain mili- tary equipment to South Africa remain in effect along with a munitions embargo. Exports to all other countries, except Canada, of designated strategic materials and equipment require validated licenses from the Department of Commerce. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction require a Trea- sury Department license to participate in offshore transactions in strategic goods involving certain countries, regardless of the origin of the goods. For many commodities being exported to countries other than the Islamic State of Afghanistan, former member countries of the Council for Mutual Eco- nomic Assistance (CMEA), Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet- nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), distribution licenses may be obtained from the Commerce Department to cover multiple shipments. Under the Export Administration Act of 1979, amended in 1985, the President can suspend the exportation of nonagricultural goods for reasons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although efforts are made to minimize the use of such authority. Export suspen- sion of agricultural commodities may not be imposed for reasons of short supply, foreign policy, or national security unless a national emergency is declared. For agricultural commodities such as wheat, flour, corn, sorghum, rice, soybeans and soy- bean products, and cotton, exporting companies are required to participate in a reporting system designed to improve market information and allow for more orderly exporting. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the governments or nationals of Cuba, and the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, or to or for the accounts of the governments and government- controlled entities worldwide, of Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), the military and civilian authorities in those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces, designated Mid- dle East terrorists, designated narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia, and certain payments relating to the Islamic Republic of Iran.3 Transfers of funds to persons in Iraq and in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro) are prohibited. Effective December 19,1991, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya was pro- hibited from clearing funds involving third coun- tries through U.S. banks. Payments and transfers to entities located in or controlled from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) or those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces are prohibited. Remit- tances of up to $1,000 to Cuba are allowed to aid a relative's emigration from Cuba to the United States. Receipts of funds from Cuba and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are subject to blocking, as are payments involving a governmental interest from Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro); payments involving an interest of an entity or undertaking in or controlled from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro); and payments involving designated Middle East terror- ists, designated narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia, or those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bosnia Serb forces. Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio investment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Investments involv- ing ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transac- tions with, or involving, Cuba, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jama- 3Certain payments and transfers to the Government of the Is- lamic Republic of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled enti- ties involving obligations contracted before January 19,1981 are subject to restrictions, as are payments for goods or services im- ported from the Islamic Republic of Iran. On May 6,1995, a much more comprehensive trade and investment embargo with respect to Iran became effective; although funds are not blocked under the new program, trade in goods and services is prohibited and the transfers of funds to Iran are generally prohibited as an expor- tation of services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 509 hiriya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro), those areas of Bosnia and Herzego- vina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces, designated Middle East terrorists, and designated narcotics traf- fickers centered in Colombia. The 1988 Omnibus Trade Act contained a provi- sion authorizing the President to suspend or pro- hibit foreign acquisitions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States (the Exon-Florio Amendment) if the President determines that the foreign investor might take action that would threaten to impair national security and if existing laws, except the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Exon-Florio provision itself, are not, in the Presi- dent's judgment, adequate or appropriate to protect national security. Bilateral investment agreements were signed in January 1995 with Albania and Latvia. The Johnson Act, 18 U.S.C. 955, prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. Govern- ment. The act does not apply to those foreign gov- ernments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. There is no restriction on the amount of cash or negotiable instruments that may be brought into or taken out of the United States; however, there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the United States when they are carrying more than $10,000 in cash or negotiable instruments (as well as corresponding reporting requirements for shipments of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U.S. agricultural land by foreign nationals or by U.S. corporations in which foreign owners have a significant interest (at least 10 percent) or substantial control must be reported to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Cer- tain states in the United States impose varying restrictions on foreign nationals' purchases of land within their borders. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to quantitative limitations, but banks are subject to prudential oversight. U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, as well as domestic banks, may be subject to reserve requirements by the Federal Reserve system. U.S. chartered depository institutions, U.S. offices of Edge Act and Agreement Corporations,4 and U.S. 4These are defined as domestically chartered corporations au- thorized to engage in international banking and f inanc ial operations. branches and agencies of foreign banks are allowed to establish international banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), from other IBFs, or from the insti- tution establishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve requirements under Regulation D. For nonbank foreign residents, the minimum maturity or notice requirement is two business days, and the minimum transaction amount is $100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity estab- lishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance the operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its establishing entity in the United States are subject to Eurocurrency reserve requirements (currently set at zero percent) in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the entity's foreign branches. A number of individual states (but not the federal Government) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from Federal Deposit Insur- ance Corporation insurance coverage and assess- ments. U.S. banks are permitted to accept foreign currency deposits. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) involving Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bos- nian Serb forces, and the UN-protected areas of Croatia. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coins, with the same exceptions. Treasury Department licensing for importers, exporters, pro- ducers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same country exceptions. Gold producers may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold, but not counterfeit gold coins, may be freely imported, except from the countries mentioned above. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restrictions but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coins. All forms of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 UNITED STATES gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control January 24. The President issued Executive Order 12947, blocking all property and interests in prop- erty of foreign terrorists that disrupt the Middle East peace process. October 21. The President issued Executive Order 12978, blocking all property and interests in prop- erty of significant foreign narcotics traffickers cen- tered in Colombia. Imports and Import Payments March 16. A Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) was signed with Morocco. July 15. The GSP program expired. August 1. Certain benefits that had been extended to Thailand under the GSP and subsequently removed in 1989 were reinstated. Capital January 13. Bilateral investment treaties were signed with Albania and Latvia. July 3. A bilateral investment treaty was signed with Nicaragua. Changes During 1996 Administration of Control January 1. The ATC entered into force. February 26. The United States and China reached agreement on intellectual property rights enforce- ment. Tariffs were suspended on effective date. January 16. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were suspended. May 10. Sanctions against the Bosnian Serbs were suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan Peso. The Central Bank of Uruguay intervenes to ensure that the exchange rate will remain within the higher and lower limits of the exchange rate band (cur- rently 7 percent) and allows market rates to float freely within these limits. The Central Bank periodi- cally announces its intervention buying and selling rates. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling interbank rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Ur$7.111 and Ur$7.113, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on the cross rate relationship between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. Purchases of foreign exchange by public sector institutions are subject to a tax of 2 percent; central bank and official banks' purchases are exempted from the tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the state-owned Bank of the Republic, the Mortgage Bank, the private commercial banks, and financial and exchange houses. Uruguay accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on May 2,1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, financial houses, exchange houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market, pro- vided this does not become a customary business. Exchange houses also must be authorized by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agreements may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other coun- tries. There is a similar arrangement with Cuba, but settlements are effected in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration. The regis- trations are generally valid for 180 days, and goods must be cleared through customs during this period. The Treaty of Asuncion, signed in 1991 by Argen- tina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay, created the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR); under the treaty, a customs union began to operate on January 1, 1995. The most important instrument of the customs union is the common external tariff (CET), which consists of the tariffs and a new nomen- clature (the Nomenclatura Arancelaria MERCOSUR). There are 11 different tariff levels, ranging from zero to 20 percent. Regionally produced capital goods and telecommunications equipment are subject to a tariff of 14 percent and 16 percent, respectively. The parties to MERCOSUR are allowed to exempt up to 300 goods from the CET until the year 2001 (in the case of Paraguay, the number is 399). The tariff rates on these exempted goods are to converge linearly and automatically to the CET by 2001. Uruguay and Paraguay are allowed to converge in the same way to the CET in respect of capital goods and telecom- munications equipment until the year 2006, from the zero to 6 percent tariff prior to January 1995. Buses and trucks are subject to a tariff of 20 percent, to which Uruguay may converge by the year 2006. The CET for cars and sugar is still under negotiation. Except for a precise number of items, which are included in the Regimen de Adecuacion, there are no remaining import duties among MERCOSUR countries. The MERCOSUR treaty allowed Uruguay 950 exemp- tions to zero-tariff trade during 1995; some prod- ucts —such as pharmaceuticals, plastics, automobile parts, textiles, and dairy products —may continue to be exempted until the end of 1999. Duties on the imports of wheat, tires, paper, glass, sugar, textiles, and apparel are computed on the basis of "minimum export prices" (precios mfnimos de exportation), which, in addition, provide the basis for a sliding surcharge to be paid by the importer, repre- senting the difference between the minimum export 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 URUGUAY and the declared c.i.f. import price. Those minimum export prices are set by government decree but are established transitorily by a decision of the Ministry of Finance. Imports of used cars are prohibited. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for invisi- bles or the exportation of foreign or domestic bank- notes. Royalties transferred to a country with no tax- ation treaty with Uruguay have to pay a tax of 30 percent; dividends and interests are exempted. Exports and Export Proceeds From time to time, and for special reasons (for example, stock position, protection, or sanitary con- siderations), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special requirements. A simple export doc- ument was introduced in mid-1995 to rationalize the trade system. Exports of dry, salted, and pickled hides are sub- ject to an export tax at the rate of 5 percent. Access to the market conditions established by the bilateral trade agreements with Argentina (CAUCE) and Brazil (PEC), which allow Uruguay to export limited amounts of specific goods with preferential treatment, will be maintained until the year 2001, within the framework of MERCOSUR. Proceeds from Invisibles Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relating to investments registered under the Foreign Investment Law. The amortization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be transferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9 in Uruguay or abroad. Gold for indus- trial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exportation, importation, and trading of goods. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariffs on most imports from member countries of MERCOSUR were eliminated and the CET, ranging from zero to 20 percent (with 11 different positions), was applied to most products from non- MERCOSUR countries. There are no surrender requirements on the pro- ceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the importation of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. A simple export document was introduced to rationalize the trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN (Position as of April 30,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Uzbekistan is the Sum. The official exchange rate is determined daily on the basis of the weighted average of exchange rates at which authorized banks purchase and sell foreign exchange in the interbank market on days when the rate is not determined in the twice-weekly auction. Exchange rates for currencies not traded at the auction are determined from cross rates in the international market. On December 31, 1995, the official rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Uzbekistan was Sum 35.5 per $1. Foreign exchange transactions are conducted by authorized banks, which may not charge a commission in excess of 1 percent of the amount of foreign currency bought or sold, for noncash foreign exchange trans- actions. Individuals buy and sell foreign exchange cash through exchange bureaus at an exchange rate established by authorized banks on the basis of sup- ply and demand for foreign currency. A commission in sum is collected when selling foreign currency notes. Retail traders and enterprises are required to obtain a patent for a nominal fee of $10 to gain access to the auction in order to purchase foreign exchange for the payment of imports of consumer goods and related services. The priority list of consumer goods and sectorial activities used with respect to the pat- ents system was abolished in October 1995. On December 5,1995, the maximum spread between the cash and official exchange rates was set at 20 per- cent. Since April 1996, the spread has not exceeded 3 percent. As of October 15,1994, all domestic payments and settlements must be effected in sum. Authorized banks are permitted to maintain an overall open for- eign exchange position of up to 20 percent of statu- tory capital. Administration of Control The authority for the control of foreign exchange transactions is vested with the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and the State Tax Committee of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agree- ments.1 Transactions with other countries are settled in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents may open and maintain accounts in for- eign currency with an authorized bank in Uzbeki- stan. The Central Bank may, on a case-by-case basis, permit residents to open and maintain accounts in foreign currency with banks outside of Uzbekistan. Nonresidents may open and maintain accounts in sum and /or in foreign currency with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with any amount of sum or foreign currency that has been lawfully acquired by nonresidents. Withdrawals from these accounts are unrestricted. Imports and Exports A negative import list was introduced in July 1995 that included publications, manuscripts, video and audio material, and photographs aimed at under- mining state and social order or promoting war, vio- lence, nationalism, and racism, as well as pornographic material. A system of import duties was reintroduced beginning July 1995. The new import tariff schedule, which took effect from Octo- ber 1,1995, imposes rates ranging from 5 percent to 100 percent on 61 products or product groups with most items in the categories of 5 percent, 10 percent, and 20 percent (47 items). The rate of 100 percent applies to used motor vehicles only. Export tariffs were modified also with effect from October 1. The new export tariff schedule imposes rates ranging from 5 percent to 100 percent on 102 products or product groups, with most items in the categories of 10 percent, 20 percent, or 50 percent (70 items). Proceeds from exports in convertible currencies are subject to a 30 percent surrender requirement, and receipts from transactions with the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are subject to a 15 percent surrender requirement. Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payments agreements with Armenia, Belarus, China, Estonia, India, Indonesia, Islamic Re- public of Iran, Kazakstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 514 UZBEKISTAN The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations is responsible for negotiating trade agreements with nontraditional trading partners as well as those agreements denominated in hard currency with tra- ditional trading partners, and for implementing for- eign trade agreements and external trade policy through the issuance of licenses and export quotas. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations must register and review all contracts and agreements by entities requiring licenses for a limited number of goods. Effective July 1995, nonferrous metals, crude oil, gas condensate, gasoline, diesel fuel, lint and cot- ton fiber, and ferrous metals are subject to export licensing in the amount of established quotas. There is a system of automatic licensing for cotton exports. There are also certain specific goods and services (such as medicines, weapons, precious metals, ura- nium and other radioactive substances, foreign motion pictures and videos, and research data) that require export and import licenses from the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. Quotas do not apply to these goods or services, and licensing require- ments are consistent with international procedures. A license is required for each contract. Exports of 13 types of goods, including flour and cereals from state resources, livestock and poultry, meat, dry milk, tea, sugar, ethylene alcohol, and antique items, are prohibited. At present, Uzbekistan has three types of trade agreements. The first category includes agreements with countries other than the Baltic countries, Rus- sia, and countries of the former Soviet Union that focus only on defining trade regimes (tariffs, duties, etc.). In these agreements, there are no indicative lists of goods, and trade is generally conducted in freely convertible currencies. The second category of trade agreements is based upon convertible curren- cies and a list of indicative goods that the country is selling. The delivery of such goods is not compul- sory, because governments do not agree to supply such goods. Commercial enterprises carry out such transactions through contracts. Agreements in this category are those with the Baltic countries, Belarus, Armenia, and until 1994, Eastern European coun- tries (which are currently in the first category). The third category includes agreements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the former Soviet Union, in which there are indicative lists as well as lists of commodities to be supplied on a mutual basis.2 Under these trade agreements, gov- ernments assume responsibility for mutually agreed 2Clearing arrangements are in effect with Kazakstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Russia, and Ukraine. supplies and are thus guarantors of the contracts, which are set in freely convertible currencies. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Restrictions on access by individuals to buy for- eign exchange were abolished on July 1,1995. There are no restrictions on bringing foreign currency into Uzbekistan, and nonresidents are allowed to take freely convertible currency out of Uzbekistan. Proceeds from invisibles for legal entities are sub- ject to the same surrender requirements as those applicable to proceeds from exports. Capital Enterprises may establish joint ventures as foreign direct investment with the approval of the Ministry of Justice. Foreign equity capital participation of up to 100 percent is allowed. Joint ventures are exempt from the profit tax during the first two years after registration; joint ventures with a foreign equity cap- ital share exceeding 50 percent are exempted from the profit tax during the first five years. Joint ven- tures are allowed to export their products and import inputs without licenses and to retain all of their foreign exchange earnings. Remittance of the foreign investors' share of profits is guaranteed, and the repatriation of capital is not restricted. A guaran- tee is provided to foreign investors that legislation will not be changed for ten years. Gold Trade in gold is prohibited (with the exception of jewelry and collectibles); however, transactions in gold may be conducted by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Joint ventures operating in the precious metals sector may export without restric- tion a portion of their output that corresponds to the share of profits of the foreign participant. Emigrants are allowed to take out of the country 100 grams of gold and 200 grams of silver in the form of jewelry or personal effects. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The frequency of foreign exchange auc- tions was increased to twice weekly. November 1. The official exchange rate of the sum in terms of the U.S. dollar and other currencies was to be determined daily, with the rate based on the weighted average exchange rates at which autho- rized banks purchase and sell foreign exchange in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 515 the interbank market on days when the rate is not determined at the auction. December 5. The maximum spread between the cash (both buying and selling) exchange rate and the official exchange rate was set at 20 percent. the automatic granting of licenses for cotton exports was introduced. November 1. The priority list of consumer imports was replaced with a negative list of imports, and the priority list for sectorial activities was eliminated. Administration of Control Gold April 1. New foreign exchange regulations were issued by the Central Bank that provided for broad current account convertibility. Prescription of Currency April 1. Limits on individuals' purchases of for- eign exchange at the commercial rate were increased to $500 from $300. July 1. Limits on individuals' access for the pur- chase of foreign exchange were abolished. October 16. The fee to obtain a patent to purchase foreign exchange in the auction was reduced to $10. Imports and Exports July 25. Prohibited exports were increased to 13 from 9 groups of products. October 1. A system of import duties was reintro- duced, and the system of export duties was modified. October 1. The number of goods subject to export licensing was reduced to 4 from 11, and a system for December 31. All gold reserves and foreign exchange of the Ministry of Finance held as short- term deposits at the National Bank for Foreign Eco- nomic Activity were sold to the Central Bank. Changes During 1996 Imports and Exports April 1. A new schedule of import tariffs estab- lished rates of 5 percent to 100 percent for 56 com- modities or groups of commodities, the majority of which (47 items) are in the 5 percent, 10 percent, and 20 percent categories. The 100 percent rate applies solely to used vehicles. April 1. A new schedule of export tariffs estab- lished rates of 5 percent to 100 percent for 83 com- modities or groups of commodities, the majority of which (59 items) are in the 5 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, 20 percent, or 30 percent categories. The 100 percent rate applies only to the exportation of art objects and antiques (with the authorization of the Ministry for Cultural Affairs). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanuatu is the Vatu, the external value of which is determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions-weighted (trade and tour- ism receipts) basket of currencies of its major trading partners. The Reserve Bank of Vanuatu buys and sells foreign exchange daily, and buying and selling rates of the vatu against the currencies in the basket are quoted twice a day within margins ranging between 0.25 percent and 0.30 percent around the middle rate. The Reserve Bank deals with the com- mercial banks only in U.S. dollars on a spot basis and buys and sells foreign exchange only in transac- tions with commercial banks for the Government's account or for commercial bank operations. On December 29, 1995, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 113.56 and VT 114.12, respectively, per $1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange rate cover facilities operating in the official sector. Commercial banks provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Vanuatu accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on December 1,1982. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments All items may be freely imported with the excep- tion of the following: any goods that are controlled under internal legislation in the interest of national health and well-being, such as explosives and dan- gerous drugs. The importation of frozen chicken, chicken pieces, T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif, firearms and ammunition, animals and plants, and transistor and telephone equipment is restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of five basic products—rice, sugar, flour, canned mackerel, and tobacco products —under a scheme designed to pro- vide funds for the Vanuatu Cooperative Federation. Currently, about two dozen importers pay a com- mission of 3 percent (4 percent in the case of tobacco products) to the cooperative for the right to import these five products. Customs duties are levied mainly on an ad valo- rem basis on the c.i.f. value of imports. Certain goods, including spirits, wine, beer, tobacco prod- ucts, and petroleum products, are subject to specific rates of import duty. Imported goods that compete with locally produced equivalents are generally sub- ject to high duty rates. A customs service tax of 5 percent is applied to most imports, based on the duty-inclusive import value. Under a regional trade agreement that came into operation in September 1994, canned tuna from the Solomon Islands and tea from Papua New Guinea may be imported free of import duty. Under an amended agreement, which took effect on December 20,1995, all goods listed for duty-free trade can originate from any of the three countries —Vanuatu, Solomon Islands, and Papua New Guinea —and the original list of products for duty-free trade (frozen beef, canned tuna, and tea) was expanded to include coffee, yogurt, cheese and curd, wooden furniture, kava, jam, fruit jellies, port- land cement, matches, fiberglass boats, toilet paper, iron or steel nails, and plastic shopping bags. Goods imported for a specified end use may be exempt from import duties. These include goods imported by or on behalf of the Government and funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships' stores (including fuels), goods imported for processing and re-exportation, and goods imported for investment projects. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, no restrictions are imposed on exports. The exportation of logs has been banned for environmental reasons since 1990 although exemptions have been granted in certain circum- stances. Exports of trochus, green snails, beches-de- 516 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 517 mer, mother-of-pearl, aquarium fish, and crusta- ceans1 are subject to authorization by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. Exports of copra, cocoa, and kava are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB); however, exports of kava can be undertaken by indi- viduals subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts having a special value either as a result of ceremonial use or because they are more than ten years old are subject to authorization from the Cul- tural Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis (f.o.b.); specific duties are levied on timber products and some other minor exports. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Including coconut crabs for conservation purposes. Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments December 20. Under an amended import agree- ment with the Solomon Islands and New Guinea, all goods listed for duty-free trade can originate from any of the three countries and the original list of products for duty-free trade (frozen beef, canned tuna, and tea) was expanded to include coffee, yogurt, cheese and curd, wooden furniture, kava, jam, fruit jellies, portland cement, matches, fiber- glass boats, toilet paper, iron or steel nails, and plas- tic shopping bags. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position as of July 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Boli- var, the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1995, the official rate of the Central Bank of Venezuela for the U.S. dollar was Bs 290 per $1. On June 22,1995, a legal parallel mar- ket for foreign exchange was created, with the autho- rized trading on local securities exchanges of foreign- currency-denominated government bonds trading on the secondary market ("Brady bonds"), for settle- ment in bolivares. An exchange rate applicable to travel and credit card transactions was temporarily introduced in October 1995. On December 11, 1995, the official exchange rate was devalued to Bs 290 per $1, and was made applicable to all transactions, thus effectively eliminating the temporary dual exchange rate system. In January 1996, certain limitations were imposed on domestic trading of Brady bonds. On April 22, 1996, Venezuela unified the exchange rate under a temporary managed float exchange system. During the initial weeks following this measure, the exchange rate was in the range of Bs 460 to Bs 470 per $1; the previous parallel market rate was in the range of Bs 470 to Bs 520 per $1. On July 8,1996, the Central Bank introduced the system of an exchange rate band; the initial rate was set at Bs 470 per $1, and the width of the band at ±7.5 percent.1 Resident commercial banks and exchange houses are designated as authorized foreign exchange deal- ers. Tourist establishments are allowed to offer their clients foreign exchange services in the form of pur- chases of foreign currency notes, coins, and trav- eler's checks. Venezuela accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 1, 1976. Administration of Control Under the system of exchange controls estab- lished on July 11,1994, the newly created Exchange Administration Board (EAB) and the associated Technical Administration Office are responsible for the administration of exchange transactions. The EAB was closed with the elimination of exchange controls in April 22, 1996. These bodies were estab- Curing the remainder of 1996, the central rate is to be adjusted in line with the inflation target for the fou r th quarter of 1996, i.e., 1.5 percent a month. lished initially by presidential decree, but the pow- ers to designate an EAB were formalized subsequently in a new foreign exchange law, dated December 1,1994, and signed into law in April 1995, under which the President of the Republic may establish exchange restrictions when warranted by the economic and financial conditions of the country. The EAB was closed when exchange controls were eliminated on April 22,1996. When required, export and import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Ministry of Develop- ment, the Ministry of Defense, or the Ministry of Foreign Relations, depending on the product. The Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX), attached to the Ministry of Finance, oversees the registration of foreign direct investments, con- tracts involving technology transfers, and the use of foreign patents and trademarks. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Some imports, irrespective of country of origin, are subject to licensing requirements for environ- mental, health, or security reasons. The importation of military arms must be authorized by the Ministry of Defense; the importation of nonmilitary weapons and ammunitions must be authorized by the Minis- try of Domestic Affairs. At the end of 1995, some 24 tariff items, of which 7 were chemicals used in drug production and approximately 17 were agro- industrial products, were subject to Legal Regime No. 2 and required approval from the import office. Quantitative restrictions apply to a small number of agricultural imports. During 1995, applications for the purchase of foreign exchange for all imports in excess of $5,000 had to be approved by the EAB in accordance with official quarterly targets for net international reserves. Prior to consideration by the 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 519 EAB, all requests must be processed and verified by the Technical Administration Office. As of October 18,1995, importers were allowed to purchase only 30 percent of the authorized sale of foreign exchange at the time of customs clearance; the remaining amount is provided in equal parts 90 and 120 days subse- quent to customs clearance. As of November 23, 1995, the Central Bank required letters of credit from importers using the ALADI clearing facility. Most customs tariffs on manufactured goods are on an ad valorem basis; there are four basic rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent, except for motor vehicles, which are subject to a spe- cial regime under the Andean Pact. The common external tariff on motor vehicles is 35 percent for passenger cars; 15 percent for cargo and commercial vehicles (except for cargo vehicles under 4,500 kg., such as pickup trucks, for which the rate is 25 per- cent); and 3 percent for imported components and parts for vehicles assembled in the member coun- tries. The importation of used vehicles is prohibited, with the exception of hearses, prison vans, and ambulances. Specific tariffs apply to agricultural products and to certain products included in Chapter 27 of the tariff code (e.g., mineral fuels, oil, mineral wax, distilled products, and bituminous substances). Storage charges apply to imports that remain in customs warehouses for more than 12 days. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the Free Port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that includes exemptions from customs tariffs. Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela extend duty- free access to each other's imports. Duty-free entry is also granted to certain goods originating from the member countries of the CARICOM region. Venezuela maintains a bilateral trade agreement with Chile, which aims at a gradual reduction of tariffs on each other's imports and at a coordination of the tariff structure with other trading partners. On December 29, 1994, the law approving the Trade Treaty of the Group of Three—Colombia, Mexico, and Venezu- ela—was passed and became effective on January 1, 1995. Payments for Invisibles Until April 22,1996, when exchange controls were eliminated, all payments for invisibles had to be authorized by the EAB with the exception of pur- chases of foreign exchange for travel abroad and remittances abroad that were subject to annual lim- its. For personal travel abroad, the following limits applied: $500 a year for travel to the Caribbean, Colombia, and Panama; $1,000 for travel to Florida, Central America, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia; $1,500 for travel to Mexico; $2,000 for travel to both the United States and Mexico; and $4,000 for travel to other destinations; travelers less than 18 years of age may purchase only one-half of these amounts. Lim- its on the purchase of foreign exchange for business travel were $3,000 a trip, with a maximum of three trips a calendar year. Monthly remittances to stu- dents abroad, in addition to enrollment fees, were allocated according to level of study as follows: $700 for secondary school students; $1,000 for undergrad- uate students; $1,500 for single postgraduate stu- dents; and $2,500 for married postgraduate students. Remittances from senior citizens to indi- viduals were limited to $200 a month, and remit- tances to pensioners and retirees of Venezuelan institutions were limited to $1,000 a month. Remit- tances of dividends resulting from investments asso- ciated with debt-to-equity conversions could not exceed 10 percent of the total investment for a three- year period from the date it was registered (see sec- tion on Capital, below). In October 1995, the authorities shifted certain tourism-related transactions to the parallel market, but with the December 1995 devaluation of the boli- var, foreign exchange for travel abroad was again sold at the official rate. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no controls or restrictions on exports. Export proceeds were subject to surrender require- ments and had to be sold to the Central Bank through authorized foreign exchange dealers up to April 22, 1996. However, the state petroleum com- pany (PDVSA) continues to be required to surrender its export proceeds to the Central Bank. PDVSA exports are subject to a surcharge of 8 percent. Exporters may retain up to 10 percent of the foreign exchange to meet commitments abroad; subject to verification, large exporters may retain unlimited amounts of foreign exchange receipts to meet com- mitments abroad.2 Exports of agricultural commodities, with the exception of those exported to Andean Pact member countries, are entitled to a fiscal credit at the rate of 10 percent of the f.o.b. value in the form of a negotia- ble bond that is issued by the Ministry of Finance. 2Prior to June 27, 1994, only PDVSA and its Venezuelan affili- ates were required to surrender their foreign exchange earnings, although they were allowed to maintain working balances of for- eign exchange at a level preapproved by the Board of the Central Bank of Venezuela. Foreign exchange! proceeds of loan disburse- ments to the public sector were also required to be surrendered to the Central Bank of Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 VENEZUELA These bonds may be used for tax payments. Fiscal credits for manufactured exports have been replaced by a system of drawback of customs duties that are paid on imported inputs used in export production. Drawbacks take the form of tax reimbursement cer- tificates issued by the Ministry of Finance. PDVSA and Ferrominera Orinoco have monopo- lies over the exportation of hydrocarbons and iron ore, respectively. The tax on exports of hydrocarbons was 4 percent in 1995, and is to be eliminated by the end of 1996. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles were subject to surrender requirements until April 22, 1996. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, except that foreign coins other than gold coins may not be imported for commercial purposes. Capital Capital outflows not related to the amortization of external debt and the repatriation of capital by for- eigners were prohibited and foreign direct invest- ments in the petroleum and iron ore sectors were subject to specific regulations up to April 22,1996. Mass media, communications, newspapers in Spanish, and security services are reserved for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX but must be registered with the SIEX after the fact, and approval is automatically granted if the new invest- ment is consistent with national legislation; pur- chases of corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange made from sales of foreign exchange in the parallel exchange market do not require approval from the SIEX. Foreign investments in the financial sector are allowed in accordance with the new banking law. Foreign enterprises may establish subsidiaries in Venezuela without prior authoriza- tion as long as they are consistent with the Com- merce Code; the SIEX must, however, be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsidiaries. The reinvestment of profits does not require prior authorization and is not restricted. Until April 22,1996, sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of capital were subject to the authoriza- tion of the EAB. Authorization was not provided for the repatriation of capital originally invested through the parallel exchange market. Foreign investors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange but must inform the SIEX of such purchases at the end of each calendar year. Until April 22,1996, foreign investors who pur- chased corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange through sales of foreign exchange in the parallel market could not repatriate the capital invested through the official market. Certain external public debt can be converted into equity. The Central Bank purchases debt instruments at a price fixed at 20 percent above the average price prevailing in the market for those instruments within the ten banking business days before the date of con- version. The eligible areas are infrastructure (ports, bridges, and railways); aqueducts and water treat- ment plants; terrestrial and fluvial transportation; wholesale markets for agricultural products (includ- ing construction, maintenance, and administration); educational institutions; funds for financing research and studies for Venezuelan students in Venezuela or overseas; and medical assistance centers. The maxi- mum component of the investment to be covered by the conversion of the external public debt will be determined by the Ministry of Finance. To effect a debt conversion, the Central Bank pur- chases the external debt with domestic currency (or public debt securities denominated in domestic cur- rency), which is then deposited into a trust account opened by the investor with a fiduciary agent (nor- mally a commercial bank) in Venezuela. The agent is responsible for ensuring the proper use of the trust account and releases the funds in step with the implementation of the investment project. (As part of the required documentation, investors must sub- mit in advance a timetable for the investment and its domestic component to be financed through debt conversion.) To further ensure the proper use of the conversion proceeds, investors must deposit with a fiduciary agent a guarantee (equivalent to 5 percent of the total investment), which can be reduced in line with the implementation of the investment. There are no restrictions on conversions of private external debt into private domestic debt or equity; these conversions may be effected freely through the interbank market. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment purposes. Gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized dealers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold and imports of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela are reserved for the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 521 The exportation of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and gold coins eligible as legal tender in Venezuela or abroad are subject to prior authorization from the Central Bank. Under the terms of the agreement between the National Executive and the Central Bank, imports of nonmon- etary gold may be regulated. The Central Bank may authorize private exporters to export gold bars, pro- vided that the exported gold bars will be reimported after undergoing processing that is not available in the country and that the reimported gold is used as an input in domestic production. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement June 22. A legal parallel market for foreign exchange was established with the trading of Brady bonds on the nation's securities exchanges for settle- ment in bolivares. October 26. Sales and purchases of foreign exchange relating to travel and to credit card pay- ments were transferred from the Central Bank to the parallel market. December 11. The official exchange rate was deval- ued to Bs 290 per $1. Foreign exchange transactions related to travel and credit card payments were transferred back to the official market. Imports and Import Payments October 18. Sales of foreign exchange for imports by the Central Bank would be provided in three installments: 30 percent at the time of customs clear- ance and the remainder in equal parts 90 and 120 days subsequent to customs clearance. November 23. The Central Bank required letters of credit from importers using the ALADI clearing facility. Payments for Invisibles February 13. Limits on the sale of foreign exchange for personal travel abroad were reduced. August 2. Limits on the sale of foreign exchange for personal and business travel abroad were reduced. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 31. Certain limitations were imposed on domestic trading of Brady bonds. April 22. The exchange rate was unified under a temporary managed float exchange system. July 8. The Central Bank introduced the system of an exchange rate band, setting the initial central rate at Bs 470 per $1 and the width of the band at ±7.5 percent. Administration of Control April 22. The Exchange Administration Board was closed. Payments for Invisibles April 22. Controls on payments for invisibles were eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds April 22. Surrender requirements were eliminated, except those applied to PDVSA. Proceeds from Invisibles April 22. Surrender requirements were eliminated. Capital April 22. Exchange controls were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM (Position as of December 32,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vietnam is the Dong. All foreign exchange transactions are channeled through the interbank market.1 Spot and forward transactions are permitted between the Vietnamese dong and six other currencies.2 Trading must take place at exchange rates within ranges stipulated daily by the State Bank of Vietnam. Only the State Bank, state- owned banks, such as the Bank of Investment and Development, shareholding banks, joint-venture banks, and branches of foreign banks may partici- pate in the exchange markets. On December 30, 1995, the average buying and selling rates in the interbank market for the U.S. dollar were D 11,011 and D 11,018, respectively, per $1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the State Bank. Foreign trade is administered by the Ministry of Trade, which supervises the operations carried out by the foreign trade organizations and firms with direct foreign trading rights. Import and export licenses, which are required for all trade transac- tions, are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Foreign trade organizations and firms engaged in interna- tional trade must submit annual plans for their imports and exports to the Ministry of Planning and Investment; revisions of the plans may be requested every three months. Most grants in convertible cur- rencies from bilateral official donors and interna- tional organizations are under the supervision of the Committee for Reception and Management of Aid, an agency attached to the Ministry of Finance. For- eign investment is monitored and coordinated by the Ministry of Planning and Investment. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency requirement in place. 1 There is also the foreign exchange trading floor of the auction market located at the branch of the State Bank in Ho Chi Minn City; however, activity in the auction market effectively ceased in 1995. 2Deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. 522 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain nonresi- dent accounts either in foreign currencies or in con- vertible dong; however, they may not open interest- yielding bank accounts in dong. Nonresidents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acquired against foreign currency. Viet- namese citizens are allowed to sell foreign exchange in their possession to banks, or to deposit it into interest-bearing foreign currency bank accounts. Vietnamese citizens living abroad may also remit foreign exchange to interest-bearing foreign cur- rency accounts. Foreign currency deposited in a bank may be withdrawn for payments or transferred to other units or individuals. Households may main- tain savings accounts in foreign currency; the mini- mum interest rate on these accounts is 3.2 percent for time deposits and 1.5 percent for sight deposits. Imports and Exports Manufacturing firms and local authorities are allowed to conduct trade; some export transactions and all import transactions require a license issued by the Ministry of Trade. Trade transactions are car- ried out by about 700 firms, including 140 foreign trade organizations that produce exportable goods or purchase them from producers, but trade of cer- tain products is regulated by quotas. About 200 producers have temporary or permanent trad- ing rights, which allow them to export and import directly; about 160 foreign-owned or joint-venture firms trade directly with foreign partners. State- owned firms with an annual export turnover of more than $5 million may obtain permanent direct foreign trading rights, whereas those with an annual export turnover in the range of $2-5 million may obtain temporary direct foreign trading rights. Other firms may obtain direct export permits on the basis of shipments or trade with a foreign trade organiza- tion. Decree No. 114 entered into force in April 1992; it permits private commercial trading houses to engage in import and export activities. In 1995, imports of the following products were prohibited: (1) weapons, ammunition and explo- sives, and military equipment; (2) drugs and toxic chemicals; (3) dangerous and unhealthy cultural products; (4) "reactionary and depraved" cultural products; (5) fireworks and children's toys that det- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 523 rimentally influence personality, education, social order, and safety; (6) most used consumer goods; (7) most used equipment operating at less than 80 per- cent of original specifications or over ten years old; (8) most left-hand-drive cars; and (9) materials and additives required for making cigarettes. All import quotas are formally approved by the Government. The Ministry of Planning and Investment, in coordi- nation with the Ministry of Trade, may impose ad hoc temporary quantity controls. The following seven commodity groups are subject to quantitative controls: steel, cement, fertilizer, passenger cars (less than 12 seats), motorcycles, petroleum products, and sugar. The issuance of import licenses is on a ship- ment-by-shipment basis for all products.3 Import tar iffs range up to a maximum of 60 percent. Machinery and equipment as well as medicine are exempt from tariffs. Certain imports of foreign investment enterprises, incorporated under the Law on Foreign Investment are also exempted from duty, including imports for capital construction; first-time imports of instruments, working tools, machine components, assembling devices, and materials des- tined for initial production and business activities, as described in the Foreign Ministry's Feasibility Study; goods and equipment destined for activities in connection with petroleum exploration or exploi- tation; and the first-time imports of automobiles for enterprises not in the passenger transportation busi- ness. Tariff rates of 50 percent to 60 percent are applied to garments and footwear, soft drinks, cos- metics, and automobiles. Local foreign trade organizations are permitted to export all commodities, and local firms may import the commodities that they need for production. The procurement of exportable goods is normally unre- stricted, except for some sensitive goods (such as rice), for which a minimum export price prevails. Only exports of rice are subject to a quota. For rice, crude oil, products made of wool and rattan, and re- exported goods, export licenses must be obtained for each shipment. Under Decision No. 188 of the Council of Minis- ters, export earnings are subject to various surrender requirements, ranging up to 30 percent; however, this regulation is not strictly enforced. In practice, the authorities have tolerated full retention of for- eign exchange receipts. All receipts must be repatri- ated within 30 days, except for special cases authorized by the Governor of the State Bank, such 3With e f fect f rom February 1, 1996, all shipment licenses have been abolished. Import licenses are now issued by the Ministry of Trade for the majority of goods, and for a limited number of spe- cialized goods import certificates are issued by line ministries. as for firms with marketing or representative activi- ties abroad. Organizations and enterprises must deposit all foreign exchange proceeds in foreign exchange accounts at domestic commercial banks that are licensed to conduct foreign exchange busi- ness in Vietnam. Limits on foreign exchange hold- ings in such accounts are set by the commercial banks applying rules set by the State Bank. Deposits in excess of those limits must be sold to the commer- cial banks. While foreign exchange must normally be deposited in banks in Vietnam, firms that are per- mitted to open branch offices abroad may be granted special permission to deposit these funds in foreign accounts. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. The foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad is $5,000 a trip,4 but the allocation may be raised to $10,000 for travelers using foreign exchange from their own for- eign currency accounts, but banks are required to ensure that the traveler actually possesses resources before engaging in a transaction. Larger allocations of foreign exchange require permission from the State Bank. Remittances of profits are subject to a tax of 5 percent to 10 percent. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the State Bank. Organizations and enterprises must deposit all foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles transac- tions in foreign exchange accounts at domestic com- mercial banks, according to the same rules and conditions that apply to export proceeds. While such funds must normally be deposited in banks within Vietnam, firms in the aviation, shipping, postal, and insurance sectors, as well as commercial banks, finance companies, and other firms permitted to open branches abroad may be granted special per- mission to deposit these funds in foreign accounts. Capital Foreign direct investment is regulated by a foreign investment code approved by the National Assembly in 1987 and amended in December 1992. The code provides for three forms of foreign investment: (1) contracted business cooperation, such as product- sharing arrangements; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese private enterprise 4On Janua ry 1,1996, this limit was raised to $7,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 524 VIETNAM or state economic organization; and (3) firms wholly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is no less than 30 percent, and there is no maximum limit. Other provisions in the code include (1) a 50 to 70 year limit on the duration of the enterprise with foreign capital; (2) a tax of 5 percent to 10 percent on the remittance of profits abroad; and (3) profit taxes to be paid at rates of 15 percent to 25 percent, starting two years after the first profit- making year (foreign joint ventures in priority sec- tors are, however, exempt from the tax in their first two years of eligibility, and the tax rate is halved in the following two years). In 1992, the code was amended to allow domestic private firms to partici- pate with foreign firms in investment projects. Provi- sions for repatriating profits were also amended to allow the use of domestic currency to purchase and export domestically produced goods and retain the proceeds from these exports abroad. The authority to grant foreign investment licenses is entrusted to the Ministry of Planning and Invest- ment for projects under $1 million; for projects over $1 million, the provincial authorities concerned are consulted. In principle, 100 percent of profits may be repatriated; however, in practice, the conversion of domestic currency profits into foreign currency for repatriation is governed by the prevailing foreign exchange regulations. Land cannot be owned by for- eign investors but must be leased from the state. Vietnamese organizations and citizens who need foreign currency for production and business pur- poses have been permitted, upon verification by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or obtain a bank guarantee for loans in foreign cur- rency. If allowed to borrow directly from foreign countries under commercial credit, the borrower must report periodically to the State Bank the expen- ditures in foreign currency from funds deposited abroad, including loan repayments. Gold Gold may be brought into the country, provided that required customs declarations are made and a customs tariff is paid; nonresidents are entitled to export gold up to the amount they brought in. The price of gold for domestic transactions is set at auc- tions organized by the Vietnam Gold and Silver Trading Company. The importation of gold by resi- dents requires a license from the State Bank. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control November 1. The State Committee on Cooperation and Investment and the State Planning Committee were combined into the Ministry of Planning and Investment. Resident and Nonresident Accounts February 23. Vietnamese citizens living abroad were permitted to remit foreign exchange to interest- bearing foreign currency accounts at banks autho- rized to deal in foreign exchange. Imports and Exports April 1. Circular No. 20/TC/TCT exempted from duty certain imports of Foreign Investment Enter- prises, incorporated under the Law on Foreign Investment, including imports for capital construc- tion; first-time imports of instruments, working tools, assembling devices, and materials destined for the initial production and business activities, as described in the Foreign Ministry's Feasibility Study; goods and equipment destined for activities in connection with petroleum exploration or exploi- tation; and the first-time imports of automobiles for enterprises not in the passenger transportation busi- ness machine components. October 17. Standards for the import of second- hand equipment were issued under Decision No. 1762/QD-PCTN. Under these requirements (1) most equipment over ten years old was excluded; (2) all equipment must be at a technical capacity of no less than 80 percent of its original level; (3) the products produced by the equipment must meet Vietnam's domestic or export standards; and (4) the safety of the users and the environment must be ensured. In addition, foreign investment companies may not import used equipment from developing countries, and imports of equipment required by capital projects, such as aircraft and ships, would be approved on a case-by-case basis. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles August 24. The foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad was raised to $10,000 a trip from $5,000, if travelers use funds from their own foreign exchange account. Allocations in excess of those lim- its would require special permission from the State Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. Its exchange rate is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship with a weighted basket of currencies of Western Samoa's main trading partners. The Central Bank of Samoa has the authority to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket within a margin of up to 2 percent. On December 31,1995, the buying and selling rates of the tala in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were US$0.4117 and US$0.4027, respec- tively, per WS$1. Exchange rates for the tala against other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the U.S. dollar. An exchange levy of 1 percent is charged on gross sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Western Samoa accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on October 6,1994. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Central Bank, which delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the Central Bank's approval. How- ever, the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —are empowered to approve certain payments up to any amount and others up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments that may be used for making or receiving pay- ments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents and residents who earn foreign exchange in the normal course of their business may open, with the approval of the Central Bank, exter- nal or foreign currency accounts with one of the two commercial banks. No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents of West- ern Samoa. There are no import licensing requirements. The importation of a few products is prohibited for rea- sons of security or health. Other products may be imported from any source without restriction, with the exception of used cars, the importation of which requires prior approval from the Central Bank,which does not grant approval for imports of cars more than five years old, for safety reasons. Approvals for the importation of other cars are granted liberally. Imports with a c.i.f. value of more than WS$15,000 must be financed with a letter of credit. Imports with a c.i.f. value of between WS$5,000 and WS$15,000 must be settled with a sight draft. Imports with a c.i.f. value of less than WS$5,000 may be imported under open account, provided that payments are effected within 30 days of their arrival in Western Samoa. Import duties are applied on an ad valorem basis and assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. Most products are subject to a tariff of 35 percent. The tar- iff rates on machinery and agricultural inputs are generally levied at 20 percent or lower, while those on motor vehicles are levied at 50 percent. In addi- tion, an import excise tax is levied on the value of a limited range of imports, inclusive of import duties. That tax is, for example, either 50 percent, 60 per- cent, or 70 percent on passenger cars, according to engine size. Approved enterprises producing goods for export may receive full or partial exemption from customs duties and excise tax paid on capital equip- ment, motor vehicles for business use, building materials, and raw materials and components. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Pay- ments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is granted when applica- tions are supported by documentary proof that capi- tal transactions are not involved. The Central Bank's approval process governing the remittance of invisi- ble payments is concerned only with whether a transaction is bona fide. Residents and expatriates traveling overseas for private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to WS$200 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$3,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to one half the adult allowances. A daily 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 WESTERN SAMOA allowance of WS$300 a person is allotted for business travel, with a limit of WS$4,500 a trip. The Central Bank grants supplementary allocations against evi- dence that foreign exchange is being used for approved purposes. As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes equivalent to WS$1,000 a person a trip. All requests from residents of Western Samoa to remit funds to residents studying abroad to cover their education expenses must be supported by doc- umentary evidence confirming that the beneficiary is enrolled at an educational institution abroad. There is no specific limit for such remittances, but the amount requested must be supported by docu- mentary evidence for costs (e.g., fees, accommoda- tion, and meals) and must be in line with the prevailing costs in the countries of study. Residents of Western Samoa with dependents living abroad may remit, from personal resources, an amount not exceeding WS$2,000 a donor a year to support such dependents. The Central Bank considers requests in excess of this amount on merit. Although no limit is set on remittances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documentary evidence must be provided to support requests for such remittances. Expatriate workers with local contracts of one year and longer are considered residents and need central bank approval if they wish to repatriate funds in excess of 80 percent of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis. Earnings not repatri- ated during the contract may be repatriated at the end of the contract. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remit- tances of dividends at the source and on interest payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low qual- ity, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export proceeds from goods shipped to countries other than American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment; export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess of WS$250. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents per- forming services for nonresidents must be surren- dered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on their return, sell to the banks all unused foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes but may not bring in any domestic banknotes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank, as does all borrowing abroad by residents, including banks. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval. Authorized banks may approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or for maintenance, up to WS$250 a person a year. Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Foreign investment in specified activities in West- ern Samoa $re encouraged. Under the Enterprises Incentive Act, persons engaged in approved enter- prises are granted some relief from income tax and business license fees. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital must be approved by the Central Bank; such approval is granted when the appropriate documentation is supplied. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of January 31,1996) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 50.04 per $1 (midpoint rate).1 On December 31,1995, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YRls 50.00 and YRls 50.08, respectively, per $1. Buying and selling rates for 12 other currencies2 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are three exchange rates in the Republic of Yemen. The official rate applies to oil exports, pay- ments of interest and principal on public external debt, government receipts from nonresidents, offi- cial travel abroad, limited allocations of foreign exchange for students studying abroad or residents traveling abroad for medical treatment, the Govern- ment's transactions with Yemeni embassies, and payments to nonnationals working for the Govern- ment. There is a special exchange rate of YRls 12 per $1 applied to the imports of basic foods (wheat and flour). All other foreign exchange transactions take place in the free parallel market where the exchange rate is freely determined by supply and demand. The exchange rate in the parallel market on Decem- ber 31,1995, was YRls 127 per $1. Both banks and moneychangers operate in the free parallel market.3 The moneychangers operate both inside Yemen and in neighboring countries (mainly in Saudi Arabia), where they acquire foreign exchange primarily from expatriate Yemeni workers, which they remit to their offices in Yemen, which credit the workers' accounts. Most private sector external transactions take place in the parallel market. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. ]The dinar of the former People's Democratic Republic of Ye- men (YD) is also circulating as legal tender at the rate of YRls 26 per YD 1, but is gradually being w i thdrawn from circulation. 2Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jor- dan dinars, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guil- ders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3Since December 1995, the commercial banks are permitted to freely compete with moneychangers in the parallel market (Cir- cular No. 5 of November 26,1995), and may buy and sell foreign exchange at market price on their own account or on behalf of their customers. The Central Bank of Yemen establishes a foreign exchange budget in parallel with a commodity bud- get prepared by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry in consultation with the Central Bank of Yemen. All but a few imports require a license issued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade. Licenses are sent directly to banks open- ing letters of credit. Commercial banks must pro- vide an implementation guarantee in Yemeni rials equivalent to 2 percent of the value of the import. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Cen- tral Bank of Yemen. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.4 Foreign Exchange Accounts Commercial banks are permitted to open freely transferable foreign-currency-denominated accounts for residents and nonresidents, provided that the funds in these accounts are derived from (1) foreign currency transfers from abroad; (2) foreign exchange receipts from exports; (3) income from services ren- dered abroad or to nonresidents; (4) transfers from other freely transferable foreign currency accounts; or (5) foreign currencies, traveler's checks, or bank checks that have been declared to customs. These accounts may be used to (1) finance licensed imports; (2) transfer foreign exchange abroad with- out prior approval from the Central Bank of Yemen; (3) withdraw foreign currency in cash; (4) make transfers to another freely transferable or nontrans- ferable foreign currency account; and (5) pay expenses and bank commissions.5 Imports and Import Payments An annual foreign exchange budget is prepared by the Central Bank of Yemen and is approved by the Supreme Council for Economic, Oil, and Invest- ment Affairs. In conjunction with the foreign exchange budget, an import program is prepared 4The requirement to pay hotel bills and airline tickets of non- residents in foreign currency was abolished on January 1,1996. 5Effective January 1,1996, the distinction between transferable and nontransferable foreign currency accounts was abolished and these accounts were made free and convertible. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN annually by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry. The priority categories are foodstuffs, petroleum products, medicines, and inputs for production. Imports from Israel and imports of certain types of used machinery for resale are prohibited. Most other imports require licenses and must be processed through local commercial banks. Imports of capital equipment by foreign oil companies do not require a license. Also, all enterprises are permitted to import spare parts up to a maximum value of $5,000 for each unlicensed shipment to meet emergency requirements. The value of imports under this facil- ity is not allowed to exceed $50,000 a year for each enterprise. Yemeni nationals returning from abroad who use their savings in foreign exchange to estab- lish small enterprises or craft shops are allowed to import machinery and spare parts needed for their business activities up to a limit of $40,000 with the authorization of the Ministry of Supply and Trade. In addition, the importation of certain products requires the permission of certain government agen- cies, and imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company, a public corpo- ration. With the exception of medical imports, insur- ance for all imports must be purchased locally. All importers holding an import license for wheat or flour may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the Central Bank of Yemen. Imports of other commodities must be self-financed, and foreign exchange may be obtained from any source other than the Central Bank of Yemen. The commercial banks are authorized to open letters of credit for the importation of most goods, provided that such imports are self-financed. The commercial banks are thus authorized to accept import licenses in respect of these imports (which have been issued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade) without approval from the Central Bank of Yemen. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a tax of 1 percent for recon- struction related to earthquake damage. Imports transported over land routes without a license are subject to a 100 percent surcharge and an advance payment of profits tax equal to 3 percent of their value. A conversion rate of YRls 18 per $1 is applied to all imports for the purpose of customs valuation. Payments for Invisibles There is no restriction on invisible payments, although amounts sold by the Central Bank of Yemen at the official exchange rate are limited. The Central Bank of Yemen sells foreign exchange to stu- dents studying abroad as well as to individuals seek- ing medical treatment abroad; the amount allowed for treatment depends on the patient's destination and may not exceed $2,500. Larger amounts are granted on presentation of an official medical report. There are no restrictions on outward remittances in foreign exchange by expatriate workers. The expor- tation of Yemeni rial banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. All exports must be registered for statistical purposes on forms issued by banks. Exporters of products other than petro- leum may use 100 percent of their foreign exchange receipts to finance imports of either their own inputs or any other permitted goods, as long as they have an import license. Exporters do not have to repatri- ate or surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which they may retain in free foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be repatriated. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign banknotes. The importation of Yemeni rial bank- notes is prohibited. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers are not restricted.6 Foreign direct investment is subject to the provi- sions of the Investment Law administered by the Public Investment Authority. For approved and reg- istered projects, this law guarantees freedom of investment, equal treatment of foreigners and nationals, the transfer abroad of net profits after taxes attributable to foreign capital, and the repatria- tion of registered capital on liquidation in the cur- rency of investment. In practice, investors are free to transfer abroad any portion of their share of net profits after taxes and other provisions and to repa- triate their capital. Nationalization and confiscation are prohibited, except in cases of urgent public necessity, and then only with compensation and per- mission to transfer foreign capital abroad. Foreign investments are authorized by the Public Investment Authority for projects deemed to be economically viable and socially acceptable; a reasonable timeta- ble for completion and other conditions must be specified. Certain tax and import duty exemptions and concessions are granted for five years to 6On January 1,1996, the Central Bank of Yemen prohibited the banks from granting foreign currency loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 529 approved projects that meet specific economic crite- ria. The registration of direct foreign investments and the authentication of intended profit and capital repatriation are undertaken by the Public Invest- ment Authority. Private capital transactions unre- lated to direct investments may also be made without restriction; however, Circular No. 3 of May 7, 1995, prohibits the commercial banks from purchasing foreign exchange for their customers for the purpose of transferring these purchases abroad. External public debt transactions are conducted through the Central Bank of Yemen, which also maintains accounts of outstanding amounts and ser- vice payments due. Commercial banks are required to maintain their overall foreign currency position (short or long) within 20 percent of capital base while the limit in a single currency is 10 percent. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Republic of Yemen. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 29. The number of exchange rates used in Yemen was reduced from five to three by abolishing the incentive exchange rate of YRls 25 per $1 and the fixed parallel exchange rate of YRls 84 per $1. The official exchange rate that applies to most govern- ment, public enterprises, and other agencies transac- tions was devalued by 76 percent to YRls 50.04 from YRls 12 per $1 (midpoint rate). The "special" exchange rate of YRls 12 per $1 is applied to imports of basic foods (wheat and flour). The third exchange rate is the parallel market exchange rate. May 7. Commercial banks were allowed to partici- pate in the parallel foreign exchange market, and the official parallel market exchange rate was abolished. The market exchange rate for the commercial banks was set by a committee consisting of the representa- tives of banks and the Central Bank of Yemen. The limits for the overall foreign currency exposure of banks was set at 20 percent of their capital base, while the limit for any single currency exposure was set at 10 percent of their capital base. In addition, commercial banks were prohibited from purchasing foreign exchange for their customers for the purpose of transferring these purchases to foreign accounts. December 1. Commercial banks were allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined exchange rates in the parallel market and hence compete with moneychangers (Circular No. 5 of November 26,1995). Imports and Import Payments November 27. The Central Bank of Yemen canceled the prohibition on opening letters of credit unless the foreign exchange was purchased from the paral- lel market using the official parallel exchange rate. Capital December 14. The Central Bank of Yemen prohib- ited banks from granting foreign currency loans. The banks were then given permission to transact on their own account as well as for their customers; banks remit their purchases in foreign currencies to the Central Bank of Yemen. Changes During 1996 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Hotels were required to collect all their bills in local currency and convert the balances to foreign exchange using the market exchange rate. The airline companies and agencies were required to collect airline tickets sold domestically only in local currency. Foreign Exchange Accounts January 1. The distinction between transferable and nontransferable accounts was eliminated and these accounts became freely transferable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Zaire is the New Zaire. The exter- nal value of the new zaire is determined in daily fix- ing sessions, in which all financial institutions and the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) participate. The rates emerging from the fixing session is based on the rate prevailing in the unofficial exchange market. All commercial banks and financial institutions (including 38 exchange bureaus) are permitted to trade in foreign exchange. At the end of each day, all commercial banks and financial institutions are required to determine the total value of purchase and sales transactions in Belgian francs, French francs, and U.S. dollars with customers and with other commercial banks and financial institutions. The banks must also determine the value in new zaires of the transactions in each of the three curren- cies and report to the Bank of Zaire the calculated average effective buying and selling rates of the three currencies as well as the highest and lowest rates quoted in these transactions. The Bank of Zaire uses this information to arrive at the average effec- tive exchange rate of the new zaire against 22 other currencies and units, based on the rates provided by the IMF between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned.1 The fixing rate is used as an indicative rate at the opening of trading on the day of their publication and are applied to all government oper- ations, including debt-service payments and the transactions of government-owned enterprises. On December 31,1995, the rate published by the Bank of Zaire was NZ 14,830.5 per $1, and the rate emerging from the fixing session was NZ 15,800 per $1. Charges or commissions are not assessed on inter- bank market transactions. In their transactions with customers, commercial banks and financial institu- tions may charge an exchange commission not exceeding 1 percent. The spread between the buying and selling rates for foreign banknotes set by the commercial banks and financial institutions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5 percent. Forward transactions may be conducted in the for- eign exchange market. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European cur- rency units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shil- lings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, SDKs, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. The Bank of Zaire has full regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including dis- cretionary power to authorize residents to hold and use foreign exchange abroad and within Zaire. The Bank of Zaire may delegate this authority to certain bank or nonbank intermediaries. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance, manages the medium- and long-term exter- nal and domestic public and publicly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Government on external debt policy, including terms and guarantees extended by the Government on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and pri- vate enterprises. In principle, no new external bor- rowing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies whose rates are published daily by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the accep- tance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Residents must make payments to nonresidents in one of the listed convertible cur- rencies or by crediting nonresident accounts in new zaires or in foreign currency. Settlements with the member countries of the Eco- nomic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), Burundi and Rwanda, and the member countries of the Economic Community of Central African States (CEEAC)2 are made through convert- ible accounts established under arrangements con- cluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these convert- ible accounts at the end of settlement periods—each quarter for CEPGL countries and each month for the CEEAC countries —are transferable into the cur- rency stipulated by the creditor. Virtually all settle- 2Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome and Principe. 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 531 ments (other than for re-exports) with member countries of the CEEAC are effected through the Central African Clearing House (Chambre de com- pensation de 1'Afrique Centrale) through its account with the Bank of Zaire. Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: nonresident foreign currency accounts (comptes de non-residents en devises), nonresident convertible accounts (comptes etrangers convertibles), nonresident ordinary accounts (comptes etrangers ordinaires), and nonresident special accounts (comptes etrangers indis- ponibles). All nonresident accounts must be main- tained as sight deposits and may not show a debit balance. Nonresident foreign currency accounts, as well as nonresident convertible and special accounts, can be opened at any authorized commercial bank without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. The opening of nonresident ordinary accounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. Such authorization is not required when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplomatic missions (including those representing international and offi- cial multilateral organizations) or for official civil and military cooperation programs. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be cred- ited with foreign currency payments by residents or nonresidents in the following cases: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) transfers of for- eign currencies from nonresident convertible accounts; (3) proceeds from arbitrage transactions; (4) inward transfers in foreign currencies from non- residents and from foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (5) payments in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (6) transfers in foreign currencies from other nonresident foreign currency accounts. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be deb- ited freely for the following purposes: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) sales of foreign currency to any authorized bank against new zaires; (3) arbitrage of foreign currencies against other for- eign currencies authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (4) outward transfers in foreign currencies; (5) transfers to other nonresident foreign currency accounts; (6) withdrawals of banknotes or traveler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (7) banking commis- sions and fees. Nonresident convertible accounts may be credited with (1) transfers of means of payment in foreign currency at banks or authorized financial institu- tions; (2) transfers from other nonresident convert- ible accounts as well as from resident foreign currency accounts; and (3) payments by authorized commercial banks in connection with operations for which the Bank of Zaire authorizes those banks either to credit nonresident convertible accounts or to deliver foreign currency as stipulated by the exchange regulation. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) payments to residents for operations other than exports of goods and services; (2) pur- chases in the foreign exchange market of foreign cur- rencies or any other means of payment for travel expenses abroad; (3) transfers to other nonresident convertible accounts and purchases of banknotes or any other means of payment in new zaires at any authorized commercial bank; and (4) banking com- missions and fees. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign exchange against new zaires received as down payments or transferred from abroad; (2) transfers in new zaires from nonresident convertible accounts; and (3) receipts in new zaires from residents for services rendered in Zaire, prop- erty rentals, transportation fares, consular and chan- cery fees, and other services as specified by the Bank of Zaire at the time such accounts are opened. Non- resident ordinary accounts may be debited for (1) payments in new zaires to residents for local pur- chases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and bank- ing commissions and fees; (2) transfers to other nonresident ordinary accounts of the same holder; and (3) withdrawals of banknotes or any other means of payment in new zaires. In addition, assets held in nonresident ordinary accounts are not trans- ferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to non- resident convertible accounts. Nonresident special accounts can be opened for non- residents entitled to receive specified payments on account of (1) the sale of, or rental income from, real estate properties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents; and (2) the sale of businesses and goodwill, as well as shares in agricul- tural, commercial, industrial, and service companies located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents. In addition, all assets denominated in new zaires and owned by non-Zairian residents permanently leav- ing Zaire must be deposited in or transferred to a nonresident special account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons. The same requirements apply to proceeds from the sale of real estate or the rental of fixed capital owned by non- Zairian residents who subsequently become nonres- idents. Accounts under this category can be debited only for (1) travel expenses incurred by the holders of such accounts; (2) transfers to religious organiza- tions or any nonprofit cultural, philanthropic, or social organizations; (3) banking commissions and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 532 ZAIRE fees; (4) local taxes payable to the central Govern- ment of Zaire; (5) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (6) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Resident foreign currency accounts. Residents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts at local commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with funds arising from capital transactions, receipts from exports of goods and services and prefinancing credits in respect of such exports within the limits established by the Bank of Zaire. These accounts may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for which the Bank of Zaire publishes exchange rates. Over- draf ts on these accounts are not permitted. Deposits in these accounts may be used to meet virtually any foreign exchange obligation, including import pay- ments, and funds may be transferred from one for- eign exchange account to another opened in the name of the same holder, with the exception of accounts opened by artisanal diamond and gold marketing agencies. Existing regulatory and admin- istrative provisions relating to imports apply to imports financed from these accounts. Anyone per- mitted to make import payments through this method (using Form I) may do so by debiting these accounts. Authorized banks may pay royalties, mer- chandise transport costs, services, and capital retransfer to nonresidents out of these accounts on the instruction of the account holders, who provide the supporting documents required under the exchange regulations. For account holders with the requisite supporting documentation, Form V is not required for withdrawals to cover travel or living expenses abroad, medical expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, educational or training expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, and tickets for international travel. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohib- ited or require special authorization from the Gov- ernment. Most other imports are subject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. In gen- eral, import declarations remain valid for 12 months; an importer wishing to extend the valid- ity period must so indicate in the import documents accompanying the declaration. The validity may be extended for the first time by the authorized banks if shipment has begun; if shipment has not begun, extension of the validity period requires authoriza- tion from the Bank of Zaire. Imports of goods intended for expansion of a capital base or for the importer's own use may be effected without a decla- ration to an authorized bank, provided that the value does not exceed SDR 1,000 for each tariff item and SDR 5,000 for each shipment and that the ship- ments are financed from the importer's own resources. All goods shipped by sea to Zaire must be trans- ported on vessels belonging to shipowners that are bonded with the Office zairois de gestion des frets maritimes (OGEFREM) and whose freight charges have been negotiated with that office. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including payments up to 30 days from date of shipment). Banks may pay freight charges only upon presentation of invoices from the carriers or their agents. The mode of pay- ment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Authorized banks are allowed to pay trans- portation and insurance costs in foreign exchange only on imports for which they are directly involved in the financing on an f.o.b. basis. With a few excep- tions, imports are subjected to a preshipment inspec- tion. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Zairian Control Office (OZAC); however, in special cases, verification may be effected upon arrival, subject to a waiver from the Bank of Zaire. Verification certificates are not required for import values (f.o.b.) of SDR 1,000 or less for each tariff item, or of SDR 5,000 or less for each shipment. Prior approval from the Bank of Zaire is required for (1) imports in the form of foreign contributions to capital intended for resale; (2) imports financed by suppliers' credits or other interest-bearing foreign financing with a maturity of more than one year, except imports contracted or guaranteed by the Government; (3) imports requiring a down payment in foreign currency before shipment; and (4) imports requiring special authorization from the Govern- ment and imports of currency, coins, and articles imitating or bearing the monetary symbols of Zairian currency. Prior approval from the Bank of Zaire is no longer required for imports by air provided that (1) such imports are of an emergency nature; (2) goods to be imported are fragile or perishable; or (3) the cost to the final destination in Zaire is less than or equiva- lent to any other means of transport. The customs tariff rates range from 15 percent to 50 percent, with a special rate of 5 percent for some equipment. The rate of the turnover tax ranges from zero to 20 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 533 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles must be made through an authorized bank. When the approval of the Bank of Zaire is required, it must be requested by the authorized banks concerned. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign exchange of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. However, outward remittances of salaries of expatriate employees are limited to the levels authorized dur- ing the preceding year. The transfer abroad of sala- ries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 percent of net salary, provided that the nontrans- ferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, payment of inter- est on private loans and certain portions of insur- ance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation are authorized. Transfers of rental income received by nonresidents and residents who are foreign nation- als are suspended. Payments for commissions, bro- kerage charges and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in new za'ires or in foreign currency for trips originating in Zaire. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange from banks or authorized financial institutions, including money changers. Residents who are foreign nationals and who are entitled to transfer part of their income abroad are not allowed to obtain foreign currency from authorized banks to pay for their tickets for international travel and their living expenses abroad involving private travel. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and house- holds residing in the border area are entitled to pur- chase the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs a month. The exportation of Zairian banknotes and coins by residents and nonresidents is permitted only up to the equivalent of $100. However, the exportation of Zairian banknotes and coins by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda is authorized within the limits of the agreements concluded between the members o f t h eCEPGL. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must file an exchange document (decla- ration of foreign exchange commitment), which banks are normally authorized to validate, for all exports. These declarations must specify the type of merchandise to be exported, its price, and the cur- rency in which payment is to be received. Declara- tions of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for 90 days. Exports must be carried out and proceeds must be received and surrendered within this period, which must not exceed 45 days from the date of shipment, except for export earnings from artisanal gold and diamonds which must be repatri- ated before the declaration of foreign exchange com- mitment is validated at a bank. Exporters are authorized to retain the following in their RME accounts at authorized banks: (1) 70 per- cent of their export-generated revenue from artisa- nal gold and diamonds, and 40 percent from all other goods, to the extent that repatriation occurs within the legally required period of 45 days from the date of shipment, except for the exports by Gecamine, which are under discussion; and (2) 100 percent of funds received as prefinancing for products intended for exportation. The correspond- ing ratios are: 45 percent for Generale des carrieres et des mines du Zaire, 50 percent for Societe de devel- oppement industriel et minier du Zaire, and 20 per- cent for Societe miniere de Bakwanga. The Bank of Zaire may authorize the holding abroad of a portion of earnings from exports. The exportation, turnover, and statistical taxes on coffee exports have been suspended. Economic transactors may export coffee, subject to inspection and quality certificates issued respectively by the OZAC and the Zairian Office for Coffee (OZACAF). As in the case of other export products, coffee may be exported under prefinancing contracts. Artisanal gold and diamonds may be exported only through authorized marketing agencies (comp- toirs agrees). The Bank of Zaire purchases and exports gold on its own account, along with the authorized market- ing agencies in the market. Industrial diamonds and gold may be exported directly by the mining compa- nies involved. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and transferred through authorized banks. A declaration must be made for each transaction and checked by the bank. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to a resident foreign currency account. An unlimited amount of banknotes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought into the country by resident and nonresi- dent travelers. The importation of Zairian banknotes and coins is permitted only up to the equivalent of $100. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 Capital ZAIRE The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is per- mitted only at the time of liquidation, nationaliza- tion, or partial or total transfers of shares. Borrowed capital and equity contributions are authorized. Transfers abroad of such contributions made under the Investment Code are guaranteed. The Bank of Zaire also guarantees transfers abroad of interest, dividends, and profits in respect of foreign capital. Gold Only Zairian nationals are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold within Zaire outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive mining concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate per- sons and corporate persons under Zairian law may do so only on behalf of and for the account of autho- rized marketing agencies. Exports of gold and dia- monds by authorized marketing agencies do not require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Changes During 1995 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. All foreign exchange transactions take place at mar- ket-determined exchange rates. The official exchange rate of the Bank of Zambia is determined by the weighted-average buying exchange rate quoted by commercial banks through the dealing window of the Bank of Zambia. A spread of ±2 percent is applied to the weighted average dealing rate to arrive at the Bank of Zambia's buying and selling rates. The Bank of Zambia's official rate applies to that portion of for- eign exchange purchased from the market, the most important being the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM), and to government transactions, including donor assistance and debt service. The Bank of Zambia conducts daily interbank dealing sessions at which it invites bids and offers from authorized dealers (i.e., registered commercial banks). On the basis of the bids and offers received, as well as other budgetary considerations (such as government and Bank of Zambia requirements, donor assistance funds, and export earnings), the Bank of Zambia determines the amount of foreign exchange to be sold to or purchased from the mar- ket. In addition to the Bank of Zambia dealing mar- ket, there is an emerging interbank market. Exchange rates in this market closely follow those established at the Bank of Zambia's dealing window. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and authorized commercial banks in U.S. dollars, which is also its currency of intervention. However, banks are free to deal in currencies of their choice, on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in the major international foreign exchange markets. With the lifting of exchange controls, all fees and charges applied by commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are determined competitively. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Banks are allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions. Foreign exchange bureaus are required to maintain open for- eign exchange positions of up to 25 percent of their capital. Any breach of the open position limits may be subject to a penalty from the Bank of Zambia. ment that (1) the ZCCM must sell all or part of its foreign exchange earnings to the Bank of Zambia until a more integrated interbank market develops and foreign exchange earnings from nontraditional exports become significant; and (2) prior approval of the Bank of Zambia must be obtained for servicing of private debt incurred prior to January 28, 1994. The Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry is responsible for trade control. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including import pay- ments, from residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency. Pay- ments from residents of other countries may be made in pounds sterling or in Zambian kwacha from an external account, or in any currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. External Accounts Both residents and nonresidents are free to estab- lish and maintain foreign currency accounts at com- mercial banks in Zambia and abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports in general require a license for statistical purposes, which are granted automatically by com- mercial banks. Personal and household effects, trade samples, diplomatic shipments, and vehicles brought into Zambia temporarily do not require a license. Imports are subject to preshipment inspection except when the f.o.b. value of each import consign- ment is less than $10,000. Imports are subject to a tariff with a minimum rate of 20 percent and a maximum rate of 50 percent (except for a few luxury goods). Some imports are exempt under the provisions of bilateral agreements, and nontraditional exporters and certain competing import firms are exempt under the 1991 Investment Act. In addition, imported goods are subject to an "uplift factor" in computing domestic sales tax. Administration of Control Payments for Invisibles All exchange controls were abolished as of Janu- ary 28, 1994. The only exceptions are the require- All payments for invisibles, except external debt- service payments, may be effected through banks 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 536 ZAMBIA and foreign exchange bureaus without the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia. Remittances of profits and dividends may be made without restric- tion after payment of all taxes. Foreign nationals working on contract in Zambia may remit any amount including "inducement allow- ances" and gratuities without restriction. Payments to expatriates employed by the ZCCM and other export- ers may be made from the exporters' exchange hold- ings or from the foreign exchange market. Travelers may take out any amount in any cur- rency without prior permission, although they are required to make a declaration if the amounts involved exceed the equivalent of $5,500. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form for statistical purposes. Although export licenses are required for most goods, they are administered routinely by commer- cial banks under the authority delegated by the Min- istry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry. Exports of white maize and fertilizers may be subject to quanti- tative restrictions when domestic supplies are short; exports of ivory are prohibited. Forty-five percent of the foreign exchange earnings of the ZCCM must be surrendered to the Bank of Zambia. Exporters of nontraditional products are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange earnings without restriction. or domestic currency notes a traveler may bring in, but amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared at customs. Capital All borrowings outside Zambia must be registered with the Bank of Zambia for statistical purposes. Outward transfers of capital are free of controls. Dis- investment and repatriation of capital are also unre- stricted, subject to verification that no tax obligations are due. No restrictions apply to the sale of assets between foreigners and between Zambians and for- eigners. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is unrestricted. Nonresidents may participate in the treasury bill and government bond markets without restriction and are free to remit proceeds from the sales of these instruments after payment of applica- ble taxes. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic and any other purpose. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require approval from the Ministry of Mines. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may be retained in full. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange April 24. The Bank of Zambia began to deal in for- eign exchange operations on a daily basis instead of three times a week. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of December 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dol- lar. The external value of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the exchange market. The U.S. dollar is the interven- tion currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for all currencies. Authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks) may charge an additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies. The authorized dealers base their rates for other cur- rencies on current international market rates. On December 31,1995, the exchange rate quoted by the Reserve Bank was Z$8.3472 per US$1. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the size of such contracts, but their duration must be at least one year, depending on the currencies involved and the type of coverage. The Reserve Bank does not offer forward foreign exchange contracts. Forward sales of foreign exchange take place at the spot pref- erential telex transfer rate plus a premium loading for six months, depending on the currencies involved and type of coverage. Authorized dealers are expected to quote to their customers the dealers' own telex transfer rates. Authorized dealers are sub- ject to overnight net foreign currency exposure lim- its, but no other restrictions from the Reserve Bank apply to interbank trading. Zimbabwe accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on Febru- ary 5,1995. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under powers delegated by the Minister of Finance, in keeping with the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Authorized dealers may approve certain for- eign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Authorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars (issued periodically). Prescription of Currency With the exception of payments otherwise speci- fied or effected through nonresident accounts, all payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies.1 Under the Clearing House Agreement, which went into effect on February 1, 1984, within the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), residents of member countries may use national cur- rencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by per- sons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emi- grants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are subject to various exchange restrictions. Residents and nonresident individuals may open foreign currency accounts in one of the denominated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market- determined exchange rates. Funds withdrawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the initial investment, and income or capital gains from investments in the stock exchange, unlisted companies, or money markets. Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements. The negative list for imports includes items restricted for 1 Seventeen denominated currencies are freely convertible through authorized dealers: Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afr ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 ZIMBABWE health or security reasons as well as textiles and apparel, alcoholic beverages, canned beverages, nonmonetary gold, pearls, precious and semipre- cious stones, and some jewelry items. Imports of cer- tain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agricultural prod- ucts (coffee, maize, sorghum, soybeans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the per- mission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricul- tural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided the necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is sub- mitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign cur- rency. Authorized dealers may provide foreign exchange for advanced payment for imports up to US$50,000. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to a maximum of 35 percent of the c.i.f. value for most consumer goods (up to 60 percent to 75 percent for vehicles) with a surtax of 10 percent, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax (between 12.5 percent and 20 percent) equivalent to the sales taxes imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestically. Govern- ment imports and capital goods for statutory bodies are exempt from customs duties. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits, for other pur- poses is provided by commercial banks under dele- gated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. All dividends declared by foreign investors in the export sector after January 1, 1995 may be remitted to foreign shareholders without restriction after pay- ment of applicable taxes. If direct foreign exchange allocation was used, the following rules apply: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that meets the crite- ria to qualify as an export firm, and funds its projects through a combination of foreign exchange, "switched blocked funds/' or surplus funds, is per- mitted to remit the declared dividends from net after-tax profits on a basis proportionate to the level of foreign exchange invested but limited to a maxi- mum of 50 percent for five years from the beginning of operations, after which the company will qualify for 100 percent remittance of dividends (blocked and surplus funds are assets held by foreigners as a result of the limited remittance of dividends; switched blocked funds are blocked funds pur- chased by a foreigner from the original owner); (2) a wholly foreign-owned company with its own blocked funds is permitted to repatriate 100 percent of its declared dividends, provided it meets all its foreign exchange requirements from external sources; and (3) in the case of a new joint venture that meets the criteria to qualify as an export firm and has at least 30 percent local participation, the foreign partner is allowed to remit 100 percent of its share of declared dividends, provided that it meets its share of foreign exchange requirements from external sources. Outward remittances in respect of services are subject to a 20 percent tax; in cases that fall under double taxation agreements, the tax rate is 10 percent. Foreign companies established prior to September 1979 are permitted to remit 50 percent of net after-tax profits if exports comprise more than 25 percent of total sales. The following regulations apply to investments in the mining sector: (1) a wholly foreign-owned com- pany that funds its projects through foreign funds is allowed to repatriate 100 percent of its net after-tax profits, provided that it qualifies as an export- oriented project; (2) a wholly foreign-owned com- pany that funds its projects through a combination of foreign funds and either its own blocked funds, switched blocked funds, or surplus funds (subject to a minimum matching formula of 50-50) is allowed to remit dividends of up to 50 percent in proportion to the matching ratio; and (3) the level of dividend remittance for joint ventures subject to the minimum 30 percent local participation criterion is also deter- mined by the matching formula used by the foreign shareholder. Af ter five years, the company can remit 100 percent of its dividends to the foreign share- holder. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is US$5,000 a year. Children under ten years are entitled to one-half this amount. The basic for- eign exchange allowance for business travel is US$600 a day. Applications for holiday and business travel allowances exceeding the specified limits are subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank and are granted in bona fide cases. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level for certain diploma and degree courses up to US$50,000 a year. All applications for educational allowances must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 539 submitted to the Reserve Bank for approval. For medical treatment, foreign exchange is provided up to US$20,000 a trip for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Applications for addi- tional amounts must be submitted to the Reserve Bank for approval. Applications for emigrant status must be submit- ted to the Reserve Bank; the settling-in allowance that emigrants may remit abroad is limited to Z$l,000 a family unit. In exceptional and deserving cases, the exchange control authorities will consider applications exceeding this maximum. All those applying for emigrant status are required to take steps to liquidate their assets within six months and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4 percent, 12-year Zimba- bwean government external bonds. If emigrants are unable to comply with the six-month limit, the mat- ter may be referred to the Reserve Bank. Transfer- able allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) each person under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) each person aged 40-59 years, Z$l,000; (3) family units and single persons (under 60 years of age) with dependents, Z$l,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$l0,000; and (6) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$l0,000. A fur ther release of capital is authorized as an annual allowance on each anniversary of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to Z$250 in Zimba- bwean currency, together with a maximum of the equivalent of US$500 in foreign banknotes. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in, less the amount they sold to autho- rized dealers. Upon departure from Zimbabwe, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zim- babwean currency into foreign currencies on presen- tation of exchange certificates. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must have licenses to export the follow- ing: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufactured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) ju te and hes- sian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. Export-licensing requirements are imposed for reasons of health and social welfare, as well as to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Export permits are required from the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture for some basic agricultural commodities, including maize, oilseeds, cheese, skimmed milk, seeds, potatoes, citrus fruits, apples, bananas, and tomatoes. Goods may not be exported without permission unless the customs authorities are satisfied that pay- ment has been made in an approved manner or will be made within three months of the date of ship- ment (or a longer period if permitted by the Reserve Bank). Payments for exports must be received in one of the following ways: (1) in a denominated cur- rency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresi- dent account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula. Exporters are permitted to retain 100 percent of proceeds in foreign exchange. Under the PTA arrangement, member countries may use national currencies in the settlement of payments during a transaction period of two months, with net balances at the end of this period to be settled in con- vertible currencies. Exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if the payment is covered by an irrevoca- ble letter of credit issued or confirmed before expor- tation by a reputable overseas bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized banks within a reasonable period of time. Res- idents performing services abroad may also retain a portion of their earnings. Foreign currency and trav- eler's checks may be imported without restriction but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean currency up to a maximum of Z$250. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal bank- ing channels are not restricted. The limit on foreign borrowing without prior approval of the External Loans Coordinating Committee is US$5 million. Outward transfers of capital are controlled. How- ever, all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation up to the value of capital invested less dividends transferred abroad. The bal- ance may be transferred only through the estab- lished medium of six-year external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 ZIMBABWE Repatriation of net equity may be permitted without restriction if funds are used to acquire foreign exchange and if dividends were not remitted with such funds. The repatriation of capital invested before September 1, 1979 is prohibited; however, share- holders are allowed, within limits, to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such appli- cation is approved, the capital is invested in external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year and carrying a maturity of 12 years (for individuals) or 20 years (for firms). Repatriation of net equity at accelerated rates that depend on dis- counted sales prices is allowed. Former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in government external bonds with a ma tu r i ty of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4 percent. Remittance of a former resident's Zimbabwean pension is guaranteed under the constitution. All other outward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. Previously blocked funds, whether already con- verted into government bonds or not, can qualify as new venture capital if they are reinvested in Zimba- bwe in an approved project and matched by an inflow of investment funds of up to 50 percent of the reinvested blocked funds, as determined by the Reserve Bank. Blocked funds can be used by third parties, foreign as well as domestic, for investment on freely negotiated terms as new venture capital; the total investment is eligible to be remitted as divi- dends for up to 50 percent of after-tax profits. How- ever, the "blocked" portion of the new investment, unlike new venture capital, must be reinvested in Zimbabwe for at least five years. Gold producers undertaking new expansion projects are permitted access to offshore financing in the form of gold loans. Foreign investors are permitted to participate in the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Market using cur- rency received in Zimbabwe through normal bank- ing channels. Purchase of shares by foreign investors is limited to 25 percent of the total equity of the com- pany, with a limit of 5 percent for one investor. These limits are in addition to any existing foreign share- holdings in the companies. The initial investment plus any capital gains and dividend income may be remitted without restriction. Foreign investors may also invest up to a maximum of 15 percent of the assets brought to Zimbabwe in primary issues of bonds and stocks. Locally owned companies (greater than 75 percent equity owned by residents) may buy blocked funds from the original owners for investment purposes by using funds from the export retention scheme, provided that they export at least 75 percent of their output. Direct foreign investments up to US$40 million in the preferred areas (mining, agro-industry, manufac- turing, tourism, and high-technology services) are approved by the Zimbabwe Investment Centre (ZIC). In the preferred areas, 100 percent foreign ownership is permitted; it is restricted to 25 percent in other areas. Gold The exportation of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed under the Control of Goods (exportation of minerals and metals) Order, 1979, which is administered by the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal or certain other specified metals and minerals without an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which requires those intend- ing to import gold into Zimbabwe to meet certain requirements. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless that person is (1) the holder of a license or permit; (2) the holder or dis- tributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an employer or principal to deal in or possess gold that is already in the lawful pos- session of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing the acquisition, possession, or disposal of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed 1 troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can be issued only by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recov- ery works license, and a gold assaying license. Bar- clays Bank of Zimbabwe, Ltd., is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the act. Each holder or dis- tributor of a registered mining location is required to lodge with this bank all gold acquired each month by the tenth day of the following month. Any person intending to smelt gold or any article containing gold must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act that authorizes the possession of smelt- ing equipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement February 5. Zimbabwe accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Articles of Agreement. Payments for Invisibles September 6. The maximum amount of foreign cur- rency in cash that Zimbabwean travelers may carry when traveling abroad was increased from US$200 to US$500, or its equivalent in other foreign currencies. ZIMBABWE Capital 541 February 1. A timetable for the liquidation, over a three-year period starting July 1, 1995, of blocked funds relating to profits and dividends earned on foreign investments made prior to May 1993 was established. September 6. (I) The "switching" of blocked funds, which allowed release of blocked funds under cer- tain conditions if purchased by a foreign investor or local exporter, was discontinued; (2) Foreign invest- ments of up to 25 percent, in aggregate, in primary issues of stocks and bonds were permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX European Union: Selected Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated on an EU-Wide Basis During 19951 Common Import Policy 1. Antidumping Activities May 29. Changes in antidumping and countervail- ing duty procedures, including new time limits for the procedures, were adopted by the Council and entered into force on September 1,1995. The changes transposed Uruguay Round rules into EU legislation (Council Regulations Nos. 1251/95 and 1252/95). The European Union undertook the following numbers of antidumping actions in 1995: investiga- tions, 33; provisional duties, 24; definitive duties, 13; reviews, 26; temporary suspensions, 3; and termina- tions, 8. Major actions included the following: March 27. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of television sets from the Peo- ple's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand (Council Regula- tion No. 710/95). August 16. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of ammonium nitrate from the Russian Federation (Council Regulation No. 2022/ 95). October 2. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of photocopiers from Japan after a review of a case (Council Regulation No. 2380/95). October 6. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of ferro-silico-manganese from Brazil, the Russian Federation, South Africa, and Ukraine (Council Regulation No. 2413/95). October 10. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of disodium carbonate from the United States (Council Regulation No. 2381/95). December 22. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of microwave ovens from the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand (Council Regulation No. 5/ 96). 2. Safeguards January 16. The Commission adopted a regulation introducing provisional quantitative limits on imports of certain textile products from the People's ]Sources: Official Journals of the European Communities; Gen- eral Report on the Activities of the European Union; 1995; Euro- pean Report. 542 Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 59 / 95). February 27. The Commission adopted a regula- tion introducing modified quantitative limits on imports of certain textile products from Pakistan (Commission Regulation No. 405/95). March 7. The Commission adopted a regulation imposing definitive quantitative limits on imports of certain textile products from India and Indonesia (Commission Regulation No. 507/95). 3. Preferences May 22. The Council approved the accession of Zambia to the Protocol on sugar of the fourth Lome Convention effective January 1, 1995 (Council Deci- sion 95/185/EC). July 17. The Council adopted agreements on pref- erential import quotas for unrefined cane sugar with African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) sugar suppli- ers and India for the period July 1, 1995 to June 30, 2001 (Council Decision No. 95/284/EC). October 23. The application by the European Union of tariff preferences for imports of certain agricultural goods from South Africa was extended for 1995 (Council Regulation No. 2651/95). October 30. The Council adopted a decision pro- viding for implementation of the fourth Lome Con- vention by the new EU members (Austria, Finland, and Sweden) and the ACP countries (Bulletin 10- 1995, Point 1.4.115). December 22. The Council adopted a regulation extending application of generalized tariff prefer- ences for certain agricultural products for six months (Council Regulation No. 3058/95). 4. Other Import Measures February 20. The EU Council adopted a decision authorizing provisional implementation of protocols adjusting bilateral textiles agreements with numer- ous suppliers to take into account the accession to the European Union of Austria, Finland, and Swe- den (Bulletin 1/2-1995, Point 1.4.61). March 1. The European Commission established tariff quotas for banana imports for 1995 in which 2.2 million tons would come from nontraditional (i.e., non-ACP) suppliers. March 6. The rules governing imports from state- trading countries were amended in order to take account of EU enlargement resulting in changes in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 543 the system of non-textile import quotas applying to the People's Republic of China. March 31. The European Commission and the Ministry of Trade and Industry of Japan extended an arrangement regarding Japanese exports of automo- biles to the European Union, establishing overall export levels to the European Union and expected levels of exports to five protected markets (France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom) for 1995. The export ceilings were also modified to take account of EU enlargement. April 4. The European Commission approved an increase in imports of bananas under its tariff quota system to take account of the accession to the Euro- pean Union of Austria, Finland, and Sweden. April 10. The rules governing imports from state- trading countries were amended to terminate their applicability to the Baltic countries. April 11. The European Commission adopted a regulation establishing definitive quantitative limits on imports of certain textile products from the Peo- ple's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 810/95). June 6. The Council adopted a regulation adjusting Community import quotas on textiles with third countries as a result of the accession to the European Union of Austria, Finland, and Sweden (Council Regulation No. 1325/95). June 13. The Council approved an agreement between the European Union and the People's Republic of China adjusting the rates of increase and flexibility of textile import quotas (Bulletin 6-1995, Point 1.4.38). June 13. The Council approved a textile trade agreement between the European Union and Mon- golia to run through end-1997 (Bulletin 6-1995, Point 1.4.39). July 24. The Council approved a regulation setting quotas on rum imported from ACP states for the period July 1, 1995-December 31, 1995, prior to the entry into force of a new rum import regime begin- ning in 1996. October 6. The European Union reduced the 1995 import targets for automobiles from Japan in order to reflect an expected decline in sales growth. October 31. The Council adopted a regulation phasing out quotas on rum imported from ACP states by the year 2000. November 13. The European Union introduced a system for the surveillance of imports of certain tex- tile and clothing items from the United Arab Emir- ates, pending conclusion of a bilateral textile and clothing agreement (Commission Regulation No. 2635/95). December 7. The European Commission signed a steel import agreement with the Russian Federation covering 1995 and 1996. Russian quotas were set at 309,000 metric tons in 1995 (Bulletin 12-1995, Point 1.4.37). December 15. The European Commission signed a steel import agreement with Ukraine covering 1995 and 1996, with Ukrainian quotas set at 131,000 met- ric tons for 1995 (Bulletin 12-1995, Point 1.4.37). December 22. The Council adopted a provisional decision implementing a renewal of a bilateral agreement with amendments on textile trade with the People's Republic of China previously covered under the Multifiber Arrangement, which was scheduled to expire at end-1995. December 22. The Council adopted a regulation extending for three years autonomous arrangements covering textiles imports from Taiwan Province of China, which were scheduled to expire at end-1995 (Council Regulation No. 3060/95). December 22. The Council decided to implement provisionally amendments to a textile import agree- ment with Vietnam. December 22. The Council adopted revised proto- cols to the European Agreements dealing with tex- tile imports from Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. December 22. The Council adopted a provisional decision implementing a protocol on textile trade with Slovenia, whereby all quantitative restrictions would be eliminated by January 1,1998, and Slove- nia would eliminate all duties on textiles by January 1,2001. December 22. The Council adopted a provisional decision to apply renewed agreements on textile trade for two years with Egypt, Malta, Morocco, and Tunisia that were scheduled to expire at end-1995. December 22. The Council authorized provisional implementation of renewed bilateral textile and clothing trade agreements with Belarus, the Russian Federation, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan, which were scheduled to expire at end-1995. Multilateral and Regional Developments 1. Multilateral Developments January 1. The United States and the European Union reached agreement on an interim six-month set of compensating tariffs and quotas to offset increases due to EU enlargement to include Austria, Finland, and Sweden. February 6. The Council authorized negotiations under Article XXIV:6 of GATT, 1994, to adjust tariff bindings and other commitments as a result of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 APPENDIX accession to the European Union of Austria, Finland, and Sweden (Bulletin 1/2-1995, Point 1.4.28). June 29. The Council adopted a regulation reduc- ing import duties on newsprint earlier than commit- ted to under the Uruguay Round to compensate Canada under GATT Article XXIV:6 for the accession to the European Union of Austria, Finland, and Swe- den (Council Regulation No. 1644/95). July 25. The European Commission and Norway signed an agreement giving Norway duty-free quo- tas for fish exports to the European Union in com- pensation for the accession to the European Union of Austria, Finland, and Sweden. December 22. The Council adopted a regulation applying tariff reductions resulting from negotia- tions with the European Union's major trading part- ners under GATT Article XXIV:6 (Bulletin 12-1995, Point 1.4.17). 2. Regional Developments January 1. The European Union was enlarged to include Austria, Finland, and Sweden. January 1. Free-trade agreements between the European Union and the Baltic countries (Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania) entered into force. January 23. The European Union signed a partner- ship and cooperation agreement with Kazakstan (Bulletin 1/2-1995, Point 1.4.97). February 1. The Europe Association Agreements with Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Romania, and the Slovak Republic entered into force (Bulletin 1/2- 1995, Point 1.4.73). February 9. The European Union signed a partner- ship and cooperation agreement with Kyrgyzstan (Bulletin 1/2-1995, Point 1.4.99). March 6. The European Union signed a partner- ship and cooperation agreement with Belarus (Bulle- tin 3-1995, Point 1.4.70). March 6. The EU-Turkey Association Council reached an agreement on the formation of a customs union (Bulletin 3-1995, Point 1.4.65). June 1. The European Union signed an interim agreement implementing the trade provisions of a partnership and cooperation agreement with Ukraine (Bulletin 6-1995, Point 1.4.93). June 12. Europe Association Agreements were signed with Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania (Bulletin 6-1995, Point 1.4.63). July 17. A Euro-Mediterranean Association Agree- ment was signed with Tunisia (Bulletin 7/8-1995, Point 1.4.84). July 17. The European Union signed an interim agreement implementing the trade provisions of a partnership and cooperation agreement with the Russian Federation (Bulletin 7/8-1995, Point 1.4.89). October 2. The European Union signed an interim agreement implementing the trade provisions of a partnership and cooperation agreement with Mol- dova (Bulletin 10-1995, Point 1.4.88). November 20. A Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement was signed with Israel (Bulletin 11-1995, Point 1.4.69). December 5. The European Union signed an interim agreement to implement the trade provi- sions of the partnership and cooperation agreement with Kazakstan (Bulletin 12-1995, Point 1.4.99). December 15. The European Union and the MER- COSUR countries (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay) signed an interregional framework coop- eration agreement (Bulletin 12-1995, Point 1.4.111). December 21. The Council adopted a regulation providing for advanced implementation of EU con- cessions to Morocco for certain agricultural products under a Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement (Council Regulation No. 3057/95). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first For key and footnotes, see page 552. 546 A l n a b i a A l e g i r a A o g n l a A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b A r n e g i t a n m A r n e i a A r a b u A u s r t a i l a A u s i r t a A e z r a b j i n a B a h a m s a , T e h B h a r a i n B g n a l s e d a h B a r o d a b s B e l a r u s B e l g i u m d n a L e x u m u o b r g B e i l e z B n e i n B u h t n a B o i l v i a B o s a n i H e r v o g e z i a n B o t s w a n a B r z a l i B r e n u i D a r u a s s l a m B u l a g i r a A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the French f ranc (Hi) other currencies4 (iv) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility w i th respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (Hi) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions a n d / or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Export Proceeds 1. Repatriation requirement 2. Surrender requirement 9 0 9 9 9 ~™~ 9 9 0 9 9 O 9 0 9 9 0 t O 9 9 t 0 0 9 0 9 ^ 0 0 £ 0 0 0 0 e ^ 0 0 0 ^ 0 0 0 ^ 0 ^ 0 ^ 0 0 0 0 £ 0 0 0 0 0 ^ 0 0 9 ^ 0 0 £ £ 0 ^ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 11 1 1 111 11 11 11 111 1 1 11 11 1 11 1 1 1111111111111111 1111111 11111111111111 •11 1111 1111 111 1 11111111 1 1 1 ' •1 11 11 1 11 1 1 1 111 111 111 11111111 11 1 1111111 111111111 111111111111 11111111111111 1111 111 11111111111 111 111111 1 11 1 111 11111 1 11 1111111 1111111111 11111111111 1111111111 1 1111111111 11111111111 1111 11111 1 1111111111 11111111111 1111 11111 1 11111111 1 11111111111 1111111111 1 1111 11111111111111111 11 1111 1 11 11 11 111111 11 1 11111 1 1111111 1 11111111 111111111111111 11111111111111 111111111111111111 11111 111111111 111 111111111111111111111111 11111111111111 1 111 1111111111 111111 1111111 111111 111111111111111111111111 11111 11111111 11 11 111 1 111111111 111 111111 111 1111111111111111111 111 11111111111111 1 11 11 111111111111 11 1 11111 1 11 11 111 11 1 1 1 sX I B u r k i a n F s a o B u r d n u i C a m d o b i a C a m e r n o o C a d a n a C e p a V e r e d C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R b u p e i l c C d a h C h l i e C h i a n C o l o m b i a C o m o r o s C o g n o C o s t a R i a c C o t e d l ' o v r i e C r a o i t a C p y r u s C h c e z R b u p e i l c D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i n i a c D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S a l o d a v r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n E r t i r a e E s t n o i a E t h i p o i a F _ i j i F i n l d n a F r e c n a G n o b a G a m b i a , T e h G o e r g i a C t f l r m n a v Trade Systems in Member Countries1 country page)2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first For key and footnotes, see page 552. 548 G a n a h G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G u i a e n G u i a e n - B i u a s s G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o r s a H g n o K g n o H a g n u r y I e c l d n a I d n i a I s e n o d n i a r I n a , s I l a m i c R p e . o f r I e l d n a r s I e a l t I a l y a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K k a z a s t n a K a y n e K i r i a b i t K o r a e A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange A r rangemen t3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the French f r anc (Hi) other currencies4 (iv) a composite of currencies (b) Limited f lex ib i l i ty w i th respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative a r rangement (c) More flexible arrangemen ts: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed f loa t ing (Hi) independen t ly f loa t ing 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all cap i tal transactions a n d / or some or all invisibles 3. More th an one rate for imports 4. More t h an one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) d i f f e r e nt from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. B i la teral Payments A r rangemen ts 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Paymen ts Restrictions 1. Restrictions on paymen ts for cur- rent transac t ions5 2. Restrictions on paymen ts for capi- tal transac t ions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Adv an ce import deposits G. Export Proceeds 1. Repa t r ia t ion requ irement 2. Surrender requ irement 0 4 0 9 9 t 9 9 0 9 O 0 0 9 9 9 £ 0 £ ~ 9 9 0 0 O 9 0 0 ~ 0 0 0 0 0 0 ^ ^ 0 0 ^ _ 0 _ 0 ^ _ 0 0 _ 0 0 + 0 0 0 o ^ 0 0 t ^ 0 e t ^ _ 0 _ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • — • • • — — • • • • — • • • — — • • — — • — — • — — • • — — • • • • • • • — — • — 11111 1 1 1111 111111 11 11 1 1 11 1 1 1111 11 1 1 111111111111111111111111 111111 1 1 11111111111111 11 1 11 1 11 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 11 1111 1 111111 111 1 111111 11111111 1 111111111111 11111111111 1 111 1 1 11 11 111 1 1 11111111 111111 11 1 1111 11 1111111 11111 1 111111111 1 111111111111111111111111 111111111 1 111111111111111111111111 111111111 1 111111111111111111111111 11111 111 1 11111 11111111111111111 11 1 1111 1 11111 1 1 1 11111 111 1 1 11111 11 1111 111111111111111 111111111 1 111111111111111111111 11 111111111 1 111111111111111111 11111 111111111 1 11111111111111111111111I 111111 1 1 11111 1111111 1 1 111111 11111 111 1 1111111111111111 1111111 111111111 1 1111 11111111111111111 1 111111 1 1 111111 111 11111111 111 11 11 1 11 111 111111 111111 1 111 1 1 1 1 111 1 K u w a t i K y r z y g R b u p e i l c L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . L a t v i a L n o n a b e L s e o h o t L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y L t i n a u h i a M n o d e c a i a , f o r m e r Y o g u s l v a R b u p e i l o c f M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M a l d i s e v M a i l M a t l a M a s r a h l l s I l d n a s M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M x e i o c M i c r s e n o i a , F d e . S t a t s e o f M o l a v o d M o g n o i l a M o r o c c o M a z o m b i e u q M n a y m a r N a m i b i a N a p e l N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a (pdnuijuoD) sau;uno3 laquiapv ui sraajsAg apwx (a§ed AijunoD 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first I "8 | | | 1 S, ^ | h i i i l . J i t i l J l l i i i i ! i t ! li z o < 2 £ £ £ £ £(2[£ < 5(§(i l 5 5 £ 5 5(S ! ; ? ! < J 5(§ £ < B l <I 0 49 49 49 49 49 49 41 41 0 0 0 t 9 49 0 49 0 49 ^ ^ 0 49 0 ^ 49 49 49 41 49 0 49 49 49 0 49 41 49 41 0 49 •"— ~"* ^~ 0 49 49 49 9 49 49 49 49 41 49 49 41 t A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangemen t3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (/) the U.S. dollar (ii) the French f r anc (H I) other currencies4 (iv) a composite of currencies (b) Limited f lex ib i l i ty w i th respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative a r rangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed f loa t ing (Hi) independen t ly f loa t ing 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions a n d / or some or all invisibles 3. More th an one rate for imports 4. More than one ra te for exports 5. Import rate(s) d i f f e r ent from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangemen ts 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Export Proceeds 1. Repa tr ia t ion requirement 2. Surrender requirement For key and footnotes, see page 552. 550 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — • — — • • • • — — • — • • — • — — • — — • • — — — — • • • — • • • • • • — • • • • — — • • — — • • • • • — — — • • 11 11 0 111 1 1 1111 1 1 9 1 11 11 11 1 111 1 1 f 11111 1111 111 1111111 1 11111111111 1 111 1111111 111 1 111111111111111111 11 111 1 11 1 111 1 1111 111 1 1111 1 1111 1 1 11111 111111111 11111111 11 11111 111 111 111 1111 1111 1111111 1111 11 11 111 11111 111 111111 1 111111 11 1 11111 1111 1 111111 1 111111111 1 1 111 1111 1 111111 1 111111111 11 1 1 11111 1111 1 111111 1 111111111 1 1 11111 1 111 . 111111 1 111111111 1 1 11 11 11 11 111 11 111 111 - 1 111 111 11 111 111 111111 111 111 11 111 1 11111 111111 111 11111111 111 1111111111111 111 111 I 111111 111 11111111 111 1111111111111 111 11111 111111 111 11111111 1" 1 11 1111111111 111 1 111 111111 111 11 1 111 111 1111111 11 11 1 11111 111 11 111 11111111 111 1111111111111 111 11111 111111 111 111 1111 111 1111111111111 111 11111 111111 1 11111111 111 11111111 11 1 111 11111 1111 111111 1 1111 11 1 1 11 111 11 11 11 1 1 11 11 n e v o S l i a o o S l m n o s I l d n a s u o S t h A i r f a c a p S i n S i r L a k n a n a d u S u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e S w t i e z l r d n a y S i r n a A r b a R b u p e i l c T a i j k i s t n a T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T a g n o T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k T u r k m n e i s t n a U a d n a g U k r a i e n U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t a t s e U r y a u g u U k e b z i s t n a V a u n a t u V e u z e n e l a V i e t a n m W s e t e r n S a m a o Y e m n e , R b u p e i l c o f Z a r i e Z a m b i a Z i m b a b w e Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded) country page)2 551 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange and trade system. - indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. n indicates that the composite is the SDR. 1 The listing includes the nonmetropolitan territory of Hong Kong, for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Exchange practices indicated in individual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. ^Usually December 31,1995. 3 It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not necessar- ily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. Exchange arrangements involving transactions at a unitary rate with one group of countries and at another unitary rate with a second group of countries are considered, from the viewpoint of the overall economy, to involve two separate rates for similar transactions. 4Australian dollar, deutsche mark, Indian rupee, Italian lira, Sin- gapore dollar, or South African rand. 5 Restrictions (i.e., official actions directly affecting the availability or cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on payments to member countries, other than restrictions evidenced by external payments arrears and restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted August 14,1952. 6 Resident-owned funds. 552 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Note: This list does not include acronyms of purely national institutions mentioned in the country chapters Definitions of Acronyms ACU Asian Clearing Union AFTA ASEAN free trade area (see ASEAN, below) AMU Asian monetary unit ANZCERTA Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement ASEAN Association of South East Asian Nations ATC Agreement of Textiles and Clothing BCEAO Central Bank of West African States (Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest) BEAC Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) BLEU Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union CACM Central American Common Market CAP Common agricultural policy (of the EU) CARICOM Caribbean Common Market CEEAC Economic Community of Central African States CEFTA Central European free trade area CEPGL Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries CEPT Common effective preferential tariff of the ASEAN free trade area CET Common external tariff (of CARICOM) CFA Communaute financiere africaine CIS Commonwealth of Independent States CMA Common monetary area CMEA Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (dissolved) COCOM Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls ECCB Eastern Caribbean Central Bank ECLAC Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Ecoms Economic Community of West African States (Cedeao) ECSC European Coal and Steel Community ECU European currency un it EEA European economic area EFTA European Free Trade Association EMS European monetary system ERM Exchange rate mechanism (of the EMS) EU European Union (formerly European Community) GATT General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade GCC Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gu lf) GSP Generalized system of preferences HCDCS Harmonized commodity description and coding system LAIA Latin American Integration Association LIBOR London interbank offered rate MERCOSUR Southern Cone Common Market MFA Multifiber Arrangement MFN Most favored nation MTN Multilateral trade negotiations (the Uruguay Round) NAFTA North American Free Trade Agreement NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development OECS Organization of Eastern Caribbean States OGL Open general license PTA Preferential trade area for Eastern and Southern African states SACU Southern African Customs Union SPARTECA South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement 553 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Definitions of Acronyms UAPTA Unit of account of the PTA UDEAC Central African Customs and Economic Union WAEC West African Economic Community (CEAO) (dissolved) WAEMU West African Economic and Monetary Union (formely WAMU) WAMU West African Monetary Union WTO World Trade Organization (supercedes GATT) 554 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 