 ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1980 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1980 Washington, D.C. 1 7 6 0 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund June 26,1980 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transm it to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1980, which has been prepared in accordance w i th the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ J. DE LAROSIERE Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page PART ONE in Res tr ic t ive I. Introduction II. Main Developments Practices Imports and Import Payments Quan t i ta t ive Import Controls Import Surcharges and Import Taxation Advance Import Deposits Other Measures A f fec t ing Import Payments State Trading Exports and Export Proceeds Current Invisibles Payments Arrears Multiple Currency Practices Bilateral Payments Arrangements . .. Capital Flows Gold III. Main Developments Arrangements in Regional PART Two Explanatory Note to Coun t ry Surveys . . . Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Benin Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile 3 8 8 8 10 11 12 13 13 15 16 17 18 19 24 24 30 31 33 36 40 45 49 53 54 58 61 66 69 72 73 80 82 85 88 90 91 94 97 Ch ina, People's Republic of* Colombia Comoros Congo, People's Repub l ic of the Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Gu inea Ethiopia Fiji F in land France Gabon The Gamb ia Ge rmany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Gu inea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kampuchea, Democratic! Kenya , Page 101 109 I ll 114 117 120 124 125 127 130 134 138 141 143 145 147 151 158 161 163 167 170 175 177 178 180 182 184 185 187 188 191 200 203 207 210 214 217 222 225 228 232 235 * On A p r il 17, 1980, a f t er the end of the per iod covered by the c o u n t ry su rveys in t h is R epo r t, the Fund decided th at the Gove rnment of the People's R epub l ic of Ch ina represen ted C h i na in the Fund. t The Fund has not received f r om the a u t h o r i t i es of Democratic Kampuchea the i n f o rm a t i on r equ i r ed for a descr ip t ion of the exchange and t rade system as of December 31, 1979. Vll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page Page Korea 238 Kuwait 241 Lao People's Democratic Republic . . .. 242 Lebanon 243 Lesotho 245 Liberia 246 Libyan Arab Jamahiriya 247 Madagascar 250 Malawi 253 Malaysia 255 Maldives 258 Mali 259 Malta 261 Mauritania 263 Mauritius 265 Mexico 268 Morocco 270 Nepal 275 Netherlands 278 Netherlands Antilles 282 New Zealand 284 Nicaragua 288 Niger 291 Nigeria 294 Norway 298 Oman 300 Pakistan 301 Panama 308 Papua New Guinea 309 Paraguay 311 Peru 314 Philippines 320 Portugal 326 Qatar 330 Romania 331 Rwanda 334 St. Lucia 336 "St. Vincent and the Grenadines 337 Sao Tome and Principe 338 . Saudi Arabia 340 Senegal 341 Seychelles 344 Sierra Leone 345 Singapore 348 Solomon Islands 350 Somalia 352 South A f r ica 355 Southern Rhodesia 361 Spain 363 Sri Lanka 369 Sudan 375 Suriname 378 Swaziland 381 Sweden 382 Switzerland 387 Syrian Arab Republic 389 Tanzania 392 Thailand 394 Togo 398 Tr in idad and Tobago 401 Tunisia 405 Turkey 409 Uganda 416 United A rab Emirates 419 Un i ted K ingdom 420 United States 423 Upper Volta 428 U ruguay 431 Venezuela 434 Viet Nam 436 Western Samoa 437 Yemen Arab Republic 439 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of 440 Yugoslavia 442 Zaire 447 Zambia 452 Ana ly t ical Appendix 455 Vlll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT O NE ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction1 The past year has been a period of slower eco- nomic growth in the indus t r ial countries, of higher average rates of in f la t ion both in those countries and in the developing countries, and of rising imbal- ances in the external current accounts of each of the main groups of countries. For the industrial coun- tries as a group,2 the increase in real gross na t ional product (GNP) amounted to about 3.5 per cent in 1979, compared w i th near ly 4 per cent in the two preceding years and well over 5 per cent in 1976. The 1979 slowdown was mainly a reflection of developments in the economies of the United States and the United Kingdom, where annual gains in real output were sharply lower than in 1978. In Western Europe as a whole, and in Japan, rates of increase in real GNP continued to strengthen moderately in 1979, but remained well below those generally pre- vailing prior to the early 1970s. In the non indus tr ial countries, the average growth of ou tput receded somewhat in 1979 from the rates recorded in the previous few years. However, this weaken ing of out- put trends reflected mainly developments in Asia. Elsewhere, growth rates tended to be either sustained or, as in several countries in Latin America, quite buoyant. Inflation in the industrial countries accel- erated in 1979, with the average increase in prices as measured by GNP deflators exceeding 7.5 per cent, compared with an increase of slightly more than 7 per cent in 1978. In terms of consumer price indices, which reflect price increases for oil and other imported goods, as well as for domestically produced output, the acceleration from 1978 to 1979 was con- siderably more pronounced. The growth of world trade registered a moderate increase in 1979. In volume terms, trade grew by about 6.5 per cent, compared with the average growth of 4.5 per cent recorded in the second half of the 1970s and of almost 9 per cent achieved in the 1960s and the early 1970s. Measured in terms 1This Report centers on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions, but it also covers other external economic policy measures and intergovernmental arrange- ments that may have balance of payments implications. The period covered is 1979 and, where possible, the early part ot 1980. 2 The country classification used by the Fund has been revised since last year's Report. The classification now comprises three ma in categories —industrial countries and oil exporting and non-oil exporting developing countries. The coverage of the indus tr ial countries' category has been expanded from 15 countries to 21 countries. of U.S. dollars, the value of world trade was sharply h igher in 1979. A s t reng then ing of import demand in the indus t r ial countries was partly responsible for f u r t h er gains in export volume by the non-oil devel- oping countries. Large increases in the prices of pri- mary commodities du r ing the period under review also contributed to buoyancy of export earnings of the non-oil developing countries. A f ter declining somewhat in 1978, commodity prices again rose strongly in 1979 and in early 1980. The expansion of export earnings of the developing countries, how- ever, was by no means su f f ic ient to keep pace with both the con t inu ing upward momen tum of real imports and a considerably accelerated rise in import prices, reflecting not only the persisting inflation in costs of manu fac tu red goods from the industrial countries but also the marked increase in the cost of imported energy. Indeed, as a result of the steep upward movement of oil prices, the terms of trade of both the indus t r ial countries and the non-oil developing countries deteriorated, in the case of the latter countries for the second consecutive year. There were marked swings in the payments bal- ances on current account (exclusive of official trans- fe rs) for the ma in groups of countries in 1979. The surplus of the oil exporting countries expanded rapidly, from US$5 billion in 1978 to more than US$68 billion, while the industrial countries expe- rienced a sharp tu rna round in their current account, from a surplus of US$30 billion in 1978 to a deficit of US$10 b i l l ion in 1979. W i th total imports rising faster in value than exports, and with net ex ternal paymen ts for services also increasing rapidly, the combined current account deficit of the non-oil developing countries is estimated to have risen from US$36 billion in 1978 to more than US$55 billion in 1979. Both the enlarged indebtedness incurred to finance the deficit and higher average interest rates in 1979 con tr ibu ted to a worsening of the balance of payments outlook for these countries. These d i f- ficulties appeared likely to be compounded by a marked fu r th er slowdown of real economic activity in the indus t r ial countries in 1980, probably accom- panied by a considerable deceleration of growth in the volume of world trade and a continuation of undu ly rapid price increases in most parts of the world, leading to a still f u r t h er w iden ing of cu r rent account imbalances in developing countries. In the early mon ths of 1979 there was an absence of the sustained pressures that characterized the 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS exchange markets for the major world currencies in 1978. This reflected in part the realignment in October 1978 of the exchange rates of the curren- cies participating in the European common margins arrangement ( the "snake")3 and the measures of November 1, 1978 to support the U.S. dollar. A f ter some delay from the originally scheduled date of January 1, 1979, the agreement on the Euro- pean Monetary System (EMS) came into operation on March 13, 1979. The purpose of the EMS is to establish a greater measure of monetary stability in the European Commun i ty (EC )4 as a fundamen tal component of a more comprehensive strategy aimed at lasting growth with stability, a progressive re turn to fu ll employment, the harmonization of living standards and the lessening of regional disparities in the Community.5 All member states of the EC are members of the EMS, but the United Kingdom chose not to become an original par t ic ipant in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the system. The EMS is centered on the European Currency Un it (ECU ), which since the commencement of the EMS has been identical in value and composition to the European Un it of Account (EUA ). A central rate for the currency of each member of the EMS was established in terms of the ECU which was derived from a grid of bilateral exchange rates. Fluctuation margins around these rates were established at plus or minus 2.25 per cent, with the exception that cur- rencies not included in the European common mar- gins arrangement could temporarily establish fluctu- ation margins of up to plus or m inus 6 per cent. Margins for the Italian lira were initially fixed at 6 per cent. Between March 1979 and August 1979 there was moderate intervention w i th in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS to maintain bilateral exchange rate limits between EMS partici- pants, but intervention increased markedly in Sep- tember.0 A realignment of EMS currencies was 3 The currencies of Be lg ium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, Luxembourg, Ne the r lands, and, u n t il Decem- ber 1978, Norway. 4 Comprising Be lg ium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic o f -G e rm any, Ireland, I ta ly, Luxembourg, Ne ther lands, and United Kingdom. 5 The text of part of the Resolution of the European Council on the establishment of the EMS of December 5, 1978 was given in the Annual Report on Exchange Arrange- ments and Exchange Restrictions, 1979, pages 29-30. 6 Intervention in EMS currencies, which is required in un l im i ted amounts when bilateral l im i ts are reached, creates claims and liabilities on the very short-term facility of the European Monetary Cooperation Fund (EMCF) which 4 effected on September 24, 1979 when the bilateral in terven t ion limits of the deutsche mark in EMS coun tr ies other than the Federal Republic of Ger- many were raised by 5 per cent against the Danish k rone and 2 per cent against the remaining partici- pa t ing currencies. Subsequently, as part of a pro- gram to strengthen Denmark's external position, the bilateral intervention limits in that country of all EMS currencies were raised by 5 per cent against the Danish krone, effective November 30, 1979. Between the commencement of the EMS on March 13, 1979 and December 31, 1979, the ECU appreciated by about 7 per cent in terms of the U.S. dollar but depreciated by 10 per cent during the first three months of 1980 for a cumulative depreciation of 4 per cent since the inception of the EMS. Over th is period no EMS currency reached the upper divergence threshold, but the Belgian franc and the Danish k rone each reached their lower divergence thresholds on several occasions, resulting in the introduction of monetary policy measures.7 The major support measures for the U.S. dollar announced by the United States in November 1978 were followed, du r ing the period under review, by other official actions a f fec t ing the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar. On October 6, 1979 the U.S. Fed- eral Reserve Board announced a series of actions to assure better control over the expansion of money and bank credit. Later in October the U.S. Trea- sury announced that fu tu re gold auctions would not follow a regular monthly pattern and that fu tu re sales would be subject to variations in amounts and dates. Also in October the U.S. Treasury announced two new issues of treasury notes denominated in deutsche mark to be offered in the German market in November 1979 and January 1980. A marked t igh ten ing of U.S. monetary policy in the first quar- ter of 1980 and the announcement of an anti-infla- tion program in March 1980 contributed to the s treng then ing of the U.S. dollar in this period. normally must be settled by the transfer of ECUs or other assets w i th in 45 days of the end of the month in which in te rven t ion takes place. 7 The divergence indicator is a measure of the divergence of the ma rket rate expressed in ECU for each EMS currency f rom its ECU central rate. Divergence is permitted as far as the divergence thresholds, wh ich are established for each cu r rency, tak ing in to account its weight in the ECU basket in such a m a n n er th at there is broadly the same degree of probab i l i ty of each EMS currency reaching its threshold. When a threshold is reached, there is a presumption that the authorities concerned will correct the situation by diversified intervention, measures of domestic monetary policy, changes in central rates, or other measures of economic policy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION Among the currencies of other major industrial countries, the pound sterling rose strongly in terms of the U.S. dollar through July 1979 and remained in a relatively strong position in the exchange mar- kets during the remainder of 1979 except for a period following the l i f t ing of U.K. exchange con- trols; the pound weakened against the U.S. dollar in the first quarter of 1980. The Japanese yen, on the other hand, depreciated against the U.S. dollar almost continuously dur ing 1979 and in the first three months of 1980. The weakness of the yen reflected a number of factors, including the sharp turnaround in the current account of the balance of payments and uncertainties regarding oil supplies and prices. The Swiss franc moved higher against the U.S. dollar from May un t il the end of 1979, while the exchange rate of the Canadian dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar remained within a relatively narrow range. During January-March 1980 the U.S. dollar strengthened considerably against all major currencies except the Canadian dollar as U.S. interest rates continued to firm relative to those offered in other major markets. W i th respect to the currencies of the Federal Republic of Germany and Switzerland, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar occurred despite heavy in terven t ion du r ing March and various policy measures by both countries to encourage capital inflows. No tw i ths tand ing the tightening of domestic monetary conditions in some other countries, the appreciation of the U.S. dollar accelerated in the second half of March 1980 af ter the announcement of the U.S. an t i- inf la t ion pro- gram on March 14, 1980. The effective exchange rates8 of the currencies of most of the major industrial countries registered relatively moderate movements du r ing 1979 and early 1980, following the sharp changes that occurred du r ing 1978. The largest movements in effective exchange rates du r ing 1979 were those of the Japanese yen, which on average declined by 7 per cent after increasing by 24 per cent over 8 Based on the Fund's mu l t i la te ral exchange rate model (M ERM ), in wh ich the imp l ic it we igh t ing s t ruc tu re takes account of the relative importance of a country's trad ing partners in its direct b i la teral relationships w i th them, of competitive relationships w i th "third countries" in pa r t icu lar markets, and of estimated elasticities a f fec t ing trade flows. Changes in effective exchange rates derived f rom MERM may d i f f er f rom estimated effective exchange rate changes based on changes in trade-weighted exchange rate indices for which the relative importance of the exchange rate changes of particular countries is measured in terms of these countries' shares in bilateral t rade of the coun try in question. 1978, and that of the pound sterling, which rose by 8 per cent du r ing 1979, compared with an increase of 1 per cent in the previous year. The effective exchange rates of the deutsche mark and the Aus tr ian schilling rose on average by 6 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively, about the same as the increases in the effective exchange rates of those currencies in 1978. There were small increases in the effective exchange rates of the Belgian franc, the French franc, the Netherlands guilder, and the Swedish k rona, while the effective exchange rates of the Danish krone, the Italian lira, and the Nor- wegian k rone registered a slight decline dur ing 1979. Af ter a downward movement of 9 per cent in 1978, the effec t ive exchange rate of the U.S. dollar decreased by 2 per cent in 1979. The Canad ian dollar declined by 4 per cent in 1979, following a decrease of 10 per cent in 1978. During the first qua r ter of 1980, the effective exchange rate of the U.S. dollar rose strongly, while rates for most other ma jor currencies, except the Canadian dollar, the Japanese yen, and the pound sterling, declined. Between J a n u a ry 1, 1979 and March 31, 1980, 22 members no t i f ied the Fund, in accordance with the ir obligations und er Ar t ic le IV, Section 2 (a) of the amended Articles of Agreement, that they had adopted new exchange arrangements. In addition, there were nume rous exchange rate actions notified to the Fund that did not involve changes in mem- bers' exchange a r rangemen ts. Con t inu ing the trend observed in recent years, a number of members adopted d ivers if ied forms of exchange arrangements d u r i ng the period in the ir effor ts to avail themselves of an exchange rate regime best suited to the ir par- t icu lar in s t i tu t ional and policy needs. The ma jor i ty of exchange actions invo lv ing the adoption of a new exchange a r rangement consisted of the abandon- m ent of a pegged exchange rate between the mem- ber's currency and another denominator —usually a single currency, such as the U.S. dollar or the pound s te r l ing or, less commonly, the SDR or other cur- rency composite —in favor of a more flexible exchange rate regime. Three members (France, Ire- land, and I t a ly ), upon the commencement of their pa r t ic ipa t ion in the exchange rate and in terven t ion mechanism of the EMS, joined the five mem- bers of the European "snake" in ma in ta in ing cooperative exchange arrangements. Ten members adopted a pegging exchange arrangement du r ing the period, inc lud ing four wh ich pegged their currencies to the SDR and three wh ich established a fixed relationship to another currency composite. In addi- tion, two countries which became members during 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS the period informed the Fund of the ir intention to ma in ta in an exchange arrangement in which their currencies were pegged to the U.S. dollar. At the end of March 1980, the currencies of 59 members were pegged to a single currency (41 to the U.S. dollar, 14 to the French f ranc, 2 to the South A f r ican rand, and 1 each to the pound sterling and the Spanish pese ta). Fourteen currencies were pegged to the SDR and another 20 to other currency composites. Three members were ad ju s t ing the ir exchange rates at relatively short, irregular intervals according to a set of indicators, 8 were ma in ta in ing cooperative exchange arrangements, while 35 were ma in ta in ing other, more flexible, exchange arrange- ments.9 During the period under review, the Fund's mem- bership rose from 138 countries to 140 countries with the accession to membership of St. Lucia on November 15, 1979 and St. V incent and the Grena- dines on December 28, 1979. Three countries, Dominica, F in land, and Solomon Islands, informed the Fund of their acceptance of the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, bringing to 50 the number of members that have formally accepted these obligations. Two countries, Cape Verde and the Comoros, which became members in 1978, informed the Fund that they were availing themselves of the transitional arrangemen ts under Article XIV, Sec- tion 2. Three members, Djibouti, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, have not yet ind i- cated their intention w i th respect to their status under Article VIII or Article XIV. Developments in trade and payments practices of member countries du r ing the period covered by th is Report are dealt w i th in detail in the following sec- tion. These developments reveal that there was a continuation of the protectionist pressures that have built up since the early 1970s. These pressures have been caused by high rates of in f la t ion, the occurrence of large-scale paymen ts imbalances among the major groups of countries, and the wide- spread problem of structural unemployment in many of the industrial countries. Even though there was a small gain in the rate of growth of world trade in 1979, the sharp w iden ing of the paymen ts deficits of oil importing countries and the slowdown in growth in the industrial countries, together w i th the negative impact on prospects for the world economy arising from the steep increases in oil prices, were not conducive to any new initiatives for a broad- 0 No information is available with respect to the present exchange arrangements of Democratic Kampuchea. 6 based effort to reduce the level of restrictions on trade and payments. Progress in liberalizing restric- tions beyond the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN) was achieved in only a few countries. In several of the industrial countries, the con- t inua t ion of excess capacity and uncertain prospects in key economic sectors and industries presented a serious obstacle to a scaling down of the use of trade restraints, notwithstanding the conclusion in April 1979 of the Tokyo Round of the MTN. Japan was the only major industrial country to continue liberali- zation of its import regime, in accordance w i th the policy introduced in 1978. For most industrial countries there was an absence of any marked lib- eralization of trade other than the proposed measures related to the MTN, although these countries initi- ated no major new restrictive actions during the period under review. Especially in such key sectors as iron and steel and textiles and clothing, mecha- n isms to control low-cost imports became ins t i tu- tionally entrenched. It was particularly in these sec- tors that the major indus t r ial countries widened their use of restraint agreements with exporting (mostly developing) countries. In the shipbuilding sector, subs tan t ial subsidization was combined w i th adjust- ment programs w i th a view to the elimination of excess capacity in the medium term, while tight quan t i ta t ive import controls continued to affect trade in consumer electronics and footwear. The con- t i n u i ng emphasis given in these countries to main- ta in ing levels of protection rather than to substantive ad ju s tment efforts inevitably has had an adverse effect on the growth of international trade; as well as i n h i b i t i ng trade among the industrial countries, it is also damag ing to the efforts of the developing countries to achieve v i ta l ly needed growth in their exports. The Tokyo Round of the MTN, which was the seven th round of trade negotiations under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT ), and the first to address compre- hensively the question of nontariff barriers, ended in Apr il 1979.10 W i th the conclusion of the Tokyo Round there began the process of opening for signa- tu re a series of agreements to lower tar iff and non- ta r i ff barriers. The tar iff concessions provide for a reduction of ta r i f fs in the indus tr ial countries by, in principle, about one third, phased over a period of eight years beg inn ing in 1980. By February 1, 1980 the ta r i ff reductions incorporated in the Geneva 10 The MTN agreements were formally accepted by the CONTRACTING PARTIES to the GATT in November 1979. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION Protocol of 1979 had been accepted by 25 countries and the Supp l em en t a ry Protocol had been accepted by 19 coun t r ies. Also opened for s igna tu re were the texts of a numb er of agreements on non t a r i ff barriers. These were the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (S t and a rds Code), the Agree- ment on Gove rnment Procurement, the Code on Subsidies and Coun te rva i l ing Du t ies, the Arrange- ment on Bov ine Meat, the In t e rn a t ion al Da i ry A r rangemen t, the Customs Va lua t ion Code, the Agreement on Import L icens ing Procedures, the Agreement on Trade in Civil A i rc ra f t, and the Amendmen ts to the A n t i d um p i ng Code. By Feb- rua ry 1, 1980 acceptances for the va r ious agree- men ts ranged f rom 10 coun t r ies in the case of the Customs Va lua t ion Code to 22 coun t r ies for the Standards Code. Also adopted were tex ts on d i f- fe ren t ial and more favo rab le t rea tment of develop- ing coun tr ies and on trade measures for balance of paymen ts purposes, safeguard actions for develop- ment purposes, and no t i f ica t ion, consultation, dis- pute se t t lemen t, and surveillance. Late in 1979 the CONTRACT ING PART IES to the GATT adopted a series of decisions wh ich included the establishment of a comm i t tee to con t inue the un f in i sh ed negotia- tions on the mu l t i l a t e r al safeguard system, and the establishment of a subcomm i t tee of the GATT Com- mittee on Trade and Development to mon i tor f u t u re protective actions by developed coun tr ies a f fec t ing imports f rom deve lop ing coun tr ies. The CONTRACT- ING PART IES also decided to give p e rm a n e nt s t a t us to the GATT Consultative G roup of E igh teen, wh ich was first established as an advisory body in Ju ly 1975. The Consultative G roup of Eighteen re ta ins its manda te to follow developments in in t e rn a t ion al trade and trade policies, to act to forestall any threats to the mu l t i la te ral t rad ing system, and to coordinate relations between the GATT and the Fund in the con text of the in t e rn a t ion al ad ju s tment process. Last year's Report noted that considerable prog- ress in liberalizing trade and paymen ts systems had been made by several developing countries in Asia du r ing 1978. These countries generally ma in ta ined their more liberal policies du r ing the period under review and in some cases extended them, while a number of countries in Latin America adopted new measures to reduce exchange and trade restrictions. The liberalization in these countries involved the elimination or relaxation of restrictions on payments and transfers for current in te rna t ional transactions, as well as a reduction in the use of multiple currency practices. There was also a reduc t ion, a l though of more modest proportions than in recent years, in the n um b er of bilateral paymen ts arrangements between members. Several of these countries also reduced the ir reliance on quan t i ta t ive import restrictions or lowered import du t ies or surcharges. In contrast to these developments, m any developing countries, pa r t icu la r ly in A f r ica, rema ined heavily re l iant on c u r r e nt account res tr ic t ions, both on paymen ts and trade, or they in tens i f ied such res t r ic t ions by in t ro- du c ing new import res t ra in ts in the form of e i ther d i rect or q u a n t i t a t i ve controls or through measures add ing to the cost of impor ts. There was a notice- able increase in the app l ica t ion of advance import deposit r equ i r em en t s. The exceed ing ly d i f f icu lt pay- m en ts s i t u a t i on of m any deve lop ing countries and t h e ir bu rgeon ing ex te rnal debt service problems are reflected in the large and grow ing number of coun- t r i es c u r r e n t ly i n c u r r i ng paymen ts arrears. Du r ing the period under rev iew, 22 members were reported to have arrears on cu r rent and /or cap i tal paymen ts and t r an s f e r s. This deve lopment is of u tmost con- cern to the Fund because of its damag ing effects on the i n t e r n a t i o n al trade and p aym en ts system, as well as on the cred it s tand ing of the members w i th arrears. It is the re fo re imp e r a t ive for coun t r ies w i th a r rea rs of p aym en ts to t ake app rop r ia te steps to restore a system of p rompt paymen ts as soon as possible. The reduc t ion and ev en tu al e l im i n a t i on of paymen ts arrears is an im p o r t a nt element of a d j u s tm e nt programs suppor ted by the Fund's f inan- c ial ass is tance in several coun t r ie s. Changes in cap i tal control measures in the indus- t r i al coun t r ies represented, in general, an appreciable l ib e r a l i z a t ion of ex i s t ing res t ra in ts on i n t e r n a t i o n al movemen ts of f u n d s. The changes in many cases reflected e f fo r ts to adapt cap i tal control measures to p r e v a i l i ng economic c i rcums tances and the in t ro- duc t ion of new and in some ins tances more flexible approaches to mone ta ry and exchange rate manage- men t. In o ther countries, measures to relax res t ra in ts on cap i tal ou t f lows were a imed at encourag ing for- eign inv e s tm ent in the deve lop ing coun t r ies and /or in pa r t icu lar sectors abroad. The developing coun- tries, in general, con t inued the ir e f fo r ts to attract ex te rnal cap i ta l; however, there were few ins tances of a re laxa t ion of re s t ra in ts on capital ou tf lows. Adap ta t ions in cap i tal con tro ls in these coun tr ies reflected in v a r y i ng degrees the changed outlook w i th respect to ex te rnal financing r equ i r em en ts in the short te rm, and e f fo r ts to s t reng then manage- ment of external debt and domestic liquidity. Fur- ther adap ta t ions were made in respect of existing in s t i tu t ion al arrangemen ts and regulations for off- 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS shore bank ing, and a few developing countries intro- duced such facilities du r ing the period. The second half of the 1970s can be viewed as a period in which there was a cessation of the long- term decline in the use of restrictive trade and pay- ments practices experienced over the previous 25 years. The uncertain prospects fac ing the world economy in the period ahead pose a con t inu ing threat to the effor ts of both the indus tr ial and the developing countries to ma in ta in outward-looking policies. The alternative of an increased resort to protectionism and other forms of restrictions on trade and payments can only serve to retard the growth of world trade and production. A vigorous effort to implement effectively the agreements of the Tokyo Round of the MTN can make an impo r tant positive contribution to the restoration of a more favorable setting for the conduct of international trade. The Fund, for its part, will con t inue its efforts to assist countries to avoid undue resort to restrictive practices, especially by the provision of its financial resources to assist members in imp lemen t ing appro- priate ad jus tment policies. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices 1. Imports and Import Paymen ts a. Quantitative Import Controls The industrial coun tr ies avoided recourse to com- prehensive new quan t i ta t ive controls on imports dur- ing the period under review. The changes that took place in existing import res tra in ts in these coun t r ies appeared, on balance, to have had l i t t le impact on the overall degree of restrictiveness carried over from 1978. While unemp loyment and changes in inter- national competitiveness in many of these coun tr ies continued to pose problems at the sectoral level, such as for trade in textiles, some limited liberaliza- tion of quan t i ta t ive restrictions negotiated in the Tokyo Round of the MTN gave promise that pres- sures for protectionist measures could be held in check du r ing 1980. The restraint measures introduced by the EC in 1978 on trade in steel were renewed in 1979 with little change. These measures consisted mainly of the establishment of basic reference prices11 for steel, based on the lowest production costs in an exporting coun try in which the EC deems that 11 The basic reference price is the compulsory base price applicable w i th in the EC and to transac t ions w i th those coun- tries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) with which the EC has concluded free trade agreements for prod- ucts of the European Coal and Steel Community. 8 "normal conditions of competition" exist, and an arrangement for the levying of provisional anti- dump ing duties should the actual import price be lower than the reference price. Under bilateral agreements entered into by the EC with a number of steel exporting countries, understandings were reached on the volume of exports to the EC and commitments were given on the observance of the EC's rules on basic prices. An t idump ing duties are not imposed on products covered by bilateral arrangements, thereby providing an incentive for the conclusion of such arrangements. Arrangements of th is k ind were negotiated with many countries early in 1979.12 Under the GATT's Multifiber Arrangement (M FA ), which had been extended for the period 1978-81, the EC concluded a number of restraint agreements w i th countries exporting textiles and clothing. In add i t ion, the EC concluded bilateral agreements to restrain imports of textile products f rom Argen t ina, Greece, Malta, and Turkey, coun- tries which had not adhered to the extended MFA.13 Italy and the United Kingdom applied quantitative limits on their imports of certain categories of wool f rom U ruguay for the period 1979-82. Other Euro- pean countries also negotiated export restraint agree- men ts w i th suppliers of textiles. Other agreements were notified to the Textile Surveillance body of the MFA, some invo lv ing nons igna tory countries. Also w i t h in the terms of the MFA, the United States renewed exp i r ing export restraint agreements or concluded new ones w i th 20 trad ing par tner coun- t r ies, inc lud ing one indus t r ial country. The United States imposed un i la te ral quotas on certain exports by the People's Republic of Ch ina and South A f r ica. Canada negotiated export restraint agreements with a numb er of major suppliers of textile and c lo th ing items. The Un i ted States took a number of measures a f f e c t i ng other import items. Under the trigger price mechan ism14 for steel imports, the U.S. Treasury raised the trigger prices for investigations of dump- ing of steel. In March 1980 the mechanism was suspended. In February 1979 an orderly marketing agreement entered in to force in respect of certain color television receivers and components imported 12 Aus tra l ia, Aus t r ia, Braz i l, Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, F in land, Hunga ry, Japan, Korea, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, South A f r ica, Spain, and Sweden. 13 Argentina and Turkey subsequently accepted the pro- tocol of extension of the MFA. 14 A mechanism wh ich activates accelerated an t idump ing investigations whenever import prices are below established trigger prices. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES from Korea. In Ju ly 1979, under a program to reduce imports of petroleum, a ceiling was placed on oil imports at their 1977 level. In November a prohibition was placed on imports of crude oil and oil products from Iran. In April 1980 the prohibi- tion was extended to all imports from Iran. Other measures adopted by the United States included the suspension of restraints on certain imports of meats and the phasing out within an eight-month period beginning June 1979 of the quota system for imports of specialty steel. In Europe, the EC negotiated a trade agreement which liberalized imports from the People's Republic of China. The Federal Republic of Germany abol- ished import licensing requirements for 42 import items and lifted import quotas on certain imports from state trading countries. On the other hand, in February 1980 the EC authorized the United King- dom to impose a limit on imports from third coun- tries of yarn of synthetic fiber. The three-year or- derly marketing arrangement on specialty steel ex- ports concluded between Japan and the United States was allowed to expire in June 1979. Japan agreed to relax import standards and inspection regulations for U.S. exports. In other industrial countries, Aus- tralia eliminated import licensing requirements for some imports and substituted ta r i f fs for quotas on other products, while New Zealand increased its import quota allocations for some items. A number of Latin American countries liberalized their import regimes. Argentina allowed the impor- tation of finished vehicles for the first time in 20 years and raised the foreign input content allowance for domestic vehicle production. Colombia added a large number of import items to the list of freely importable commodities. Mexico eliminated import permit requirements for a large number of ta r i ff items, Peru added 1,435 nomenclature items to the list of permitted imports, and Venezuela liberal- ized imports of unassembled products, agricultural vehicles, and color television sets. Import licensing requirements for certain goods were also relaxed in Haiti and Trinidad and Tobago. Several other countries eased quantitative restric- tions on imports. Egypt disinvoked Article XXXV of the GATT with respect to Israel and Portugal, and added new import items to the open general license system, increasing its coverage to 15 per cent of total imports. In Janua ry 1979 Greece terminated the suspension of imports of Japanese goods, first imposed in June 1978, in conjunction with the negotiation of an export restraint agreement with Japan, and in August abolished licensing require- ments for some imports of food and industrial goods. In in troduc ing its foreign trade policy for 1979/80, Ind ia continued the process of liberalizing and sim- p l i fy ing its import regime, including an expansion of the open general license system with respect to capi- tal goods and other imports. Iraq removed the restriction on trade with the United Kingdom imposed in 1978. Korea increased the share of imports under the automatic import list by trans- fe r r ing a number of items from the restricted list. Nigeria in September 1979 prohibited certain imports, including rice, but removed the ban in December and replaced it by a system of import licenses. At the same time, certain other goods were removed from the list of goods requiring import licenses. Portugal increased global quotas on imports of consumer goods. South Africa removed import quotas from a range of consumer goods; for imports of motor vehicles, the quotas were replaced by a 100 per cent customs tariff. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions were also eased in Malta, Morocco, and Thailand. A number of developing countries tightened quan t i ta t ive controls on imports. Brazil extended for ano ther year the prohibition of a range of imports of superfluous and luxury goods. In December 1979, as part of a series of new measures in the exchange and trade system, Brazil announced that in 1980 public sector imports other than petroleum would be kept to 80 per cent of their 1979 level. In January 1979 the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya imposed a licens- ing requirement on all imports and in July announced that licenses would no longer be issued to the pri- vate sector. In October 1979 Pakistan announced that licensing of imports for the private sector in 1979/80 would, in principle, be limited to their 1978/79 value. Import licensing was tightened in Sierra Leone and Tanzania, while Tunisia removed a numb er of imports from the list of goods that may be imported free ly w i thout license. Turkey banned imports of luxu ry goods, and enterprises in Yugo- slavia, in Ju ly 1979, limited imports under their self-management agreements for the remainder of 1979. Other countries wh ich tightened quan t i ta t ive import res tr ic t ions included Benin, the Dominican Republic, Ghana, Morocco, Senegal, and Western Samoa. A f t er the United Kingdom's action of Decem- ber 13, 1979, a large number of countries lifted restrictions on transactions with Rhodesia under the terms of a United Nations Security Council reso- lution to that effect in October 1979. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS b. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation There were relatively few ma jor t rade actions relating d irec t ly to the use of import surcharges dur- ing the period under review. In April 1979 Portugal reduced its 20 per cent surcharge to 10 per cent and in May exempted several products from the surcharge, leaving them subject to basic import duties. In March 1979 Botswana, Lesotho, Swazi- land, and South Africa reduced their common import surcharge from 12.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. The surcharge was abolished in March 1980. U ruguay implemented a ta r i ff reform program whereby import surcharges, duties, and other charges will be reduced gradually over a period of five years. Accordingly, the higher import surcharge rates were reduced from 150 per cent to 110 per cent in early 1979 and to 90 per cent in August. Among other countries, special import fees or du t ies in the form of surcharges were introduced or raised in Australia, Benin, Mauritius, Morocco, and Tanzania. Malawi, in July 1979, raised the surtax on imports from 15 per cent to 20 per cent. In Janua ry 1979 Peru extended, un t il the end of 1980, the import surcharge of 10 per cent; the surcharge was, how- ever, eliminated in March 1980. Du r ing the period under review, Thailand introduced import sur- charges on various items, ranging from 5 per cent to 30 per cent. Substantial tar iff concessions were negotiated in the Tokyo Round of the MTN, w i th the industrial countries pledging to reduce industrial t a r i f fs by approximately 33 per cent on a weighted average basis. The process of tar iff liberalization is sched- uled to take place over eight years, beginning Jan- uary 1, 1980 for those countries that have accepted the Geneva Protocol of 1979 and the Supplementary Protocol, and will enter into force for other coun- tries on acceptance. In some sensitive areas the starting date for the progressive reductions is to be delayed. The overall tar iff reduction formula will also result in some tariff harmonization through a proportionately larger reduction of ta r i f fs levied at high rates. A separate agreement was negotiated to eliminate all customs duties and any similar charges on civil aircraft, aircraft parts, and repairs on civil aircraft by Janua ry 1, 1980. There is to be considerable variation in the depth of tariff reductions among the major industrial coun- tries participating in the pledge to reduce t a r i f fs ( the EC countries, Austria, Canada, Finland, Japan, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and United States). For Austria, a weighted average reduction of 13 per cent is estimated to reduce the post-MTN tariff level 10 on indu s t r ial products to an average of about 8 per cent, while for Japan the weighted average reduction of 49 per cent will result in a final tariff rate of 3 per cent. For the other industrial countries, the depth of the cut and the post-MTN tar iff averages are, respectively: Canada —38 per cent and 9.5 per cen t; the EC countries —29 per cent and 5 per cent; Finland —21 per cent and 6 per cent; Norway— 25 per cent and 3 per cent; Sweden —28 per cent and 4 per cent; Switzerland —23 per cent and 2 per cent; and the Un i ted States —31 per cent and 4 per cent. In add i t ion to tar iff actions related to the Tokyo Round, some industrial countries made important and wide-ranging reductions in import duties and other ta r i ff concessions du r ing the period under review. Canada extended a range of customs du ty concessions originally due to expire at the end of J u ne 1979. Spain applied substantial import duty reductions, on a temporary basis, for most of 1979 and early 1980. W i th in the framework of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP ), several industrial countries introduced f u r t h er ta r i ff concessions for imports f rom developing countries. In agreeing upon its GSP scheme for 1980, the Council of the EC increased by 27 per cent the value of du ty-free impor ts, to a level of EUA 9.5 billion.15 The EC included the People's Republic of China as a bene- ficiary for the first time. Switzerland also extended the benef i ts of its GSP program to the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, and w i th effect from J anu a ry 1, 1979 Canada extended the list of its GSP benefi- ciaries to include Jordan, Niue, the Tokelau Islands, and the Ma r iana, the Marshall, and the Caroline Islands, while w i thd raw ing St. Pierre and Miquelon f rom the list. In March 1979 the United States revised the list of products covered by its GSP scheme: some 108 products on which duty-free t rea tment had previously been w i thdrawn were redesignated as eligible for such treatment, 21 prod- ucts were added to the list for the first time, while 6 products were w i thd rawn from the list. Duty-free t rea tment was w i thd rawn from 124 items when imported from certain developing countries. In March 1980 the United States added a fu r ther 50 items to the list of goods covered by its GSP scheme. A number of developing countries in Latin Amer- ica liberalized their import tariff regime in the period under review. Argentina announced a tariff reform program for the period 1979-84 designed to reduce 15 The v a lue of the EUA (Eu ropean Un it of Account) is calculated da i ly on the basis of a basket of currencies of the members of the EC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES tar iffs from the existing range of 10-85 per cent to a range of 10-40 per cent in 1983, and introduced additional tariff reductions for more than 1,000 items of capital equipment. Colombia reduced import duties on a wide range of commodities according to the negotiations of the Cartagena Agreement and extended through mid-1980 a reduced 5 per cent duty on certain capital goods imports. Mexico abolished the m in imum price sys- tem for customs valuation of most imports. Peru adopted a single, uniform customs tariff which con- solidated a wide variety of previous duty exemp- tions and import surcharges. Under its tariff reform program, Uruguay implemented an across-the-board duty reduction on December 31, 1979 equivalent to 16 per cent of the difference between the sum of all existing duties and the basic 35 per cent du ty. During the period under review, import charges and fees on a large number of imported foodstuff items were lowered. Uruguay also announced that the import duty reduction timetable would be accel- erated for those products whose domestic prices are raised by percentages in excess of those jus t if ied by cost factors. Import du ty reductions or concessions took effect in Chile, Costa Rica, and Venezuela. Among other developing countries, Algeria sus- pended import duties on agricultural products. Indo- nesia granted total or partial du ty exemption for some imports and lowered duties for a wide range of imports of raw materials and semifinished goods. In January 1979 Korea lowered import ta r i f fs on most products. In February 1979 Kuwa it announced that import duties would be canceled when similar goods were not produced domestically. Other coun- tries which introduced important tar iff reductions included Nepal, the Philippines, Senegal, and West- ern Samoa. Sri Lanka increased import duties on some products and reduced them on others; on bal- ance there appeared to be a net reduction in Sri Lanka's import duties. A number of countries increased the rates of customs duties and other import taxes. Australia raised duties for several items, and Sweden increased its compensatory import taxes on beer, sweets, and biscuits. Among developing countries, Madagascar and Malawi increased customs duties on a wide range of goods, while Yugoslavia increased import duties on luxury goods and imposed a 50 per cent tax on certain other imports. Significant increases in import duties also occurred in Algeria, Fiji, Guinea-Bissau, Iran, and Papua New Guinea, while Pakistan, Sierra Leone, and Zambia raised their import license fees. There were numerous cases involving antidump- ing and countervailing duties in Canada, the EC, and the United States dur ing the period under review. In Canada findings of dumping were concluded in respect of several products, including certain foot- wear and industrial trucks, while antidumping duties were rescinded for color television sets and certain fabrics. The EC also imposed antidumping duties in several cases. In the United States, antidumping duties were imposed on five import categories, while countervailing duties were imposed in a number of cases, the most important being imports of iron and steel chain from Italy, industrial fasteners from Japan, and canned tomatoes from the EC. In addi- tion, import duties were increased to 15 per cent on imports of bolts, nuts, and large screws as a result of an escape clause case. The United States, how- ever, revoked its findings of dump ing against certain imports from the EC, Italy, and Japan, and revoked countervailing duties on specified imports from Aus- tria, Colombia, the United Kingdom, and Uruguay. c. Advance Import Deposits The use of advance import deposit schemes became more widespread du r ing the period under review. While two countries abolished or suspended the ir schemes and four others liberalized existing requirements for advance import deposits, new schemes were established in five countries and exist- ing requ iremen ts were in tens if ied in another seven countries. In J anu a ry 1979 Brazil announced an immediate reduction of the 100 per cent advance import deposit requ irement introduced in July 1975 to a level of 90 per cent, accompanied by a schedule to phase out the requirement by June 1983 at a semiannual rate of 10 percentage points. In December 1979, as part of a wide-ranging series of measures, the advance import deposit scheme was suspended. In J anu a ry 1979 Korea abolished all advance import deposits except those for goods imported by the pr iva te sector on a deferred payment basis and in March 1979 lowered the rates of the remaining deposit requ iremen t. Kenya exempted a number of import items from its advance import deposit require- m en t, subs tan t ia l ly reduced deposit rates for most remaining items subject to the scheme, and reduced f rom six mon ths to three months, except for pas- senger cars and textiles, the term for which deposits would be retained. Ecuador and Paraguay exempted certain imports from their advance import deposit requirements. Uganda abolished prior import deposits in June 1979. 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS In September 1979 El Salvador introduced a 10 per cent prior import deposit requirement on all imports exceeding US$2,000 in value and paid for by letter of credit or bank draft. Iceland intro- duced a temporary import deposit scheme applying to imports of fu rn i tu re and certain wood manu- factures, to be in effect through December 1980. As part of a series of measures introduced in November 1979, Israel imposed a 10 per cent advance import deposit on taxable imports; the deposit requirement was to be in effect for six months. Malawi, in August 1979, made all imports subject to a 20 per cent advance deposit. In Nica- ragua, about one half of merchandise imports became subject to a prior import deposit, equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value in foreign exchange, which would be held for 60 days and would earn interest at 12 per cent per annum. In addition, a 100 per cent advance deposit requirement was intro- duced in respect of the value of the foreign exchange payment for all imports. A number of countries tightened existing import deposit schemes. In September 1979 Bolivia raised the 120-day import deposit requirement on a large number of import items from the range of 5-25 per cent to a rate of 500 per cent for a period of 180 days; certain other imports not previously covered also became subject to the higher rate of deposit; in November previous deposit rates and terms were reinstituted. In February 1979 Colombia increased the rates of advance exchange license deposits from a range of 40, 60, and 80 per cent to a un iform 95 per cent. The advance import payment deposit, equivalent to 35 per cent, was thenceforth included as part of the required advance deposit. In June a new advance import deposit requirement, equiva- lent to 20 per cent of the value of the import license, was established for imports of capital goods that previously had been exempted from the deposit. This deposit requirement was subsequently raised to 35 per cent and imports of equipment and capi- tal goods financed by financial corporations were exempted. From December 1979 Greece required importers to make additional advance deposits equivalent to 75 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports to be held for a period of six months. The requirement was eliminated in April 1980. Morocco applied an advance deposit requirement to imports fi- nanced without purchase of official foreign exchange. In Nigeria the 100 per cent advance deposit require- ment was made applicable to all forms of import payments, except those effected on documents against 12 payment terms. Deposit requirements for imports were also tightened in the Philippines and Turkey. d. Other Measures Affecting Import Payments A number of countries eased existing regulations for import payments. In March 1979 Finland abol- ished the cash payment scheme for imports. In November Kenya eased the requirement introduced in December 1978 for importers to finance certain imports at terms of 90-180 days, and in August Korea extended the settlement period for imports with deferred payment from 90 days to 120 days. Peru phased out the m in imum foreign financing requirement for imports. With the removal of all exchange controls in October and December 1979, the United Kingdom ceased to impose any require- ments in respect of payments for imports. Import payments regulations were tightened in Bangladesh, which restricted imports under the Wage Earners Scheme10 to those goods paid for with funds deposited in foreign currency accounts or remitted to Bangladesh through regular banking channels. Brazil increased the minimum financing period for imports of certain capital goods from five years to eight years, and Chile required exchange cover to be secured for all import payments not on a deferred basis within 120 days; for automobiles the period was fixed at 90 days. Previously, the permissible delay was 180 days. Certain imports exempted from the requirement were allowed a delay of 360 days. Guinea-Bissau prohibited for- eign exchange allocations for imports of vehicles and spare parts, and Sierra Leone imposed a 2.5 per cent user charge on import licenses, except for raw materials. Western Samoa changed the period for allocations of foreign exchange for imports from an annual to a quarterly basis and subsequently required imports under the allocations system to be financed from current allocations even if payments were not due until a later date. Credit financing for imports was restricted in Greece, where banks were not permitted to finance imports with goods as collateral; some import items were exempted from this regulation which was to remain in effect un t il June 1980. Greece also required the first repayment of a supplier's credit to be made w i th in six months. Mauritius prohibited the negotiation of credits for the importation of 16 Under the scheme, Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open foreign currency accounts denominated in pounds ster- ling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be debited, inter alia, for payments for specified imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES low-priority goods and required central bank approval of suppliers' credits exceeding 90 days. e. State Trading In July 1979 the L ibyan Arab Jamah i r iya announced that import licenses would no longer be issued to the pr iva te sector. During the period under review, Malta extended the list of consumer goods that may be imported by the Ministry of Trade. Following the expiration of the India- Pakistan trade agreement, Pakistan announced in March 1979 that such trade by Pakistan would be conducted by a public sector agency. In Spain the Ministry of Commerce relinquished its participation in the importation of fresh and frozen meat. 2. Exports and Export Proceeds Continuing the trend observed in recent years, many countries, both industrial and developing, adopted measures to encourage export growth. These included tax incentives in the form of rebates, other fiscal incentives for exports, and the provision of preferential financing facilities and exchange guarantee arrangements. On occasion, domestic sup- ply considerations or changes in external conditions prompted the withdrawal of such benefits. Measures involving quantitative export restrictions or taxes on exports were generally introduced for domestic sup- ply or price purposes and were confined to a few important commodities. However, as noted in Sec- tion I above, there was a fur ther marked extension in the use of "voluntary" export restraint agree- ments. A number of countries modified their regu- lations governing the surrender of export proceeds. In January 1979 Mexico granted subsidy pay- ments to offset import duties on capital goods des- tined for export production; it also expanded the list of exports eligible for tax rebates to include manu- factured goods. Pakistan lowered the tax rate on income derived from export activities and raised export rebates on a wide range of manufactured products. The Philippines offered a variety of incen- tives to exporters, including income tax benefits, exemptions from certain import duties, and an exten- sion of the period allowed for the tax-free import of capital equipment. In Uruguay, additional tax credit incentives were provided to those exports which might become subject to countervailing import duties, in order to encourage the development of new export markets. In addition, exporters of specified commodities, mostly nontraditional exports, were offered fiscal incentives in the form of tax rebates, tax credits, or cash payments in a number of coun- tries, including Argentina, Costa Rica, the Domini- can Republic, India, and Sri Lanka. Also, Argen- t ina granted its petrochemical and mining industries a wide range of benefits including deferred tax pay- men ts and tariff exemptions on capital good imports. However, fiscal incentives for exports were eliminated in several countries. In Janua ry 1979, Brazil announced a 10 per cent reduction in tax credits given to exporters of manufactures, together with a plan to phase out the credits by June 1983. In December Brazil suspended these tax credits. India suspended cash compensatory aid in respect of exports of cotton garments to countries with textile quotas. In Nepal the cash subsidy on ju te goods exported to countries other than India was withdrawn, while Uruguay terminated the provision of subsidized credits in local currency against the advance sur- render of export proceeds. During the period under review, there were no significant changes in the arrangement on guidelines for officially supported export credits; the arrange- ment, which entered into effect on April 1, 1978, is ma in ta ined by member countries of the Organiza- tion for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in respect of export credits and guarantees. A number of countries introduced measures to promote export performance through the provision or expansion of preferential financing facilities. Aus- tria in January 1979 announced an increase in the upper l im it of the value of export promotion bills that the Aus tr ian National Bank was prepared to refinance; in the same month Greece raised the reim- bursable portion of interest payments due on export credit for goods shipped to European countries out- side the EC. In September Spain relaxed the rules governing credits extended to finance the period of manu fac tu re of exports, and in May Sweden removed the l im i ts on amounts for export financing by author- ized banks. Among other countries, Pakistan raised the amount of financing available to exporters; Malaysia granted certain exporters preshipment credit facilities; and the Philippines raised the limits to which the commercial banks were permitted to rediscount export paper with the Central Bank. In May 1979 Costa Rica established an export financing program whereby commercial banks were authorized to contract foreign financing in order to extend credit directly to domestic producers. On the other hand, France announced that ceilings on certain forms of credit, inc lud ing medium-term and long-term export financing, would be imposed for the first half of 1980. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANG EM EN TS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS A number of coun t r ies introduced changes in their systems of guarantees and insurance on export credits and guaran tees against exchange risks. The Federal Republic of Ge rmany improved its official export credit insurance through the provision of au toma t ic cover on paymen ts wh ich were six mon ths overdue, and in December announced that new credit guarantees for trade w i th Iran would be sus- pended. In Italy cover against exchange risk was made available by the export credit agency for contracts denominated in U.S. dollars of ma tur i ty in excess of six months. Morocco established a for- ward exchange cover fac i l i ty for ind iv idual export and nonconsumption import transactions. In the United Kingdom the Export Credit Guaran tee Department (ECGD) reduced by one half the m in i- mum limit for the value of export contracts quali- fy ing under its bond support scheme; however, it also withdrew the ref inanc ing fac i l i ty provided for fixed rate sterling export credits of more than five years and raised the prem ium rates on the bank guarantee facilities. The abolition of exchange con- trols removed all requ iremen ts in respect of export proceeds and gave exporters unres tr ic ted access to forward exchange cover facilities. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions on exports were abolished or relaxed in several countries. Argen t ina lifted its ban on the export of cattle hides, Costa Rica elimi- nated restrictions on the export of coconuts, and India suspended the limitation on tea exports for a period of one year beginning April 1979. Malta and Spain exempted most nonessential goods from export licensing requirements. Pakistan l if ted the ban on exports of staple cotton, Papua New Gu inea liberalized regulations governing exports of logs, Peru resumed exports of fish oil, and Thailand abolished licensing requirements for exports of ani- mal feed. A number of countries, however, intro- duced new or intensified existing quan t i ta t ive restric- tions on exports. The Federal Republic of Germany announced the suspension of approvals for f u t u re deliveries of military spare parts to Iran. Prohi- bitions on specified exports were also imposed in Argentina, Ghana, India, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka, while the Dominican Republic temporarily banned exports of most agricultural products following sup- ply disruptions caused by hurr icane damage. Cer- ta in exports were made subject to prior approval or licensing requirements in Colombia, Fiji, Nigeria, and Sweden. The United Arab Emirates limited the issuance of general trade licenses to U.A.E. citizens or to firms fully owned by citizens. In Jan- u a ry 1980 the United States prohibited the export 14 of agricultural commodities to the U.S.S.R. ( for wheat and corn the measure applied to exports beyond the previously agreed leve l ); subsequently, specific items deemed not to be animal feed or meat subs t i tu tes were w i thd rawn f rom the list of pro- h ib i ted exports, wh i le phosphate fertilizers were added. In April 1980 the United States prohibited all exports to Iran except food and medicines. The Un i ted States also renewed, until 1983, export con- trol regulations under the Export Administration Act; provision was made for the introduction of gu ide l ines on the use of export controls for foreign policy purposes, the modification of export licensing procedures, and the setting up of a commodity con- trol list. In the area of export taxation, several countries imposed new or raised existing taxes or duties on exports of primary products, often with a view to ensuring adequate domestic supplies. Brazil, in December 1979, introduced export taxes on a wide range of commodities, including coffee, but lowered the rates of tax in Janua ry 1980. Honduras imposed taxes on the export of certain meat products. Indo- nes ia raised tax rates on a number of exports, while in Malaysia export duties on coconut products were increased. Paraguay introduced a new export tax on soybeans rang ing from 3 per cent to 7 per cent, and in Sri Lanka duties were levied on certain fish exports. Uruguay introduced regulations permitting the imposition of taxes on exports subject to counter- va i l ing du t ies in the coun try of destination; it also applied taxes on leather and textile products exported to the Un i ted States and fixed the levies on exports of certain hides in terms of U.S. dollars. Export duties or taxes on specific commodities were reduced in Argen t ina, Malaysia, and Sri Lanka and were eliminated in India, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philip- pines, and Senegal. Regulations governing the surrender or surveil- lance of export proceeds were abolished or liberalized in a number of countries. Colombia allowed exporters of m ineral products in association with state enterprises to retain a portion of their export proceeds for the payment of foreign obligations; it also modified the list of exports against the pro- ceeds of which foreign exchange certificates could be redeemed w i thout discount within a specified period of time. Exporters of nontraditional goods were exempted from foreign exchange surrender requ i remen ts in the Dominican Republic and from filing foreign exchange sales reports in the Philip- pines. Surrender requirements were tightened, how- ever, in several countries. Ecuador reduced the time ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES limit for the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds from specified petroleum sales and raised the fines for delays in the surrender of these proceeds. Maldives imposed a 50 per cent surrender require- ment on the proceeds from certain exports of fish, and Zaire tightened the regulations govern ing the repatriation and surrender of foreign exchange earn- ings of several of its state t rad ing companies. 3. Current Invisibles Dur ing the period under review, m any of the changes in regulations relating to paymen ts and transfers for cu r rent inv is ib le t ransac t ions were in the direction of liberalization. But, as generalized price increases continued worldwide, ad ju s tmen ts were often designed merely to m a in t a in exchange alloca- tions in real terms, such as those for foreign travel, especially in cases where nom inal amoun ts had been kept constant for a considerable t ime and /or where they had been expressed in dep rec ia t ing cur- rencies. Several countries introduced new or intensi- fied existing restrictions on cu r rent invisibles, some- times sharply, and usually in con jun c t ion w i th other trade and payments measures, as a means of stem- m ing balance of payments pressures or p reven t ing disguised capital outflows. There were some impo r tant liberalizing actions by industrial countries. A f ter several years of succes- sive liberalizations, the Un i ted K ingdom abolished, between June and October 1979, the r em a in ing restrictions on cu r rent invisibles (o ther than those w i th respect to Southern Rhodesia wh ich were removed in December 1979) in the context of the progressive d isman t l ing of all exchange controls. Concomitantly, Ireland term ina ted all exchange con- trol distinctions between U.K. residents and o ther EC nonres iden ts. Consequently, all transac t ions in sterling by Irish residents were subject to the rules governing transactions in any other foreign cu r rency, and all transactions (in any cu r rency) invo lv ing pay- ments or transfers of assets by Irish residents to U.K. residents were subject to the rules governing such paymen ts or transfers to residents of other EC coun- tries. In the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Un ion (BLEU) the upper limit on current paymen ts and receipts for which no exchange control documen- tation is required was doubled to BF 100,000 and some other adm in is tra t ive procedures were liberal- ized. Zaire relaxed restrictions on rem i t tances to Burundi and Rwanda involving settlement of insur- ance claims and for social security benefits. In the area of exchange allocations for foreign travel, measures involving liberalization outnum- bered actions in troduc ing new or intensified restric- tions. Colombia more than doubled the basic exchange allocation for travelers and also raised the ceiling on the special allocation for travel considered especially beneficial to the country. Chile increased the exchange allowance for travel to neighboring countries, and Finland raised the maximum amount of exchange that residents are permitted to take out of the coun try w i thout central bank approval. Guyana reintroduced the exchange allocation for tourism which had been suspended late in 1976, while Iceland again raised its allocation for tourism. Ind ia increased the exchange allowances for travel to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Iraq raised the allo- cations for both official and tourist travel. The Ne the r lands Antilles set a h igher daily exchange allowance for tourist travel. Pakistan raised the exchange allowance for business travel by 50 per cent, but reduced the special daily allowance for p r iva te tr ips to India. The indicative exchange allowances for business and tourist travel were dou- bled in Peru, and Spain increased the basic limit on the sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad. In Sri Lanka the monthly limit on the sale of exchange for medical travel to ne ighbor ing countries was raised and add i t ional exchange for emergency travel was gran ted w i thout prior approval. South Africa increased its travel allowance by 50 per cent as did Lesotho and Swaz i land. Trinidad and Tobago raised allowances for all forms of travel, while Barbados, Ma l ta, and Zambia increased exchange allocations for business trips. Among other coun- tr ies w h i ch liberalized exchange for travel, Brazil suspended the deposit requ i rement on the issuance of passports and exit visas, payment of which was a cond i t ion for the purchase of exchange for travel, and the Ph i l ipp ines rescinded in early 1979 the r equ i r em ent introduced in late 1978 that all appli- ca t ions for exchange for t ravel to Hong Kong be re fe r red to the Central Bank. New or in tens if ied restrictions on the availability of exchange for travel were limited to developing coun tr ies. Two of them, Ghana and Uganda, sus- pended exchange allocations for tou r ist travel. El Salvador reduced the basic allowance for travel expenses, although add i t ional amounts were made ava i lab le subject to the lodging of a guarantee deposit w i th the Central Reserve Bank. Iran reduced the l im i ts on allocations for all types of travel except travel for medical reasons. Nicaragua adjusted the l im it on the travel allowances f rom a max imum of US$5,000 in any 360-day period to US$2,500 in any 180-day period. Turkey reduced the basic 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS exchange allowance for travel f rom US$500 a per- son every two years to US$500 a person once every three calendar years. Thailand reduced the max i- mum number of days for which travelers may pur- chase foreign exchange f rom 45 to 30, but later raised the max imum daily allowance for business trips from US$120 to US$150. Restrictions on for- eign travel introduced in 1978 were reinforced by new cost disincentives in Kenya, which subjected applications for air and sea travel tickets to ad valorem taxes of 10 per cent and 5 per cent, respec- tively. In the area of remittances of personal income, profits, and dividends, Bu rundi relaxed restrictions on transfers of earnings of foreign na t iona ls. Ind ia increased the max imum amount of d iv idends on equity shares which could be remitted to nonresi- dents w i thout prior approval. South Afr ica per- mitted emigrants to take out up to R 100,000 for each fam i ly, in addition to no rmal travel allowances, and raised the limit for export of household and per- sonal effects. In Spain business enterprises were authorized to open special accounts for paymen ts abroad, and Sri Lanka withdrew the requ irement of Central Bank approval for the rem i t tance, a f ter deduction of taxes, of interest accrued in blocked accounts from fixed deposits by nonresidents. How- ever, Tanzania suspended all remittances of profits and payments of d iv idends to non res ident companies. In Nigeria the l im it on remittances of profits and fees by foreign firms and consultants was lowered, and some restrictive guidelines were issued on the repatriation of proceeds from sales of shares by for- eign companies. Among other measures a f fec t ing paymen ts for cur- rent invisible transactions, foreign exchange allo- cations for education abroad were increased in a number of countries, inc lud ing Greece, Pakistan, Peru, and Uganda. Chile doubled the monthly allowances for several k inds of remittances, such as the cost of medical t rea tment abroad and pay- ments for pension fund s. Jordan liberalized certain exchange controls on remittances by permitting the t rans fer of foreign currency to local banks in any form and by doubling the ceiling on fo re ign currency deposits that may be held by Jordanians. In a number of countries, restrictions on the import and export of domestic or foreign banknotes were eased and reconversion limits for unspent bal- ances were raised. Malaysia and Spain raised the limit on the value of domestic currency notes that travelers may carry into and take out of the country. Guyana, Iceland, and Pakistan also liberalized 16 restrictions on the import and export of domestic banknotes. In J anu a ry 1979 Switzerland removed the l im i ta t ions on impor t ing foreign currency notes which had been reintroduced almost one year earlier. In Sri Lanka the reconversion limit on unspent rupee balances was l if ted, subject to verification of ade- qua te documentation on the initial exchange conver- sion, and the Syrian Arab Republic allowed depart- ing nonresidents to reconvert Syrian currency into fore ign exchange up to the equ iva lent of LS 500. 4. Payments Arrears A sizable number of member coun tr ies continued to incur external payments arrears dur ing the period under review. These arrears relate largely to com- mercial import paymen ts, although a s ign if icant pro- po r t ion, par t icu lar ly among countries with unfavor- able debt profiles, represents delays in official and p r iva te debt service paymen ts; some coun tr ies have also reported delays in the provision of foreign exchange for certain invisible transactions such as profit and d iv idend t ran s fe rs and the rem i t tances of in t e rn a t ion al a i r l ine companies. A number of countries entered into programs supported by the use of Fund resources providing, in t er alia, for the phased reduction or elimination of arrears. Of these countries, Ghana, Jamaica, Mau r i tan ia, Sudan, Turkey, Uganda, and Zambia registered a dec l ine in the ir payments arrears; in the case of Tu rkey some arrears, including those related to noncommercial payments, were rescheduled. Increases in arrears were reported in Guyana, Nica- ragua, Sierra Leone, and Zaire; the last two coun- tries, as well as Sudan, received partial assistance in the form of rescheduling agreements. Among coun- tries for wh ich Fund programs were not in effect, the Dominican Republic and Tanzania registered f u r t h er accumulations of arrears. Payments arrears also increased in Madagascar. Recent informa t ion on the situation concerning payments arrears in Gu inea and Guinea-Bissau is not available. On the basis of the latest available in fo rma t ion, outstand- ing payments arrears in all of the countries men- tioned above, other than Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Madagascar, and Tanzania, relate to pay- men ts delays on both current account and capital account transactions. Arrears have also been reported in a number of coun tr ies which share common currency arrange- ments. These arrears represent overdue payments by the public sector on commercial transactions and debt; service commitments and are owed to both external and internal creditors; they reflect shortages ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES of domestic currency arising f rom statutory restric- tions on borrowing by participating governments f rom the jo int central banks. Among the group of countries belonging to the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) ,17 the Central Afr ican Republic recorded a slight increase in payments arrears dur- ing the period. In February 1980 it introduced a program supported by the Fund to alleviate its bal- ance of payments problems. Gabon eliminated arrears, and in the People's Republic of the Congo arrears were reduced in accordance w i th targets speci- fied in Fund programs; recent data on arrears in Chad are unavailable. Togo, which shares the com- mon currency issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO),18 accumulated f u r t h er arrears on external debt service payments, while in Grenada, which shares the common currency issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, a decline in arrears was reported; in these two coun- tries, both of which were participating in Fund pro- grams, payments arrears were rescheduled du r ing the period under review. 5. Multiple Currency Practices Under the par value system of exchange rates, a member was obligated to ma in ta in the rates for exchange transactions w i th in its territory between its currency and the currencies of other members within margins of 1 per cent e i ther side of pa r i ty for spot transactions. Rates outside these marg ins or a spread of more than 2 per cent were considered to give rise to a multiple currency practice con trary to a member's obligations under Article V I I I, Sec- tion 3, unless authorized by Article XIV or approved by the Fund. W i th the Second Amendment of the Articles of Agreement, which took effect on April 1, 1978, the system of par values and the 1 per cent margin were replaced by a system in which mem- bers may choose their own exchange arrangemen ts. This change required a review of the concept of "a multiple currency practice." The freedom of members to choose their own exchange arrange- ments under Article IV of the Second Amendment does not dispense w i th the obligation of members to avoid engaging in multiple currency practices. In October 1979 the Executive Board of the Fund completed a review of the legal and operational aspects of multiple currency practices in the light 17 The members are Cameroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 18 The members are Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. of the Second Amendmen t. The Executive Board concluded tha t, pend ing a f u r t h er review, the Fund would con t inue to be guided by the following general principles: (1) a multiple currency practice arises on ly when created by official action, as distinct from the commercial costs of carry ing out the exchange transac t ions; or (2) the result of that action is either (a) a spread of more than 2 per cent between the buy ing and selling rates for spot exchange trans- actions between the member's currency and any other member's currency, or (b) a d ifference of more than 1 per cent between the mid-point spot exchange rates quoted for ano ther member's currency vis-a-vis the member's currency, and the mid-point spot exchange rates for the same currency in its pr inc ipal ma rke t. In the period under review, progress was made in u n i f y i ng or s imp l i fy ing existing dual exchange ma rket a r rangemen ts in A fghan is tan, Costa Rica, Egypt, Mau r i tan ia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Peru, Turkey, and U ruguay. In several of these countries, actions to reduce the incidence of mu l t ip le exchange rates were taken as part of policy programs supported by the use of Fund resources. In Afghanistan the multi- ple exchange rate s t ruc tu re that had existed for many years was abolished w i th the establishment of a uni- fied exchange rate system in May 1979. In Costa Rica the margin between official rates and those quoted on the stock exchange narrowed to w i th in 2 per cent. Egypt un i f ied the official and parallel exchange rates early in 1979 by s h i f t i ng all remain- ing t ransac t ions to the more depreciated rate (in te rms of Egyp t ian pounds per U.S. dollar) in the para l lel m a rk e t; the free foreign exchange marke t, however, rema ined operative, and a special exchange rate based on the former off ic ial rate continued to be applied to se t t lemen ts under bilateral payments agreements w i th nonmember countries of the Fund, as well as to liquidation accounts under de funct b i la teral paymen ts agreements. Mau r i tan ia, in March 1980, abolished the fixed exchange rates for trans- actions in b ankno t es for specified currencies, thereby p e rm i t t i ng such transac t ions to be effected at the official exchange rate. Nepal, in February 1980, took steps to reduce the rate d ifferen t ia ls w i th in its dual exchange ma rket system by appreciating the second, or more depreciated, rate. In Nicaragua the multiple exchange ma rket arrangement, which was adopted in April 1979, was discontinued in August. From March 1979 the exchange rate prem ium in Peru's ma rket for foreign currency certificates of deposit ceased to exceed the official exchange rate by more than 2 per cent for a significant period. In Uruguay 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANG EM EN TS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS the exchange ma rke ts were legally un i f ied on Novem- ber 28, 1979. As a result of the measures taken by the Un i ted Kingdom in October 1979 to d isman t le its system of exchange controls, the separate exchange ma rket for inves tment cu r rency ceased to exist. Among other coun tr ies m a i n t a i n i ng dual exchange ma rket a r rangemen t s, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, which had d iscon t inued th is type of exchange a r rangement in J u ne 1976, re-established the practice through the introduction of an exchange p r em i um on sales of foreign exchange to the Na t ional Bank by embassies and tourists or result- ing from un requ i ted private t rans fe rs, as part of the cu r rency reform effected in December 1979. In South A f r ica the scope of the inves tment cu r rency ma rket was w idened in J anu a ry 1979 w i th the replacement of the "securities rand" by the " f inan- cial rand ," which became accessible to a w ider range of assets, inc lud ing direct foreign inve s tmen ts and the acquisition of stocks in ex is t ing or newly formed companies. In Sudan a dual exchange mar- ket arrangement was established in September 1979, in a move associated w i th the abolition of ex i s t ing exchange subsidies and taxes. Zaire, in February 1979, depreciated f u r t h er the exchange ra te for exports of diamonds purchased from small-scale pro- ducers. There were no s ign i f icant new deve lopmen ts or specific measures d u r i ng the rev iew period in the other countries f e a t u r i ng forma l ized separate exchange rate arrangemen ts —name ly, Algeria, the BLEU, Ecuador, the Dom in ican Republic, Morocco, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Colombia adjusted the scope of its mu l t ip le cur- rency practices; from the beg inn ing of 1980, exports under official export-import regimes became eligible for exchange-related benefits in the fo rm of free ly negotiable tax credit certificates at a rate of 0.1 per cent of surrendered export earnings; previously, rates of up to 12 per cent were applied to the added value of certain exports, depending on the commod- ity. In the same month, the coverage of the special tax on outward remittances was reduced by exclud- ing rental payments for television movies. In con- nection w i th its acceptance of the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, Dominica in December 1979 abolished the 2.5 per cent tax on sales of foreign exchange by the banks. Ref lec t ing the va r ious ameliorative steps taken d u r i ng the review period, multiple currency practices in Tu rkey in the form of separate effective exchange rates arising from spe- cific official measures, had by early 1980 been 18 reduced in essence to two fo rm s: (1) an advance import deposit requ i rement amoun t ing to 10 per cent of import costs for the public sector and 15 per cent and 30 per cent for the private sector; and (2) the export re ten t ion quota und er which 50 per cent of foreign exchange earn ings from exports of m i n i ng and manu fac tu res can be used d i rec t ly by the exporter at freely de te rm ined rates, for the impo r t a t ion of inpu ts for export produc t ion. In K enya the advance import deposit requ i rement intro- duced in December 1978, wh ich had given rise to a m u l t i p le cu r rency practice, was reduced in Novem- ber 1979 f rom 100 per cent and 25 per cent of the c . i .f. va lue of imports to 50 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively. Paraguay, in November 1979, removed the l im it of 20 per cent on profit remittances by for- eign investors. U rugu ay eliminated two of its three r em a i n i ng multiple currency practices upon the approval of the tax reform law in November 1979. Several coun tr ies increased the scope of mu l t ip le cu r rency practices. Numerous new effec t ive exchange rates in Braz il arose from the in t roduc t ion, in connection w i th the series of measures adopted in December 1979 and early 1980, of export taxes on a w ide range of p r ima ry products; the taxes were collected at the t ime of surrender of export proceeds. In Ap r il 1980 Brazil applied a tax of 15 per cent to purchases of fore ign exchange for imports of goods and services. The ra te of tax was to be lowered to 10 per cent on September 1, 1980. In Iran the au tho r i t ies in t roduced both a preferen t ial rate to be applied to the su r render of export proceeds by the p r iv a te sector and an unoff ic ial and substantially deprec ia ted rate for use in meeting part of the exchange requ i remen ts for travel. W i thout showing s ign i f icant changes du r ing the period under review, mu l t ip le cu r rency practices in relation to specific t ransac t ions con t inued in Bangladesh, Ghana, Ice- land, and Romania. 6. Bilateral Payments Arrangements There was a fu r th er reduction in the number of b i la te ral paymen ts a r rangemen ts du r ing the period und er review, although progress in e l im ina t ing such a r rangemen ts was slower than in some other recent years. The use of such agreements as a vehicle for f u r t h e r i ng t rad ing relationships has con t inued to decline. Four a r rangemen ts between member coun- tries, those between Colombia and Spain, Cyprus and Roman ia, Egypt and Mali, and between Egypt and Jordan, were either suspended or terminated. The comparative statistics presented in previous years have been distorted to some extent by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES inclusion of nonopera t ive agreements. If such agree- men ts are excluded, by early 1980 a total of 28 Fund member coun tr ies were m a i n t a i n i ng some 29 agree- ments.19 In addition, four agreements between mem- bers and nonmembers were e l im ina ted, name ly, those ma in ta ined by Cyprus, Egypt, Greece, and India, respectively, w i th Hungary, Czechoslovakia, the U.S.S.R., and Bulgaria. Zaire, however, concluded a new arrangement w i th Angola. The total of bilateral payments arrangements of Fund members with non- members in early 1980 was estimated at 123. 7. Capital Flows The major developments in capital controls among indu s t r ial countries were the historic decision by the United Kingdom to dismantle its system of exchange controls and the con t inu ing liberalization of capital movements by Japan. Measures to control capital flows taken by some of the other industrial countries represented a con t inu ing effort to improve domestic monetary management. Few developing countries took steps to relax existing restraints on capital out- flows; while the developing countries, in general, continued to encourage capital inflows, several tight- ened their regulations on foreign borrowing to strengthen the management of domestic l i q u i d i ty and external debt. The progressive abolition of exchange controls by the United Kingdom eliminated all barriers to inward and outward flows of capital. In June 1979 the first steps included the removal of restrictions on the reinvestment of profits from outward direct invest- ments and the introduction of a substantial annual allowance of official exchange for the financing of such investments. In July 1979 all restrictions on outward direct investment were abolished, and sig- n if icant steps were also taken to liberalize outward portfolio investment. All the rema in ing controls (except for those relating to Southern Rhodesia which were finally removed in December 1979) were abolished in October 1979. Among the effects of this was that, as mentioned earlier, the inve s tment currency market ceased to exist. Japan took fu r th er major steps to liberalize capital movements. In March 1979 the ceilings on oversold spot position (swap quotas) of foreign banks were raised. Japanese banks were allowed to be in over- sold spot positions under ceilings set for individual banks. In May 1979 the M in is try of Finance announced a seven-point program for relaxing restric- 19 From Ap r il 1980, the n um b er would be higher if account were taken of agreemen ts w i th the People's Republic of China. t ions on capital inf lows which included the follow- ing: ( 1) an extension of the maximum import usance period; (2) the freeing of export prepay- ment f rom government approval; (3) abolishing the m a x im um conversion period for proceeds of foreign yen bonds and yen syndicated loans; (4) easing of curbs on the use of impact loans with the repayment period exceeding one year; (5) l if t ing of the ban on short-term impact loans; (6) l if t ing of the 25 per cent limit on the share of nonresidents in subscrip- tion to foreign yen bonds; and (7) extending access to the gensaki market (a repurchase market for short-term trading in bonds) to nonresidents. Also in May the Japanese authorities authorized Japanese and foreign banks operating in Japan to issue yen- denominated negotiable certificates of deposit with ma rket determined interest rates and maturities of between three and six months. In November 1979 the Ministry of Finance announced further measures aimed at encouraging capital inflows and improving surveillance of foreign exchange transactions as fol- lows: ( 1) authorized foreign exchange banks were to report daily the volume of transactions, both inter- bank and vis-a-vis customers, as well as individual transac t ions exceeding US$5 million; (2) the main trading companies were to report monthly the out- standing balances of forward exchange purchased and sold in relation to foreign trade; (3) securities companies and foreign exchange banks were to report three times a month the amount of short-term foreign securities acquired by residents, and the amount of currency deposits by residents; (4) net actual foreign currency positions both for foreign banks in Japan and for Japanese authorized foreign exchange banks were to be expanded in January 1980; and (5) administrative controls on impact loans were to be fu r ther liberalized. In December 1979 a major revision of the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law significantly liberalizing capital controls received parliamentary approval. The new law, which was to become effective with the completion of the implementing regulations, scheduled for the second half of 1980, provided that, in general, foreign transactions including foreign bor- row ing could be made freely. Provided advance notice was given, Japanese banks could lend abroad, Japanese firms could issue bonds abroad and yen bonds could be issued by nonresidents. In addition, the ¥ 3 million limit on residents' foreign currency deposits w i th resident banks would be abolished. In March 1980 as part of a new yen defense pro- gram, Japan announced fu r th er measures to facilitate the in f low of foreign fund s: (1) the raising of funds 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS from abroad through interoffice free yen accounts by the authorized foreign exchange banks would be permitted on a more flexible basis; (2) free yen deposits held by public institutions including foreign central banks would be exempted from the legal ceiling on interest rates; (3) the pr iva te placement abroad by Japanese firms of yen bonds would be permitted more freely; and (4) medium-term and long-term impact loans by Japanese banks could be permitted. In April 1979 the U.S. Comptroller of the Cur- rency ruled that U.S. banks could lend more than 10 per cent of their capital funds to a foreign govern- ment and its agencies if they could demonstrate that the agencies were not controlled by the government and were not acting as intermediaries for the gov- ernment to obtain funds. In June the U.S. Federal Reserve Board issued regulations to implement the provisions of the International Bank ing Act of 1978 relating to Edge Act Corporations, which are sub- sidiaries of banks or bank holding companies and are able to engage in in terna t ional bank ing opera- tions outside the banks' state of operation. Under the new regulations, these corporations were allowed to establish branches in more than one state for the purpose of providing in terna t ional financial services. The regulations also governed lending limits and capital requirements for these corporations, and for- eign investment by U.S. bank ing organizations. In September the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Cor- poration (FDIC) issued final regulations to imple- ment the section of the International Banking Act providing for FDIC insurance for all domestic deposits in a U.S. branch of a foreign bank that accepts deposits of less than US$100,000. In March 1979 the U.S. Treasury issued regula- tions providing for the transfer of U.S. bank deposits and certain other funds of the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kam- puchea, Estonia, German Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, North Korea, and Viet Nam, which had been blocked under Treasury regulations, to interest-bearing accounts. In May an agreement was signed between the United States and the Peo- ple's Republic of China for the settlement of mu tual claims, and in October the two countries agreed to postpone the unblocking of Chinese assets in the United States until January 1980. These assets were unblocked on January 31, 1980. The U.S. Treasury also liberalized the rules governing payments by U.S. agencies to persons in the People's Republic of China; blocked assets were not affected. Effective November 14, 1979 the United States blocked all 20 assets of the Government of Iran and its instrumen- talities and controlled entities, including the Central Bank of Iran, which were subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or in the possession or control of persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, including foreign affiliates of U.S. firms. Later in November, under amendments to these regulations, the U.S. Treasury authorized foreign branches and subsidiaries of U.S. firms to exercise the right of set-off against blocked Iranian assets held by them; unblocked Iranian foreign currency deposits held by foreign branches and subsidiaries of U.S. firms; and permitted transfers by Iranian entities for payment of obligations to U.S. persons through bank ing facilities in payment of obligations to U.S. persons. The United States introduced fu r- ther amendments to these regulations in April 1980 that included the prohibition of certain payments and transfers by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the Un i ted States which involved the Government of Iran, its instrumentalities or controlled entities, enterprises controlled by Iran, or persons in Iran, and certain paymen ts related to trade and mainte- nance w i th in Iran by most U.S. persons. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the Bundes- bank and the banks entered into a six-month gentle- men's agreement in March 1979 whereby the banks undertook not to place deutsche mark bonds abroad through their Luxembourg subsidiaries. This agree- ment was extended for another six months in Sep- tember. Effective February 1, 1980 the credit insti- tu t ions were required by the Federal Banking Supervisory Office to include their open positions in gold, silver, and p la t inum in the calculation of their daily open exchange positions. Also in December the credit institutions were instructed to report, from March 31, 1980, the status of nonresident claims and liabilities of the ir foreign branches by currency and country. Switzerland removed a number of barriers and disincentives to capital inflows. In May 1979 the requirements of prior approval for foreign borrow- ing by resident nonbanks, of balancing daily the banks' foreign currency positions, and the authority to sterilize Swiss franc proceeds of exchange market in terven t ion (which had never been applied) were abolished. In June the requirement that foreign bor- rowers of Swiss currency convert 50 per cent of the proceeds at the National Bank was lifted. In Sep- tember 1979 the limit on the forward sale to for- eigners of Swiss francs w i th maturities of over ten days was raised from 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the October 31, 1974 level; the ceiling applicable for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES forward sales of up to ten days' m a tu r i ty remained at 20 per cent. In November the nega t ive interest requ iremen ts on Swiss f ranc deposits of nonresidents were reduced from 10 per cent to 2.5 per cent a quarter, and in December 1979 these requ iremen ts were abolished, although nonresidents' deposits were still not allowed to earn interest. In February 1980, however, the embargo on the payment of interest on these deposits was removed. Among other European countries, Ireland in March 1979 suspended the 50 per cent deposit requirement on the in f low of capital through com- mercial banks. The Netherlands in June 1979 liber- alized the so-called five million regulation which limited the permitted net spot foreign liabilities posi- tion of authorized banks to f. 5 million. Thence- forth, a margin of 10 per cent was permitted on the first f. 500 million of gross foreign assets, including export finance bills, 5 per cent on the next f. 500 million, and 1 per cent on any additional gross for- eign assets. The l im it was removed entirely in Janu- ary 1980. In October Norway suspended un t il fu r- ther notice the max imum l im it of NKr 100,000 which nonbank nonresidents were allowed to hold on deposit at Norwegian banks. South Afr ica in June 1979 liberalized outward capital t rans fe rs by residents. Thenceforth, they normally were to take place at the financial rand rate instead of the com- mercial rand rate and permission for such transfers would be granted more freely. Spain, in April 1979, established a noninterest-bearing deposit requ irement equal to 25 per cent of the value of all foreign loans and credits, both in foreign currencies and in pesetas, from foreign accounts authorized by the Bank of Spain to Spanish and foreign residents in Spain; the deposits were repayable in proportion to the amoun ts amortized. Exempt from this requ irement were loans which did not give rise to a net en t ry of funds in to Spain. The deposit requirement was abolished in October. Sweden permitted authorized banks to raise short-term loans in foreign currencies for on-lending to resident enterprises for import and export financing. In the area of portfolio inves tmen t, Denmark announced in February 1979 that nonresidents could no longer purchase Danish Government k rone bonds issued since 1975 from residents w i thout permission from the National Bank; permission would not nor- mally be granted. In February 1979 an amount of deutsche mark-denominated U.S. Treasury notes to the value of DM 2.5 billion was placed in the Fed- eral Republic of Germany for purchase by residents. A fur ther placement of these deutsche mark-denom- inated bearer notes to the total value of DM 4 billion was made in November 1979 and Janua ry 1980. These notes could not be sold or resold to nonresi- dents. In March 1980 the Federal Republic of Ger- many permitted nonresidents to hold domestic fixed interest securities w i th a ma tu r i ty of two years or more; previously, the m in imum ma tur i ty for the ho ld ing of such securities was fixed at four years. In addition, the rules governing the sale abroad by commercial banks of deutsche mark-denominated promissary notes were relaxed. Thenceforth, approval would be given for sales of these notes with a ma tu r i ty of more than two years. Ireland, in Sep- tember 1979, allowed insurance companies and pen- sion f u n ds to increase the ir holdings of foreign cur- rency securities up to 10 per cent of their Irish net ac tua r ial liabilities. At the same time, professional portfolio managers were allowed to acquire foreign cu r rency securities w i th borrowed foreign currency. In October 1979 the Central Bank of Ireland announced that the special arrangements in the Irish exchange controls applying to transactions involving U.K. residents were abolished. Restrictions on the reinvestment by Irish resident holders in other for- eign currency securities of the sales proceeds of ex is t ing holdings of sterling securities were also l i f ted. In Janua ry 1979 Japan permitted nonresi- dent purchases of yen bonds w i th remaining matu- rities of 13 mon ths or more; previously, purchases of bonds w i th rema in ing maturities of less than five years and one mon th had been banned. In February 1979 the rema in ing restrictions on nonresident pur- chases of yen bonds were lifted. The new Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law of Japan, wh ich is scheduled to take effect in the second half of 1980, freed most inward and outward portfolio inves tment f rom the requirement of approval; such approval, in practice, had been given automatically. In August 1979 the Ne ther lands relaxed restrictions on foreign borrowing. The yearly limits on borrow- ing by residents from nonresidents were raised from f. 300,000 to f. 500,000. The m in imum ma tur i ty was lowered from ten years to seven years. The pro- ceeds of Euro-guilder issues could be spent in the N e th e r l ands subject to certain conditions. In Octo- ber 1979 the Bank of Norway allowed nonresidents to buy shares in joint-stock companies and bearer bonds up to a value of NKr 1 million; previously, a ceiling of NKr 50,000 applied to such purchases. Ou twa rd po r t fo l io inves tment was liberalized by Spain in November 1979: insurance companies, banks, and savings ins t i tu t ions were allowed to invest in foreign securities up to 10 per cent of any increase 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in their fiscal capital. Mu tu al f u n ds were allowed to invest in foreign stock markets up to a l im it to be established by the M in is try of Finance. All residents were free to invest in bonds issued abroad by Spanish public or private entities or by in terna t ional organi- zations. Switzerland abolished in Janua ry 1979 reg- ulations proh ib i t ing the purchase of Swiss franc- denominated securities by nonresidents and lifted limitations on subscriptions by foreign investors. In the area of direct foreign inves tmen t, Australia in Janua ry 1979 allowed net earnings from direct investments overseas to be retained abroad without the specific approval of the central bank, for financ- ing increased work ing capital and planned f u t u re expansion. In June 1979 the requirement of 75 per cent Australian equity participation in u ran ium m ine development was lowered to a m in imum of 50 per cent in cases of significant economic benefit to Aus- tralia where local capital could not be obtained and where Aus tra l ians retained policy control. The Fed- eral Republic of Germany, in order to s t imu la te pri- vate investment in developing countries, provided more favorable conditions for investment in the 30 least developed countries and in raw materials and energy production. In September 1979 Finland per- mitted residents to purchase real estate abroad up to a l im it of Fmk 150,000. The new Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law of Japan provided for a significant liberalization of inward and outward direct investment and outward invest- ment in real estate. Outward direct inves tmen ts could take place, provided prior notification was given, as could inward investment, except in speci- fied industries and any other cases where such invest- ment would have an adverse effect on the economy. New Zealand relaxed controls on inward direct investment. Foreign takeovers of companies or pur- chases of businesses valued at less than US$500,000 would receive automatic approval and the amount of borrowing which overseas-owned companies m ight raise from local sources was increased substantially. In October 1979 Norway increased the l im it on the transfer of capital abroad for the purchase of real estate for recreational purposes from NKr 150,000 to NKr 250,000 a family. In September 1979 Spain announced a liberalization of outward direct invest- ments. In July 1979, however, Sweden banned new investment in South Africa and Namibia. Among the developing countries which introduced new measures affecting capital flows through the banking system, Bolivia, in November 1979, pro- hibited banks and exchange houses from ma in ta in ing deposits on their own account, either abroad or 22 locally, us ing foreign exchange provided by the Cen- t ral Bank. At the same time, ceilings were placed on short-term and medium-term foreign exchange l iab i l i t ies of banks. Liabilities in excess of these l im i ts became subject to a 100 per cent reserve deposit requirement. In April 1979 Brazil tightened restrictions on con- version into domestic currency of the proceeds of foreign borrowing. The fu ll amount of a loan was made subject to manda tory deposit of which 50 per cent remained frozen until amortization payments began; the remaining 50 per cent of loan value was refundab le in stages w i th in 210 days. As part of the series of measures introduced in December 1979, new foreign loans were no longer subject to the 50 per cent deposit requirement pending amortiza- t ion; instead the whole amount of the loan proceeds became subject to a scheduled release over 210 days. In J a n u a ry 1980 the amount to be deposited in respect of borrowing by private enterprises was reduced to 75 per cent of the proceeds, and the schedule of releases was lowered to 120 days over- all. In December 1979 the regulations governing vo lun t a ry deposits in respect of short-term foreign financial loans were modified, as follows: (1) volun- t a ry deposits of these loans at the Central Bank by non f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions were frozen for an indef in i te period; these f u n ds are refundable only as (a) amor- t iza t ion and interest payments fall due, (b) the loans are transformed into equ i ty capital or, (c) they are needed to finance high-priority projects; and (2) vol- u n t a ry deposits of these loans by financial institu- t ions were subject to a manda tory m in imum waiting period of 180 days. Ano ther measure affecting external borrowing was the raising of the limit of foreign borrowing by commercial banks from two to four t imes their capital and surplus. Chile in troduced a number of measures relating to fore ign borrowing. In April 1979 deposit require- men ts were imposed against certain foreign borrow- ings at the rate of 25 per cent for maturities between two and three years and 15 per cent for longer ma tu r i t ies; the deposits were noninterest bearing. In May 1979 the reserve requirement for longer matu- ities was modified to 15 per cent for borrowings at terms of three to four years, 10 per cent for those of four to five and a half years, and was eliminated for maturities over five and a half years. In June the l im it on the external indebtedness of commercial banks, which previously stood at 225 per cent of capital and reserves, was eliminated, and in August the mon th ly ceiling on net disbursements of foreign loans by commercial banks was reduced. In Sep- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES tember the requ i rement that l ines of credit in foreign currency granted by domestic banks to foreign banks be used solely for the f i n a n c i ng of Ch i lean exports was l i f ted. Also in September, b ank ing i n s t i t u t i o ns were perm i t ted to t ransact arb i trage operations w i th foreign correspondents. Tn February 1979 Colombia exempted foreign currency liabilities contracted by public sector financial ins t i tu t ions from the ex is t ing m in imum reserve requirement, provided that they were l inked to the financing of approved m i n i ng projects and would not exceed 15 per cent of total costs. In May banks were authorized to prepay external loan obligations and have the repaymen ts counted against the banks' m in imum reserve require- men ts on net foreign liabilities. In June the m i n i- mum reserve requ iremen ts on foreign liabilities of commercial banks were reduced. Ecuador included public financial development ins t i tu t ions among the entities for which loan capital f rom fore ign govern- ments and in te rna t ional organizations can be con- verted in the official market. Israel introduced a number of measures designed to control capital inflows. In February 1979 a total ban was placed on foreign currency loans by Israeli companies and individuals. In Apr il the ban was l if ted and replaced by a system of controls which took the form of sup- plementary interest payments. All borrowing by resident commercial banks from nonres ident en t i t ies was made subject to a 12 per cent interest charge, while borrowing by nonbank residents was made subject to a compulsory deposit in U.S. dollars of 30 per cent of total proceeds. A negative interest rate of 17 per cent per a n n um was applied against these deposits. In November 1979 Israel announced a total freeze on foreign currency credits effective for 90 days. Korea significantly liberalized foreign exchange regulations in January 1979. Korean banks were permitted to handle all foreign exchange transactions not specifically prohibited. Residents were permitted to hold foreign currency deposit accounts w i th foreign exchange banks. Offshore bank ing activities were permitted and the restrictions on forward exchange transactions were eased, while the restrictions on the holding of foreign stocks and securities by foreign exchange banks were removed. Also in Janua ry 1979 the max imum permissible interest rate spreads and service charges for foreign loans were lowered. In February 1979 the m in imum allowable amount for foreign borrowing was reduced from US$10 million to US$5 million, and the list of industries eligible to obtain foreign loans was extended. In March 1979 foreign currency swaps between branches of foreign banks in Korea and Korean banks except the Bank of Korea were pro- h ib i ted. In April 1979 restrictions on the m in imum amount for fore ign borrow ing were l if ted. Malaysia relaxed its fore ign exchange control regulations in J u ne 1979. Au thor ized banks were delegated increased au tho r i ty to approve payments to non- residents and to approve both the repayment of loans obtained f rom nonresidents and the pay- ment of interest on such loans. Borrowing from nonresidents was freely perm i t ted, up to M$ 100,000. In J u ly 1979 Nicaragua nationalized domestic banks and established certain l im i ta t ions for the opera- t ion of foreign banks. In March 1979 Peru per- m i t ted financial in s t i tu t ions to open current accounts w i th banks abroad w i th foreign exchange resources o ther t h an those derived from exports. In July 1979 Peru applied a 10 per cent noninterest- bea r ing cash deposit requ i rement in local currency to new ex te rnal borrowing or loan renewals. The deposit requ irement was raised to 15 per cent in August 1979 and was increased again to 25 per cent in J anu a ry 1980. The Ph i l ipp ines introduced new regulations in Ju ly 1979, in order to gain better control over short- term borrow ing from offshore bank ing units and fore ign cu r rency deposit un i ts. All such borrowing, except normal in terbank transactions, was made sub- ject to pr ior Central Bank approval which would be g iven only to finance foreign exchange requirements of domestic borrowers. Sri Lanka also took steps to encourage the development of offshore banking. In May 1979 commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka were au thor ized to establish foreign currency banking un i t s, which could accept t ime and demand deposits and make loans, in any designated foreign currency w i th respect to nonresidents and specified residents. In May 1979 Tha i land l if ted the 10 per cent w i th- ho ld ing tax on foreign borrowing by commercial banks, and in September removed the interest rate ce i l ing on non re s ident accounts in foreign currencies. In J anu a ry 1979 U ruguay e l im ina ted the marginal reserve requ i remen ts on increases in foreign deposits over average da i ly balances in December 1978 and in May 1979 also eliminated the reserve requirements on foreign currency deposits by residents and non- residents at commercial banks. Several developing countries introduced regula- t ions a f fec t ing foreign direct investment. Brazil announced in February 1979 that foreign-owned companies would be permitted to convert foreign loans into nonvoting equity capital. A new foreign inves tment law was adopted by Bu rundi under which 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE A R R A NG EM E N TS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS guarantees were provided for freedom of settlement, adequate allocations of foreign exchange, and the repatriation of invested capital. In February 1979 Saudi Arabia prov ided tax concessions for fo re ign inves tment in jo int agr icu l tural and indu s t r i al ven- tures with at least 25 per cent Saudi A rab ian par- ticipation. In June 1979 Singapore announced that companies inves t ing in Singapore would receive an inves tment allowance in the fo rm of a tax exemption. Uganda repealed its Foreign Inve s tment Decree and specified the industries that are to be reserved for government ownership, while Venezuela restricted borrowing from domestic banks by foreign-owned companies. The Philippines issued guidelines for the approval of Ph i l ipp ine inves tmen ts abroad. 8. Gold A number of coun tr ies liberalized regulations gov- e rn ing transactions in gold, inc lud ing procedures for export and import trade in gold. A rgen t ina per- mitted f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies to buy and sell gold in coin or in bars. Gold exports no longer required the prior approval of the Central Bank. Chile e l im ina ted the special regulations requ ir ing the prior au tho r iza t ion of the Central Bank for trade in gold. In March 1979 new regulations were issued by France, simpli- fy ing the procedures for imports and exports of indus t r ial gold, which also became exempt from prior authorization. Norway removed all controls on sales of unworked gold. In December Israel issued new regulations for the purchase, sale, and ho ld ing of gold. Four categories of gold were established, gold bullion for indus try, bullion for inves tmen t, specified coins for investment, and other specified gold coin. In June the United Kingdom removed all controls on the import of, and dealing in, gold coin and medals. In October all dealings in gold were freed from restrictions. In Janua ry 1980 the Federal Republic of Germany applied value-added tax also to the sale of gold coins which are legal tender, while Switzerland imposed a tax on transactions in gold and gold coin; bank-to-bank transactions in gold were exempted. Several countries, inc lud ing Australia and Canada, issued new gold coins or announced plans to do so. III. Main Developments in Regional Arrangements There were important steps in regional economic cooperation dur ing the period under review, includ- ing the establishment of new regional arrangements such as the European Monetary System (EMS), as well as the strengthening and enlargement of exist- ing arrangements. 24 The en t ry in to operation of the EMS agreement,20 wh ich was delayed from the originally proposed date of J a n u a ry 1, 1979 because of continuing discus- sion among EC member states on the monetary a r rangemen ts of the Commun i ty's agricultural pol- icy, took place on March 13, 1979. The Finance Min- isters of the EC completed a six-monthly review of the system on September 17, 1979, found that it was func t ion ing smoothly, and recommended no changes. The review, which was provided for in the Resolution of the European Council of December 5, 1978, covered the operation of the divergence indi- cator, ques t ions regarding imbalances accumulated by d ivergent creditor or debtor countries, and the composition ot currencies in the ECU basket. In the commun ique issued by the Heads of State and Gov- e rnmen ts of the EC countries following their meeting in Luxembourg on Apr il 27-28, 1980, the European Council confirmed its resolve to see the Community progress toward the objective of monetary integra- tion and invited the relevant Community bodies to press ahead w i th work in order to move on to the ins t i tu t ional stage. W i th respect to the enlargement of the EC, the Treaty of Accession of Greece was signed on May 28, 1979.21 This treaty, which would make Greece the t en th member of the EC, effec t ive J anu a ry 1, 1981, provides for a five-year trans i t ion period, du r ing wh ich Greece will progressively rfeduce to zero cus- toms du t ies applied on indu s t r ial imports from the EC. In principle, q u a n t i t a t i ve restrictions and meas- ures h a v i ng equ iva lent effect on mu tual trade in indu s t r i al products will be abolished on accession, but Greek import quotas on 14 products, which are to rema in in effec t, will be increased annually and abolished at the end of the transition period. With respect to the agricultural sector, customs duties will be progressively eliminated, Greek prices will be aligned w i th EC prices, and production aids w i ll be extended to Greece dur ing the transition period (wh ich is extended to seven years in the case of tomatoes and peaches). During this period, price d i f fe ren t ia ls w i ll be offset by a system of accession compensation. From the date of accession, Greece w i ll apply the provisions of the EC's preferential agreements, subject to transitional exceptions. Com- plete freedom of movement of Greek citizens within -° Opera t ional aspects of the exchange rate and interven- t ion mechan ism of the EMS were described in Section I. See page 4. 21 Greece also acceded to the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) and to the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS the EC will apply a f ter seven years f rom the date of accession. Parallel to the con t inu ing negotiations on the accession of Portugal to the EC, negotiations were held on a supplementary protocol to the 1972 Agreement between these parties and the 1978 addi- tional protocol. The supplementary protocol, which took effect on J a n u a ry 1, 1980 and will be valid for two years, involves measures to improve Portugal's balance of payments, to fac i l i ta te its economic devel- opment efforts, and to help it prepare for subsequent Commun i ty membership. The measures taken by Portugal include the suspension of scheduled ta r i ff reductions in respect of EC products, the continu- ation of measures protecting emerging industries, and the promotion of investment by European car firms and of the export of locally assembled cars. In tu rn, the Commun i ty would reduce barriers on cer- ta in imports from Portugal. To fu r ther aid Portugal, the Commission of the EC proposed in October 1979 that the remaining amount of loan f u n ds under the financial protocol w i th Portugal (EUA 120 mil- lion out of a total of EUA 200 m i l l ion) be made available by October 31, 1981 rather than spread out over an additional two years. Dur ing 1979 negotiations on the accession of Spain to the EC and reviews of the 1970 commer- cial agreement between the two parties took place concurrently. The new EC Borrowing and Lending In s t rument (also known as the "Ortoli Facility") was launched on September 18, 1979, w i th the announcement of loans to Ireland, Italy, and the United K ingdom. These loans, amoun t ing to EUA 231.7 million, were to finance energy and in f ras t ruc tu re projects and represented less than half of the authorized amount of EUA 500 million. While the Commission decides on the eligibility of projects, the loans are made and administered by the European Inves tment Bank (EIB). Under the November 1978 overall Cooperation Agreements and Financial Protocols between the EC and the Maghreb countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia) and the Mashreq countries (Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, and the Syrian Arab Repub l ic), the EC approved on March 19, 1979 a second set of project financing. For the Maghreb and Mashreq countries as a whole, a grant of EUA 3 million (not to exceed EUA 0.5 million for each coun try) was earmarked for technical cooperation activities. Special loans and grants amounting to EUA 5.7 million were allo- cated for agricultural and t ra in ing projects in Jordan, Egypt, and Tunisia. Four separate agreements between the ECSC and the Mashreq countries came in to effect on Janua ry 1, 1980. The agreements invo lve customs du ty exemp t ions for steel products impor ted from Mashreq countries, with the possi- b i l i ty for the ECSC to take suitable measures in case of abnormally low export prices. The th i rd EC-Turkey Financial Protocol took effect on May 1, 1979. Under this protocol, which expires on October 31, 1981, the EC will make ava i lab le f u n d i ng in the amount of EUA 310 million, of wh ich EUA 220 million will be under concession- ary conditions. On May 8, 1979, in view of the economic d iff icu l t ies of Turkey, the Community agreed to certain measures w i th in the context of the EC-Turkey Association Agreement relaxing the con- d i t ions for Turkey's association w i th the Community. D i f f icu l t ies in agreement upon operational guidelines have delayed the implementation of the protocol. In June 1979 the first phase of the 1973 EC- Cyp rus Association Agreement was extended for ano ther year, un t il the end of 1980. Negotiations on the second stage, which envisages fu r ther liberal- ization of mu tual trade restrictions, were scheduled to commence by June 1980. The EC and Israel undertook a review of the 1975 agreement on economic and commercial cooperation in mid-February 1979. Among the more impor tant issues was the possible impact on Israel's trade of the accession of Greece and, eventually, Spain. A cooperation agreement to replace the EC-Yugo- slavia trade agreement, which has been tacitly ex tended since August 30, 1978, was the subject of nego t ia t ions between the two parties on July 2-3, 1979. A consensus was reached that the new agree- ment would con ta in nonreciprocal trade preferences in favor of Yugoslavia, as well as provisions for indu s t r ia l, financial, and scientific cooperation. On February 27, 1979 negotiations between the EC and Roman ia were opened, with a view to con- c lud ing b i la te ral agreements on trade in indus t r ial products (except steel and textiles which are already covered by agreements) and on the establishment of a jo int committee w i th competence over all bilateral agreements between the two parties. On May 3, 1979, the EC-People's Republic of Ch ina Jo int Committee met in Beijing for the first t ime, under the auspices of the economic and trade cooperation agreement between the two parties. Among the topics discussed were the negotiation of a textile agreement, the inclusion of the People's Republic of China in the Community's Generalized System of Preferences (eventually agreed to be effec- tive 1980), and the expansion of mu tual trade. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS The 1979 Lome Convention covering the period 1980-85 was signed on October 31, 1979 by the EC and 58 African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) states.22 This agreement will replace the 1975 Lome Convention and will deal with five areas. In the field of trade cooperation, the list of ACP products eli- gible for duty-free entry into the EC was enlarged to cover 99.5 per cent of ACP exports. The remain- ing products, though not enjoying free access, would receive preferential treatment. Moreover, a special protocol guarantees ACP sugar exporters a price equivalent to that offered to EC producers. On the stabilization of export earnings, the coverage of the STABEX23 mechanism was increased from 34 to 44 basic tropical products. In the field of financial and technical cooperation, the funds available to ACP countries through the European Development Fund (EDF) or through the EIB were increased from EUA 3,457 million to EUA 5,607 million, of which EUA 280 million was earmarked for the new min- eral export assistance scheme. Lastly, in respect of industrial and agricultural cooperation, efforts will be stepped up in areas such as energy prospecting, new energy sources, maritime transport, and fishing. Private investment from EC countries will receive added protection through a guarantee of equal treat- ment, regardless of country of origin. The resources of the Industrial Development Center, which pro- motes contacts between entrepreneurs, will be increased. Furthermore, a technical cooperation center in the field of agricultural and rural develop- ment will be set up. The second conference on industrial cooperation between the EC and the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)24 was held in Jakarta on 22 The 58 ACP states are divided into the following categories by Lome II: (1) the least developed countries— Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Dominica, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Rwanda, St. Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, Upper Volta, and Western Samoa; (2) the islands and landlocked countries —Bahamas, Barbados, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Jamaica, Madagascar, Mauritius, Papua New Guinea, Trinidad and Tobago, Zaire, and Zambia; and ( 3) the others —Cameroon, Congo, Gabon, Ghana, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal, and Suriname. Among these countries, St. Lucia and K ir iba ti became ACP states in 1979. 23 A system for guaranteeing the stabilization of earn- ings from exports to the EC by ACP countries in respect of important export commodities which are affected by fluctuations in price and quantity. 24 Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand. 26 February 26-28, 1979. Sponsored by the two groups, this conference brought together represen- tatives of the private business sector with a view to promoting investment in ASEAN countries. The latter put forward about 180 investment projects for consideration by European investors. The EC and the ASEAN countries completed negotiations on a five-year commercial and economic cooperation agreement on November 30, 1979. The agreement, which is nonpreferential in nature, provides for investment protection and promotion on a nondis- criminatory basis, most-favored-treatment of trade (w i th provisions taking into account that Thailand is not a contracting party to the GATT), and inten- sification of EC financial and technical aid, espe- cially in the areas of food production, rural devel- opment, and regional development cooperation. In early November 1979, discussions were held between representatives of the EC and the Andean Pact countries25 to explore the possibility of nego- tiating an economic cooperation agreement. In late November 1979 officials of the EC and the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA)20 met in Moscow to continue talks started in 1976 on a cooperation agreement. In June 1979 the Council of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)27 extended, for an additional year, the declaration of May 30, 1974 amended by the Council's decision of June 15, 1978 which enjoined participating coun- tries to avoid the use of trade restrictions for balance of payments purposes. In renewing the declaration, the Council called for an examination of ways and means to ensure that the objectives which lay behind the trade declaration were maintained. The examina- tion was to be carried out in light of the results of the MTN and of developments concerning North- South trade relations, as well as other major factors which set the stage for trade policies in the 1980s. The member countries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA)28 and Spain signed a free trade agreement on June 26, 1979. The objec- 25 Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. 26 The participants are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 27 The member countries are Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxem- bourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and United States. 28 Austria, Iceland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, and Swit- zerland. Finland is an associate member. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS tive of the agreement, which took effect on Janu- ary 1, 1980, is to eliminate all tariffs and other trade restrictions between the EFT A countries and Spain. The immediate effect will be the achievement of the same level of trade liberalization between the EFTA countries and Spain as applies between Spain and the EC. At their summit meeting held in Dakar on May 28-29, 1979, the Heads of State of the Economic Community of West African States (EcowAS)20 confirmed May 28, 1979 as the begin- ning of a two-year period in which tariff and non- tariff barriers on mutual trade would be frozen. Furthermore, member states were invited to ra t ify the Protocol relating to the free movement of people within the Community. A program for the improve- ment of telecommunication networks was also adopted. The Multinational Programming and Operational Center (MULPOC) of the UN Economic Commis- sion for Africa held a meeting in Nairobi on Febru- ary 1-3, 1979 for the Finance Ministers of countries of the subregion of eastern and southern Africa.30 The meeting launched interstate negotiations on the establishment of a preferential trade area. It also proposed measures to reduce the subregion's depend- ency on foreign shipping for their trade, including the establishment of a MULPOC freight booking cen- ter. On June 12, 1979 a conference of eastern and southern African states approved three protocols on the interstate transportation of goods, simplifica- tion and harmonization of trading documents and procedures, and harmonization of trade barriers. On October 8-9, 1979 representatives of these states began formal negotiations on a draft Protocol on Clearing and Payments Arrangements covering the subregion. The heads of state of the West African Economic Community (WAEC)31 held their fifth summit meet- ing at Nouakchott on October 19-20, 1979. This meeting launched the Solidarity and Intervention Fund for the Economic Development of the Com- munity with an initial capital subscription of 29 The members are Benin, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. 30 Angola, Botswana, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Seychelles, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia. 31 The members are Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. CFAF 1.5 billion. This Fund would act as a guar- antor of loans contracted by member states. On January 25, 1979 the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and the Bank of Zaire signed an agreement to establish the Central African Clearing House. On October 27, 1979 the BEAC agreed to establish a money market in member countries on February 1, 1980. It was intended that access to this market, in which the BEAC may intervene to establish certain interest rate levels, would initially be limited to banking institutions. The Governing Council of the African Develop- ment Bank (AfDB)32 decided in May 1979 to open the capital of the institution to countries other than the 48 member African states. Two thirds of the enlarged Board of Directors (i.e., 12 out of 18 seats) would be reserved for Africans. Many non-African countries have expressed interest in subscribing. In September 1979 Guinea announced its inten- tion to join the Mano River Union; it was subse- quently announced that its membership would take effect from October 3, 1980. Originally composed of Liberia and Sierra Leone, the Union led to the harmonization of the two countries' tariff structures in mid-1978. In late 1979 the Union received a grant of US$2 million from the EC for the estab- lishment of a Telecommunications and Postal Train- ing Institute. The Common Organization of African and Mauri- t ian States (OCAM)33 held its tenth summit at Cotonou on June 26-27, 1979. An ad hoc commis- sion was created to examine the question of member country subscriptions and the insufficiency of finan- cial resources of OCAM's 16 communal companies. On July 3, 1979 the Gambia River Development Organization (OMVG) held a meeting in Banjul to discuss fur ther the master development plan of the Gambia River Basin and Guinea's forthcoming accession to membership along with The Gambia and Senegal. At a meeting in Maputo in March 1980 the Presi- dents of Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, 32 The members are Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jama- h ir iya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Upper Volta, Zaire, and Zambia. 33 Benin, Central African Republic, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tius, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Mozambique, and Sao Tome arid Principe signed an agreement on economic cooperation. The agree- ment established rules for cooperation in the fields of trade, transport, finance, banking, and insurance. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (ABEDA)-34 signed a cooperation agreement in March 1979 with the West African Economic Community (WAEC ). The agreement covers the exchange of manpower and informa t ion on economic development in the WAEC. In April 1979 the Governors of the Arab Mone- tary Fund (AMF) approved the payment by member countries35 of an additional 25 per cent of their subscriptions by September 1979, a decision that will bring the AMF's paid-up capital to Arab Accounting Dinars 124 million. In the same month, Egypt's membership was suspended in the AMF, the ABEDA, the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries, and the Arab Fund for Eco- nomic and Social Development. On October 5, 1979 the ASEAN Food Security Agreement was signed in New York. This agree- ment established an emergency rice reserve with an initial allocation of 50,000 metric tons. The ASEAN Committee on Trade and Tourism implemented trade preferences on a fu r ther 1,001 items on December 10, 1979, bringing the total to 2,327 items. The revised common external ta r i ff of the Carib- bean Community and the Caribbean Common Mar- ket (CAR ICOM ) 'O >G became effective on Janua ry 1, 1979. On January 20, 1979 the Canada-CARicoM Trade Agreement was signed. Initially to run for five years, the agreement provided for most-favored- nation treatment of mutual trade, promotion of regional programs and industrial cooperation, and the provision by Canada of financial and technical support. On April 1, 1979 the new CARICOM rules of origin came into effect. More stringent than the previous system, the new rules were aimed at increasing the regional content of imported goods. 34 The participants are A lger ia, Bah ra in, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, L ibyan A rab J am a h i r i y a, Mau r i- tan ia, Morocco, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Repub l ic, Tunisia, and United A rab Emirates. 35 The par t ic ipan ts are A lger ia, Bahra in, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, L ibyan A rab J am ah i r iy a, Mauri- tania, Morocco, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian A rab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen A rab Republic, and People's Demo- cratic Republic of Yemen. 36 The members are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Domi- nica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 28 A d ra ft agreement for the transformation of the East Caribbean Currency Authority (ECCA) into a fully-fledged central bank was prepared and cir- culated to ECCA members37 in early 1979. No dead l ine was set for the approval of this project. On January 27, 1979 the Commission of the Andean Pact passed new regulations relating to the Andean Automotive Program with a view to facil- i ta t ing the efficient development of component manu fac tu r ing through increases in scales of pro- duction. Moreover, a joint program to prevent, eradicate, and control coffee rust disease was announced. On April 6, 1979 certain products which were previously selected for industrial pro- gramm ing were transferred to the Program for Com- mercial Liberalization, thereby lowering the appli- cable tar iff rates. On May 28, 1979 the Commis- sion agreed to adopt jo int assistance measures contributing to the solution of problems arising because of the landlocked position of Bolivia. On December 14, 1979 the twenty-eighth meeting of the Commission ended without an agreement on a common external t a r i f f; however, negotiations would continue. The central banks of the members of the Central American Clearing House (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras) and the National Bank of Panama opened lines of credit with the Central Bank of Nicaragua in September 1979. These lines of credit, amounting to nearly US$100 million, were intended to facilitate the importation by Nicaragua of urgently needed goods. In mid-1979 Bolivia and Suriname formally rati- fied their participation in the Treaty of Amazonic Cooperation. Other signatories are Brazil, Colom- bia, Ecuador, Guyana, Peru, and Venezuela. The Treaty is aimed at achieving fu ll cooperation for economic development of the Amazon River Basin. In the course of 1979, several "agreements of com- plementation" w i th in the framework of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA)38 were amplified in terms of country participation, product coverage, and trade concessions. On December 6, 1979 the Executive Committee of LAFTA decided to convene two conferences in 1980 (in late March and in late May) to negotiate a reorganization of LAFTA's mechanisms of integration. :l7 An t igua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nev is -Angu i l la, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. as A rgen t ina, Bolivia, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT TWO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part Two, ind iv idu al surveys of the exchange sys- tems of the member countries of the Fund, in c lud ing three nonme tropo l i tan territories, are given. The exchange system of one other coun t ry, wh ich is not a member of the Fund, is also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1979. For a few countries the surveys inc lude references to s ign i f icant developments that took place early in 1980. The description of an exchange system is not neces- sarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of de f in i t ion and ju r isd ic t ion have not been raised, and an a t tempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the ta r i ff s t ruc tu re and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys inc lude references to such features as import l icens ing, advance deposit require- ments, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incen t ive schemes. S im i lar ly, the section "Changes du r ing 1979" includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on inter- na t ional transac t ions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import ta r i f fs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in d ra f t ing the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more s ign if i- cant changes dur ing 1979. The section on Exchange Rate System takes account of the notifications of exchange arrangements that member countries have furnished to the Fund under Article IV, Section 2(a). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on Decem- ber 31, 1979, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some ind ica t ion is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for work ing purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the requ iremen ts affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other coun tr ies are described. Where a coun try has concluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries w i th which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. 30 Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the m ann er in which the country treats accounts ma in ta ined in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as resident in that country, and the facili- ties and l im i ta t ions attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the n a tu re and operation of the various types are de- scribed. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requ iremen ts are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt f rom the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be given either freely, or restrictively, accord- ing to adm in is t ra t ive decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for pe rm i t t ing payments abroad for current transactions in inv is ib les are described briefly, together with any limi- ta t ions on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, w i th an ou t l ine of the requirements that may be imposed on the hand l ing of proceeds from exports. The expres- sion "exchange receipts must be surrendered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange he has earned against local cur- rency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for th is purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that the exchange be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions gov- e rn ing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the special arrangements or limitations attached to international receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usually dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. Under Gold, there is a summary of the principal pro- visions in the regulations that govern the holding, negoti- ation, and import and export of gold coin and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Afghanistan is the Afghan i. Until May 21, 1979 Afghanistan maintained a multiple exchange rate system with differing rates being quoted by Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank ), the commer- cial banks, and by dealers in the money bazaar. On May 21, 1979 the exchange rate system was unified with a unitary rate fixed by Da Afghanistan Bank. This un i- tary rate is fixed in terms of U.S. dollars and is flexible. On December 31, 1979 Da Afghanistan Bank's buying and selling rates were Af 42.25 and Af 43.25, respec- tively, per US$1. These rates are applied by Da Af- ghanistan Bank and by all other banks to all transactions of both the Government and the private sector. Da Af- ghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect their value relative to the U.S. dollar in international markets and the local bazaar foreign exchange market. Da Afghanistan Bank charges commissions ranging from 0.10 per cent to 0.375 per cent on exchange transactions. A number of transac- tions take place in the bazaar foreign exchange market, where the rates closely follow the unified rates. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies specializ- ing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodi- ties, with the exception that the export of cotton is reserved for four authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agreements J must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements. The proceeds from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible cur- rencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import trans- actions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are prohibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) 1 People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, and U.S.S.R. also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodi- ties to be traded. Most of the trade with bilateral agree- ment countries is carried out on a compensation basis and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton, natu- ral gas, and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of such exports are allocated for servicing of the Government's external debt. The present customs ta r i ff structure was promulgated in June 1974 and has since then been modified in the annu al budgets. Actual tar iff rates, ad valorem and spe- cific, vary considerably. Ad valorem duties are usually between 20 per cent and 35 per cent. Payments for imports through the bank ing system to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collec- tion, or against an under tak ing by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the bank ing system. A deposit of up to 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value is required by banks from private enter- prises upon establishment of a letter of credit. Payments for Invisibles There is an exchange allocation f rom the banks for tourist travel abroad equivalent to US$2,000 a trip. In addition, tourists are permitted to purchase their tickets locally, including tickets for package tours. On applica- tion, foreign exchange is also allocated for business travel, as well as for medical treatment abroad, the amounts being determined by the appropriate authori- ties. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 20,000 for tourist travel, Af 5,000 for business travel, and Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of travel. Export by travelers of foreign currency notes up to US$2,000 or its equivalent is permitted only if the for- eign exchange has been bought from the bank ing system. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 1,000 in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license but export transactions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over ex- ports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries, including payments agreement countries, are received in convertible curren- cies. Receipts from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN mu st be su r rende red. Export taxes are levied on cotton, oilseeds, and ra i s in s, and al! other dried f ru i t s .2 Proceeds from Invisibles Forty per cent of the fo re ign cu r rency salaries of fo re ign employees wo rk ing in the A fghan pub l ic and p r iv a te sectors must be converted in to A fghan i s. Trav- elers en te r ing A fgh an i s t an may b r ing in any amount of A f g h an banknotes. They may also b r ing in any amount in fore ign cu r rency but should declare it when en te r ing the coun t ry if they in tend to take out any res idue when leav ing the country. Capital Foreign inves tment in A f g h a n i s t an requ ires p r ior app roval and is adm in is te red by an Inves tment Comm i t- tee. The Foreign and Domestic P r iva te Inves tment Law of 1353 (issued on J u ly 4, 1974) provides for a n um b er of benefits, wh ich inc lude ( 1) income tax exemp t ion for f o ur years (six years ou ts ide Kabul p r o v i n c e ), beg in- n i ng f rom the date of the first sales of products resu l t ing f rom the new inves tmen t; (2) exemption f rom impo rt du t ies on essential impor ts (m a i n ly of cap i tal goods); ( 3) exemp t ion f rom taxes on dividends for f o ur years a f t er the first d i s t r ibu t ion of d iv idends, but not more than seven years a f t er the approval of the inves tmen t; (4) exemp t ion f rom personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on fore ign loans wh ich cons t i tu te part of an approved inves tmen t; ( 5) exemp t ion f rom export duties, prov ided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) manda tory purchases by government agencies and depar tmen ts of the ir requ iremen ts f rom enterprises established u n d er the law where prices of such products are not more t h an 15 per cent h igher than prices of fore ign supplies. The law provides that fo re ign invest- ment in A fgh an i s t an can on ly take place th rough j o i nt ventures, w i th fore ign pa r t ic ipa t ion not exceeding 49 per cent. It also establishes that an inve s tment approved - Export taxes on ra i s ins apply if prices exceed cer ta in specified l im i ts. From proceeds of exports of raisins an amount of US$50 a ton is cred i ted to a gove rnment account for a price s tab i l iza t ion f u n d. Export proceeds of k a r a k ul are subsidized by the Gove rnment to the ex tent of the d i f fe rence between the un i f ied ra te and a ra te of Af 45 per US$1. There are no o ther export subsidies. by the Inves tment Comm i t tee shall require no f u r t h er license in order to operate in A fghan is tan. Paymen ts of p r inc ipal and interest on loans f rom abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal ob l iga t ion invo lved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and cap i tal may be repatriated after five years at an a n n u al rate not exceeding 20 per cent of the total regis- tered cap i ta l. Gold Res iden ts may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell domes- t i c a l ly gold in any fo rm. Imports of gold are restricted. Expor ts of gold and silver in any fo rm other than jewelry requ i re licenses issued by the Council of M in is ters; such licenses are not no rm a l ly granted except for exports by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry au thor i t ies and indus t r ial users. Commerc ial exports of gold and s i lver jewelry and of other articles con ta in ing m i n or quan t i t ies of gold or s i lver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs du t ies are payable on imports and exports of s i lver in any fo rm unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the mone tary au thor i t ies. Changes during 1979 May 21. The exchange rate system was un i f i ed. A u n i t a ry rate, fixed by Da A fghan i s tan Bank, replaced the fo rm er m u l t i p le exchange rate system. Rates of Da A fgh an i s t an Bank were set at Af 43 buy ing and Af 44 se l l ing, per US$1. These rates were applicable to all t ran sac t ions of both the Gove rnment and the private sector. July 28. The proceeds f rom exports of k a r akul were to be subsidized to the extent of the difference between the p r e v a i l i ng u n i f i ed exchange rate and a rate of Af 45 per US$1. September 23. It was announced that a deduction of US$50 a ton should be made f rom the proceeds of exports of r a i s ins in order to b u i ld up a price stabiliza- t i on f u n d. December 1. The fo re ign exchange allocation for tou r i st travel by A f g h an na t iona ls was raised f rom US$200 to US$2,000 a person a t r ip. 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of A lger ia is the A lg e r i an D in a r. Since J a n u a ry 21, 1974 A lge r ia has followed an independent exchange rate policy. Da i ly b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar, the in t e rv en t ion cu r rency, and o ther spec if ied cu r renc ies 1 are es tab l ished by the Cen t ral Bank of A lger ia on the basis of a fixed re la t ionsh ip between the d i n ar and a composite of currencies. The currencies inc luded in the composite and the ir weights take in to account the re la t ive im p o r t a n ce of paymen t s, i n c l u d i ng cap i tal t r an s a c t ion s, that a re made in these currencies. A m a rg in of DA 0.015 has been established between the b u y i ng and se l l ing rates of the d i n ar in te rms of the U.S. do l l a r, and on December 31, 1979 the Central Bank 's b u y i ng and se l l ing rates were DA 3.7480 and DA 3.7630, respectively, per US$1. An encourage- ment p r em ium is gran ted on the conversion of conve r t i- ble currenc ies repatriated by A lge r ians w o r k i ng abroad. The p r em ium is adjusted so as to en su re that the exchange rate for such rem i t tances is DA 1 = F 1. The fore ign exchange reserves are cen t ra l ized in the Cen t ral Bank; au tho r ized b a n ks mu st c lear t h e ir fo re ign cu r rency position w i th the ir fo re ign corresponden ts at the end of each day bu t, und er ce r ta in cond i t ion s, they are perm i t ted to hold cover for documen ta ry credits ou t- side A lger ia. There are no fo rwa rd exchange f a c i l i t i e s. Administration of Control The M in i s t ry of Finance and the Cen t ral B ank have general ju r i sd ic t ion over exchange control. The Cen tral Bank assists in the fo rmu la t ion of the exchange legisla- t ion and regu la t ions and is responsible for t h e ir app l ica- t ion by the au thor ized banks. A u t h o r i ty over m a ny exchange control procedures has been delegated to three commercial banks and the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i o n. Import and export licenses and global impo rt quotas are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce w i t h in the l im i ts of a general import program. Impo rt and export licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. The Societe Na- t iona le pour la Recherche, la Produc t ion, le T ranspo r t, la Transforma t ion et la Comme rc ia l isa t ion des Hydro- carbures (SoNATRACH ) ,h as a monopoly over impo r ts and domestic sales of petroleum and petroleum p roduc ts, and handles most exports of these commod i t ies. Inves tment of fore ign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in A lge r ia requires approval by a Na t ional Inve s tment Comm i t tee in order to obtain the benefits of the Inves tment Code. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich no paymen ts agreements are in force are made in conve r t ib le cur- 1 A u s t r i an schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Dan ish k ron e r, deu tsche m a rk, French f ranc s, I t a l i an l i re, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde rs, No r- wegian k rone r, pounds s t e r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, and Swiss francs. rencies. Settlements w i th coun tr ies w i th which Algeria has concluded b i la te ral paymen ts agreements 2 are made th rough special accounts under the terms of the agree- men ts. Some of these accounts are denom ina ted in A l g e r i an d in a rs and others in U.S. dollars of account. Nonresident Accounts Most non r e s id ent accoun ts are Foreign Accoun ts in Conve r t ib le D in a rs or I n t e r n al Nonres ident Accounts. There are at present three types of accounts, as follows: Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened w i thout a u t h o r i z a t i on and may be credited w i th paymen ts f rom any c o u n t r y. Ba lances in such accounts opened p r ior to J a n u a ry 1, 1975 by n o n r e s i d e nt phys ical persons of fo r- e ign n a t i o n a l i ty have been released for t r an s f er abroad. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC a c coun t s) may be opened by i n d i v i d u a ls or j u r i d i c al per- sons of fo re ign n a t ion a l i ty. Such accounts may be cred- ited o n ly w i th deposits tha t, und er the regu la t ions app l i- cable when the deposit is made, are free f rom any res t r ic t ions on t r an s f e r. They may not be credited with am o u n ts t h at a re t r a n s f e r a b le to the b i l a t e r al area. They may be debited for p aym en ts to any fore ign coun t ry, for paymen ts in A lge r ia, or for the p rov is ion of fore ign bankno tes wh i ch the account holder in tends to take out of A lger ia. These accounts bear interest and may not show a net debit position. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, w i thout p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i o n, in the name of any physical person r e s id ing in A l g e r i a, but not of A l g e r i an n a t ion a l i ty, who in tends to leave A lge r ia to r e tu rn to the coun t ry of o r i g i n, and also for non res ident nationals. These accounts may be cred i ted f r e e ly w i th an am o u nt equiva- l ent to the ho ld ings on October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; w i th the proceeds f rom sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the f u n ds are paid d i rec t ly by a no ta ry pub l ic; w i th the proceeds of the sale of secu r i t ies t h r o u gh a b a n k; and w i th any o ther paymen t s, up to DA 2,000. The Central Bank may au tho r ize the c r ed i t ing of o ther specific payments. These accoun ts may be debited w i thout pr ior approval for cer- t a in paymen ts in A lge r ia on behalf of the account holder. Ou twa rd t r an s f e rs requ ire ind iv idu al approval. Em i g r a nt wo rke rs may m a in t a in cer ta in accounts in A lge r ia that are fed w i th the proceeds f rom the conver- s ion of c o n v e r t i b le cu r r en c i es (comptes epargne-devises). Depositors receive a p r em i um equ iva len t, in pr inc ip le, to one e igh th of the amoun ts deposited; in practice, the p r em i um is a flexible one en su r ing an effective conver- - A lge r ia m a i n t a i ns paymen ts agreements w i th Albania, Gu inea, Gu inea -B i s sau, and U.S.S.R. Specified noncommerc ial settlements with Morocco and Tun is ia are channe led t h r o u gh a d i r h am account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tun is ian d in a rs at the Central B ank of Tunisia. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA sion rate of DA 1 = F 1. W i thdrawa ls may be made only in Algerian dinars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. Law No. 78-02 of February 11, 1978 gives the Gove rnment a monopoly over foreign trade. All imports are permitted, in principle, in accordance w i th an annual import program. This is implemented ma in ly through global import authorizations (autorisations globales d'im- portation or AG I) granted to public enterprises. Impor ts made "without payment" (sans paiement), i.e., impor ts which do not invo lve compensation of any k ind and are not subject to any specific prohibition, are exempt from all exchange and t rade con trol fo rm a l i t i es when va lued at DA 5,000 or less. The Gove rnmen t 's monopoly over the impor ta t ion of commodities is effected through the Office National de Commerc ia l isa t ion (ONACO ), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OAIC), the Office Na t ional de Commercialisation des P rodu i ts Vitivinicoles (ONCV ), the Societe Na t iona le des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA ), the Societe Na t iona le d'Edition et de D i f fu s ion (SNED ), the Societe Na t iona le de Side- rurgie (SNS), the Societe Na t iona le de Constructions Mecan iques(SoNACOME), SONATRACH, and other s im i l ar organizations. All imports must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, to wh ich the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Unless the Cen tral Bank approves otherwise, advance paymen ts may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import value, whichever is smaller. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all coun tr ies requ ire the approval of the Central Bank. When suppo r t ing docu- ments are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal A dm i n- istration, either freely or up to specified l im i ts for cer- ta in payments such as ( 1) those relating to approved trade transactions and ma r i t ime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educa- tional expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For pay- ments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the gran t ing of exchange must be authorized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Certain public enterprises, which receive special exchange allocations (budget devises), may use these free ly for pay- ments for specified invisibles, inc lud ing transpor ta t ion and other services contracted abroad. The transfer of fam i ly remittances is suspended. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under the programs for technical cooperation or for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries, 34 as follows: 55 per cent for single persons and married persons hav ing their families in Algeria; 75 per cent for persons hav ing the ir families abroad; and 85 per cent for employees of mines and the hydrocarbon sector working in the southern regions. For other workers who have contracts w i th other employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the amounts that may be t ran s fe r red are 35 per cent for single persons and mar- ried persons h a v i ng their f am i l i es in Algeria and 55 per cent for persons hav ing their families abroad. The paymen ts must be transferred once a mon th on the basis of the remunera t ion for the previous month. Per- sons mak ing such transfers are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers. For residents (excluding those who may transfer a cer ta in percentage of their net salary abroad) traveling by air or sea to foreign countries, inc lud ing countries in the fo rmer French Franc Area, other than for medical reasons, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 300 a person a trip (DA 150 for children under 15) and is delivered on presentation of a valid passport and travel vouchers; for overland travel, the allocation is DA 300 a person a calendar semester for adults and DA 150 for children under 15. For those t rave l ing for medical reasons the allowance is DA 800 a person a t r ip and DA 400 for a child under 15. These allocations are not applicable to persons living in border areas. Foreign exchange for private business travel is subject to author- iza t ion by the Central Bank and allocations may not exceed DA 1,500 a trip. Algerian workers who have perm iss ion to emigrate are entitled to an exchange allo- cation upon departure. Em ig rant A lge r ian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may upon return abroad repurchase foreign exchange equivalent to one fifth of the amount sold upon arrival, but not exceeding DA 1,000. P i lg r ims traveling to Saudi Arabia in 1979 obtained Saudi A rab ian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 5,000 a person. The amount of this allowance is fixed for each p i lg r im age and may be furn ished in the fo rm of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by sea or by air. Resident travelers may take out Alge- r ian d i n ar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Non- resident travelers may also re-export any foreign cur- rency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Certain exports, inc lud ing used equipment and machinery, livestock, firearms, ammunition, explo- sives, and certain radio equipment, are prohibited regardless of destination. All other exports may, in principle, be effected freely, without an export license, w i th the exception of exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agreements. Some com- modities may be exported, subject to individual prior approval, on the basis of linked transactions (transac- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tions liees) involving at the same t ime an authorized import transaction. Since the promulgation of Law No. 73-02 of Febru- ary 11, 1978, which conferred upon the Government a monopoly over foreign trade, exports may on ly be effected by public sector entities, unless a waiver is granted for a trans i t ional period on a case-by-case basis. Exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Sales on consignment are subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance, and registration must take place prior to customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immediately af ter collection; the due date of the export contract must be not later than 30 days fol- lowing shipment, except when prior authorization f rom the Central Bank is obtained. Those petroleum com- panies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons calculated on the basis of a contractual price per barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For one petroleum company holding mineral rights, how- ever, there are d ifferent repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. Savings repatriated in the fo rm of con- vertible currencies by Algerians working abroad are eligible for an encouragement premium. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, coin (except gold co in), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar bank- notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender cap- ital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any des- tination are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside ALGERIA Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Central Bank. The Investment Code of September 15, 1966 provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500.000 in the industrial and tourist sectors and for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital. It also establishes that profit remittances on such invest- ments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 mil- lion may be given exclusive rights in a specified geo- graphic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordinance No. 70-6 of Janua ry 16, 1970, unworked gold for indus- trial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Transformation de TOr et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR ). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and w i th in the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR, under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Changes during 1979 March 4. The State Office for Marketing and Development of Technologies ( SON AC AT) was given the monopoly for the import of several products, including electric razors, steam boilers and auxiliary appliances for such boilers, and other specified nonelectric appli- ances for nonindustrial use and their spare parts. July 21. Law No. 79-07 introduced a new customs code. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of A rgen t ina is the A rg en t ine Peso. The au tho r i t ies announce in advance a schedule of d a i ly buy ing exchange rates for transfers .1 On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were $a 1,615 and $a 1,622, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies 2 are also off ic ia l ly quoted, w i th da i ly quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar on markets abroad. Exchange trans- actions are subject to a tax of 0.6 per cent on purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange operations are permitted in the private sector with ma tu r i t ies of up to 360 days and at rates agreed by buyers and sellers. Argen t ina fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transac t ions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose. These authorized entities inc lude banks, exchange agencies exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of ins t i tu t ion may be subject to separate regulation. Prescription of Currency Virtually all payments between Argen t ina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecua- dor, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts ma in ta ined by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agreements w i th in the frame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA ). Trans- actions with other countries must be settled in converti- ble currencies. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonres iden t, provided that the accounts are credited w i th remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argen- tina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of import and exchange licensing. Payments may be made in any convertible currency. 1 The rules governing the mon th ly rates of depreciation of the exchange rate for 1980 were announced on October 1, 1979. a Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk. Finnish m a rkk a a, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 36 However, certain import suspensions are in effect. All imports by the private or public sector valued at more than US$500 require a sworn Declaration of Need to Impo rt (Declaration Jurada de Necesidad de Importa- tion) submitted by the importer to the National Import Board. Registration of the declaration is automatic. Furthermore, public sector imports require approval by the Cen t ral Bank w i th regard to debt. Imports of mono- ch roma t ic television sets are suspended. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the fo l low ing taxes: a consular fee of 3 per cent payable no rma l ly in foreign currency on most import invoices; a s ta t is t ical tax of 3 per cent applicable to all imports; a s tamp d u ty of 0.6 per cent; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest products; selective in te rnal taxes ranging f rom 5 per cent to 22 per cent; and a tax of 12 per cent on ma r i t ime freight, unless the imports involved are transported in Argentine vessels. Imports may be f u l ly paid for in cash. For capital goods, advance payment of up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue is permitted. The liabilities incurred may be pa r t ia l ly or en t ire ly discharged prior to the originally agreed deadlines, regardless of the instrument used. Items not considered as capital goods may have up to 180 days' financing, but this l im i ta t ion does not apply in the case of suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Sales of fore ign exchange without a written declaration of purpose are permitted up to US$20,000. There are no l im i ts with respect to purchases of for- eign currency by Argentine residents for travel purposes. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic bank- notes and coin, inc lud ing gold coin and "good delivery" gold bars. Exports and Export Proceeds A number of exports are prohibited or restricted. M i n im um export prices (reference prices) are estab- lished for many agricultural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The f u ll f.o.b. proceeds from all exports must be repatriated and surrendered; the pro- ceeds must not be less than the reference price or, if there is no reference price, the f.o.b. value declared on the shipping permit. Proceeds may be received in any con- vertible currency. The proceeds from traditional exports must be surrendered w i th in 180 days of shipment. No such l im it exists for the proceeds from promoted exports (listed in Central Bank Circular R.C. 704). Certain non t rad i t ional exports are eligible for rebates (reintegro and reembolso). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Many products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales va lue or on reference prices. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise, or within the fol- lowing 31 days when there is a bank guaran tee of pay- ment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on maritime freight costs. Certain other taxes are also levied on specific exports. These include a 2 per cent tax on exports of agr icu l tural and livestock products, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Ins t i tu te for Agricultural and Livestock Technology, and a tax of 1 per cent or 2.5 per cent, depending on the product, levied on grain exports and earmarked for the Na t ional Gra in Board. Many exports, par t icu lar ly non trad i t ional exports, are eligible for export incentives of various kinds. The Cen- tral Bank has established a system of special f inanc ing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting exports of certain goods and ser- vices.3 Certain products, mostly non trad i t ional exports, may be shipped "on consignment" for 360 days; if not sold w i th in that period, the goods must be returned to Argentina. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles need not be sur- rendered. Travelers may b r ing in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coin, as well as gold coin and "good delivery" gold bars. Capital Proceeds from foreign loans must be sold in the exchange market. In general, there are no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents, although residents may not borrow abroad for less than one year. Outward capital transfers are restricted. For- eign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 25, 1975. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 21382 of August 13, 1976) and its implementing decree (Decree No. 283 of February 4, 1977) govern all aspects of investments of foreign capital. Investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currency; new or used cap- ital goods and their spare parts and accessories; profits and capital in Argentine pesos belonging to fore ign investors, provided that those pesos are transferable abroad; capitalization of external credits in freely con- vertible foreign currency; intangible assets (bienes inma- teriales)', and any other form acceptable to the imple- menting authority or covered by a special regime or a promotion regime. For approval purposes investments are classified in to three categories, as follows: 3 The Argentine Export Credit Insurance Company provides credit insurance against commercial and ordinary risks and also coverage for extraordinary risks, for exports of capital goods, consumer durables, and certain other consumer goods. ARGENTINA ( 1) Subject to prior approval by the National Execu- tive are (a) investments in the defense and national security sectors, in public services in the field of health care, the postal system, electricity, energy, gas, transpor- ta t ion, and telecommunications, and in radio transmit- ters, television stations, newspapers, periodicals and magazines, educa t ion, banks, insurance, and financial in s t i tu t ion s; (b) the t ran s fer of capital to an existing local firm, when this implies its conversion into a "domes- tic firm w i th foreign capital"; (c) investments whose object is the acquisition of participations in the capital of ex i s t ing local firms that belong to national investors (excep t iona l ly, and when a clear benefit to the national economy is foreseen); and (d) investments in any sector when they are effected in the form of used capital goods, when special or promotional benefits are requested that can be granted on ly by the Na t ional Executive, when the amount of the investment exceeds US$5 million or its e q u i v a l e nt in other foreign currencies, and when the investor is a foreign state or a foreign ju r id i c al person und er public law. (2) No pr ior approval is required for (a) the rein- vestment of profits f rom investments of properly reg- istered fore ign capital in the firms where the profits arise, provided that this does not result in the conversion of the receiving firm in to a "domestic firm with foreign capital"; and (b) new investments in freely convertible fore ign currency, provided that they do not exceed in any single year 10 per cent of the registered foreign capital of the receiving firm, that they are intended to foster the activities in which it is already engaged, and that they do not convert the firm into a "domestic firm w i th fo re ign capital." (3) All other fore ign investments are subject to prior approval by the implementing authority, which must give its decision w i th in 120 days from the date on which the investment proposal is submitted. Foreign investments existing prior to the entry into force of the Foreign Investment Law are governed by its provisions, which include a special regime for their inscr ip t ion and def in i t ive recognition. Existing and new fore ign investments, as well as all capital movements re la t ing thereto, may be recorded in the Register of For- eign Investments, which is kept by the Central Bank. Registered foreign investments may generally be repa- tr ia ted three years af ter en try in to Argen t ina, unless a longer period was fixed when the investment was approved. The right to t rans fer profits and to repatriate cap i tal related to proper ly registered investments can be suspended on ly by the Na t ional Executive. In that event, registered foreign investors are entitled to receive, for the rem i t tance of profits abroad, the equivalent of the sum to be transferred in external public debt securities denominated in foreign currency, at the rate of interest ru l ing in the in terna t ional market, against provision of the equivalent in Argentine pesos. Profits in money or in k ind on registered foreign cap- 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA ital are subject to a special tax when they exceed 12 per cent of registered capital. This tax is 15 per cent on remitted profits of more than 12 per cent and up to 15 per cent of registered capital, 20 per cent for those of more than 15 per cent and up to 20 per cent of regis- tered capital, and 25 per cent for those of more than 20 per cent of registered capital. The extension of domestic credit to "domestic firms with foreign capital" is subject to special provisions, as set forth in Law No. 21382 (Article 17) and Decree No. 283/77 (Article 71). Gold Residents may hold gold coin and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coin or "good delivery" bars among themselves or with customers in Argentina or abroad. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a sta- tistical duty of 0.6 per cent, and those by other users are subject in addition to sales tax. Changes during 1979 January 1. In accordance with a schedule of daily exchange rates issued on December 21, 1978, the peso would be depreciated from $a 1,000 per US$1 (buy ing) on December 31, 1978 to $a 1,418 per US$1 (buy ing) on August 31, 1979. January 1. The 1979-84 tariff reform program under Resolution No. 1634/78 of the Ministry of Economy came into effect. Under the program, which would apply to all commodities except those covered under the program for imports of vehicles, imports were divided into seven broad categories. Within each cate- gory, three different scales of quarterly tar iff reductions would apply, depending on the tariff rate applicable at the beginning of 1979. Tariffs for goods not produced domestically would remain at 10 per cent throughout the program period, but tariffs for all other goods would be reduced by up to 5 percentage points in 1979, 8 per- centage points in 1980 and 1981, and 14 percentage points in 1982 and 1983. By the end of 1983, the range of import tariffs would be reduced to 10-40 per cent, compared with 10-85 per cent at the beg inn ing of 1979. January 1. The ad hoc program of tariff reductions under Resolution No. 6 of the Ministry of Economy came into effect. These reductions would be applied to imports whose domestic substitutes increased in price, for reasons not related to input costs, at a rate in excess of the percentage of nominal exchange rate depreciation, using December 15, 1978 as the base date. Tar iffs would be reduced by the amount by which domestic product prices exceed the norm. Several sets of tariff reductions under this program were announced in the course of 1979. 38 January 31. Law No. 21932 relating to imports of vehicles took effect. This law allowed the importation of finished vehicles for the first time in 20 years. More- over, import tar iffs on passenger vehicles, certain chassis w i th motors, and certain vehicle bodies would be low- ered from the present 95 per cent ad valorem to 85 per cent in 1980, 75 per cent in 1981, and 55 per cent in 1982. Official minimum f.o.b. import prices were set at US$4 a cubic centimeter of engine displacement for passenger vehicles and at US$7 a kilogram of vehicle weight for commercial vehicles; these base prices would be raised by 15 per cent to calculate the official mini- mum c.i.f. import price. Base prices for parts would range between US$0.91 a kilogram (for iron and lam- inated steel items) and US$15.33 a kilogram (for dash- board items). The foreign input content allowance for domestic vehicle production also was raised, depending on the category of the vehicle. For passenger cars and trans- port vehicles weighing up to 1,500 kilograms (cate- gory A), the allowance would be raised from the present 4 per cent to 8 per cent by 1980, 10 per cent by 1981, and 12 per cent by 1982. For nonpassenger vehicles weighing up to 1,500 kilograms (category B), the allowance would rise from 7 per cent to 10 per cent by 1980, 14 per cent by 1981, and 18 per cent by 1982. For vehicles weighing more than 1,500 kilograms (cate- gory C ), the allowance would rise from 10 per cent to 15 per cent by 1980, 20 per cent by 1981, and 25 per cent by 1982. These percentages would apply to total vehicle production within each category, thereby allow- ing for some flexibility to vary the foreign input content of the range of models. March 2. Resolution No. 250/79 of the Ministry of Economy added 23 products to the list of exports des- tined to markets considered nontraditional for such exports. Under Decree No. 2863/72, exports of prod- ucts included in the list were eligible for a 5 per cent additional rebate (reembolso adicional). March 5. Central Bank Circular No. R.C. 824 raised the l im it on maturities for operations in the forward exchange market from 180 days to 360 days. March 16. Decree No. P.E. 643/79 set out rules and procedures to be followed in antidumping cases. April 9. Central Bank Circular No. R.C. 832 extended the da i ly schedule of exchange rates to the end of 1979. According to this schedule, the peso would be depre- ciated f rom $a 1,418 per US$1 (buy ing) on August 31 to $a 1,615 per US$1 ( b u y i n g) on December 31. April 17. Resolution No. 367/79 of the Ministry of Economy exempted f rom import ta r i f fs certain fertilizers not produced locally. April 25. Resolution No. 493/79 of the Ministry of Economy lowered import tar iffs of some 1,221 capital equipment items. May 21. Central Bank Circular No. R.G. 836- R.F. 710 announced that the exchange proceeds of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exports effected under the arrangements instituted by Decree No. 637 of March 6, 1979 would be handled in accordance with the general rules in effect on the date of the sale abroad. The decree permitted the export "on consignment" of certain specified goods, subject to the requirement that they be sold abroad within 360 days from the date of shipment; if not sold within that period, the goods would be returned to Argentina. An addi- tional period of 60 days was allowed for that purpose only. May 31. Resolution No. 639/79 of the Ministry of Economy extended the suspension of imports of mono- chromatic television sets un t il January 31, 1980. June 1. Resolution No. 1193/79 of the State Secre- tariat of Commerce and International Economic Nego- tiations exempted imports valued at US$500 or less (excluding consular fees) from the requirement to file a Declaration of Need to Import. June 19. Resolution No. 20684/79 of the National Grain Board announced a suspension of wheat and wheat flour exports until November 1979 to assure ade- quate domestic supplies. June 29. Tariffs on imports of copper ore were eliminated. July 12. It was announced that the tariff on imports of color television sets was reduced from 73 per cent to 60 per cent until the end of 1980; it would be reduced to 55 per cent in 1981 and would progressively decline to 35 per cent by January 1, 1984. July 18. The importation of used vehicles was pro- hibited except if effected by returning Argentine citizens who had spent at least one year abroad, by returning government officials who had been assigned abroad, by foreign citizens on official missions to Argentina, by foreigners resident in Argentina, or if specially pur- chased through the National Customs Administration. August 1. Resolution No. 20756/79 of the National Grain Board authorized the resumption of wheat flour exports at 10,000 tons a month for the period August-November 1979. August 24. Resolution No. 909/79 of the Ministry of Economy lifted the ban on export of cattle hides with effect from October 1, 1979 and reduced the applicable export duties from 25 per cent to 20 per cent. September 17. Resolution No. 1027/79 of the Min- istry of Economy extended until 4he end of September ARGENTINA 1980 the existing exemption from tariffs of cement imports. A f ter September 1980 a rate of 10 per cent would be applied. September 19. Central Bank Circular No. R.C. 847 permitted financial institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies to buy and sell gold in the form of coin or in "good delivery" bars among themselves or w i th customers in Argentina or abroad. Gold exports no longer required the prior approval of the Central Bank. September 24. The regulations concerning authoriza- tion of commercial and investment banks to effect operations in foreign currency were reissued with some amendments (Central Bank Circular No. R.F. 863- R.C. 849). October 1. The devaluation schedule of the peso against the U.S. dollar was set at 2.8 per cent for January 1980, to be reduced by 0.2 per cent each month thereafter (i.e., in February 1980 the peso would be devalued by 2.6 per cent). October 1. Resolution No. 928/79 of the Ministry of Economy reduced export duties on various types of wool from 5 per cent to zero. November 1. A mining promotion law was passed. It provided automatic tax benefits on exploration; other incentives would be granted on a case-by-case basis. Among the incentives offered were accelerated amorti- zation, deferred income tax and capital tax payments for up to 5 years, exemption for up to 15 years on stamp tax payments, and tariff and custom duty exemp- tion on the importation of certain capital goods. November 26. Resolution No. 1163/79 of the Min- istry of Economy extended until December 31, 1980 the application of zero tariffs on imports of certain capital goods and semifinished goods not manufactured in Argentina. December 17. Central Bank Circular No. R.C. 860 permitted entities that were authorized to deal in foreign exchange to effect directly, through the exchange mar- ket, transfers relating to cover operations on cereal and oilseed fu tures markets abroad. December 26. Central Bank Circular No. R.F. 957- R.C. 866 permitted banks to obtain loans abroad, sub- ject to prior Central Bank authorization. Category C banks continued to be exempted from the prior author- ization requirement. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Aus tra l ia is the Australian Dollar.1 The exchange rate of the Au s t ra l ian do l lar is determined by re fe rence to a trade-we igh ted index of currencies. The level of the exchange rate in relation to the trade- weighted index is kept under review and is changed when assessment of all relevant economic factors indi- cates a need for movement of the rate. A mid-rate for the Au s t ra l ian dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar (the in te rven t ion cu r rency) is announced each day by the Reserve Bank of Aus tra l ia. Official limits are set at or w i th in which banks are to effect spot transactions with the public in U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1979 the au tho r i t ies set a middle ra te for the U.S. dollar of $A 1 = US$1.1055 and the official l im i ts were US$1.1079 and US$1.1031 for spot transactions. Exchange rates for other currencies are not officially posted, and banks are free to determine their own spot rates for all other currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The t rad ing banks, in con junc t ion with the Reserve Bank, provide forward exchange cover to residents for trade transactions and some trade-related transactions in invisibles. In respect of this facility, the Reserve Bank provides forward cover to the t rad ing banks in U.S. dollars. In addition, there is a foreign currency hedge market in which the trad ing banks and some merchant banks match the currency hedge requ i remen ts of their customers at market determined rates. Forward cover on this market can be arranged for any type of current or capital transaction and may be obtained for any currency subject to market availability. The mar- ket is restricted to Australian residents and no arbitrage is perm i t ted between the Australian and international markets. All settlements are effected in Aus tra l ian dollars. Australia fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Ar t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- m en t, as from Ju ly 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is de term ined by the Govern- ment w i th the advice of the Department of the Treasury and of the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank administers the exchange control in accordance with the B a n k i ng (Foreign Exchange) Regulations und er the B ank ing Act, 1959 and delegates cons iderab le d iscre t ionary powers to the t rad ing banks authorized to hand le fo re ign exchange transactions. Import and export controls are adm in is tered by the Department of Business and Con- sumer A f fa i r s. Other departments are responsible for some policy aspects of controls on impor ts and exports. Prescription of Currency Where imports are invoiced in Australian dollars, paymen ts may be made in Australian currency through the account of an overseas bank with a bank in Australia, or in any fore ign currency;2 if imports are invoiced in fo re ign currency, payment must be made in foreign cu r rency. Proceeds from exports may be received in A u s t r a l i an currency f rom an account of an overseas bank w i th a bank in Australia, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of nonresidents are sub- ject to approva l, which is granted in the same circum- stances and subject to the same conditions as if a t r a n s f er to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on app l ica t ion, between accounts of nonresidents, provided that for amoun ts of $A 250,000 or more any necessary Reserve Bank approval has been issued for the under- l y i ng t ransac t ion. The balance on an account held by any non res ident may be withdrawn in convertible cur- rency. There are no blocked accounts. Nonresidents are gene ra l ly not permitted to borrow in Australia. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported w i thout import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on paymen ts for imports. The l a t t er no rm a l ly must be made not earlier than the da te of sh ipment or one month before the arrival of the goods in Aus tra l ia, and not later than six months a f t er the a r r iv al of the goods in Australia; consent to longer periods is given only where it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Import res t r ic t ions are imposed for a number of reasons, a l though not for exchange control purposes. Import res t r ic t ions are ma in ta ined on certain goods, mainly for reasons of i n d u s t ry assistance, health, commun i ty pro- tec t ion, or security, or to sustain quality standards. Payments for Invisibles All p aym en ts for invisibles are subject to exchange con tro l, but they are not restricted. The control operates p r im a r i ly to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; in add i t ion, rem i t tances to the New Hebrides are subject to a screen ing procedure to ensure that no tax minimiza- t ion t ransac t ions are involved. Applications for outward t r an s f e rs in connection with current invisibles are nor- m a l ly dea lt w i th immed ia te ly by banks; forms do not g e n e r a l ly have to be filled out for amounts up to $A 2,000, and banks generally need not report these sma l ler transfers to the Reserve Bank. There is no 1 The Aus tra l ian dollar also circulates in a number of other coun- tries, inc lud ing K ir iba t i, Nau ru, New Hebrides, and Tuvalu. 2 Foreign currencies are denned as all currencies other than the Aus t ra l ian dollar. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prescribed limit on travel fund s. Banks may approve for each person up to $A 4,000 for any one journey plus, for journeys of more than two months, $A 1,500 for each additional mon th up to a total of $A 10,000 a person; additional amoun ts may be approved by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses. S im i la r ly, no specific l im i ts are placed on remittances for f am i ly maintenance and g if ts, but beyond certain amoun t s, app l ica t ions must be referred to the exchange control au thor i t ies; such app l ica t ions are treated liberally. Payment to overseas suppliers of services must be made no later th an six mon ths a f ter the date when it is con trac tua l ly due; consent to longer de fe rment is given only where it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Dividends and interest due to overseas residents must be paid w i th in one mon th of the date on which they become payable. Foreign exchange is not norma l ly provided to enable residents to take out personal l i fe insurance w i th fore ign insurers. Travelers may take out, without special authorization, up to $A 250 in Australian currency notes plus $A 5 in Aus t ra l ian coin. Travelers who are not residents of Aus tra l ia may take out any amount in fore ign bank- notes w i th in six months of en t ry, prov ided that they b rought the notes into Australia. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except in respect of goods covered by the Customs (Prohibited Expor ts) Regulations. The obligation to account for export pro- ceeds rests directly on the exporter. Proceeds of exports of all commodities, unless otherwise authorized, must be received in Australia in a currency and w i th in a period approved by the Reserve Bank. The approved period is defined as being as soon as practicable a f ter the date on which payment is made to the exporter, and not later than six months af ter exportation nor earlier than one mon th before exportation. Longer periods are allowed only where the payment arrangements are in accordance with normal commercial practice. Under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, the export of specified goods may be prohibited absolutely or may be permitted subject to prescribed conditions. Export controls app ly to certain raw or semiprocessed minerals, metals, fue ls and petroleum products, the f u n d am e n t al objective being the protection of na t ional interests. In particular, the controls are used ( 1) to ensure that f a ir and reasonable market prices are obtained; (2) to ensure that adequate supplies of raw materials are ava i lab le to domestic indu s t ry; ( 3) to meet in te rna t ional and strategic obligations; and (4) in rela- tion to u r a n i um and nuc lear materials, to ensure that the Government's nuclear safeguards and physical protection requirements on exports are met. As a ma t ter of policy, the Government leaves negotiations to the commercial interests involved and does not use its export control AUSTRALIA powers to in te r fe re with normal commercial contracts, unless the outcome of such negotiations is unreasonable and against the na t ional interest. Controls are available to fac i l i ta te the observance of Australia's obligations und er i n t e r n a t i o n al commodity agreements, to comple- m ent order ly ma rke t ing arrangements under Australian leg is la t ion, and to provide that domestic needs for cer- ta in ag r icu l tu ral i n p u ts are satisfied ahead of export demands. There are provisions for government control over the export of defense material. Controls also exist over exports of Aus tra l ian-reg is tered ships. These con- t ro ls are exercised to ensure that an adequate fleet of vessels rema ins ava i lab le for local purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Ea rn ings of invisibles in foreign currencies may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes for t ravel expend i ture. Capital All t rans fe rs of capital from Australia require approva l. Lending overseas by residents is normally not pe rm i t ted other than in association with direct inve s tmen t s. Proposals for direct investment overseas are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transfers abroad for direct investment involving the export of a significant mea su re of Au s t ra l ian managerial or technical skills are read i ly approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of inves tment which promote Australian exports or protect ex is t ing Aus t ra l ian investments abroad. Approval is no rma l ly gran ted for the repa tr ia t ion of cap i tal by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are g iven. Foreign securities owned by Australian resi- den ts need not be surrendered; approval is given to residents to reinvest the sales proceeds from foreign securities for t h e ir own account in other foreign securities, but they are not normally permitted to trade among themselves. The export of securities and certain t ran sac t ions in fo re ign securities are subject to approval. App l i c a t ions by resident individuals for portfolio-type i n v e s tm e nt abroad in amounts up to $A 10,000 in any 12 -mon th period no rma l ly are read i ly approved; institu- t i o n al investors and public companies can expect to receive permission to make investments abroad of up to $A 1 m i l l i on in any 12-month period. Applications for inve s tmen ts in larger amounts may be approved in special c i rcums tances. Eligible investments include stocks and shares and investments in real estate; thsy do not in c lude inves tmen ts in loans or other fixed-interest securities. When exchange control approval is being sough t, inve s tment in and other transactions of a capital n a tu re w i th coun t r ies designated for tax screening pur- poses :} requ ire a tax clearance certificate f rom the Com- missioner of Taxation. 3 These are listed as Bahamas, Bermuda, British Channel Islands, Br i t ish V i rg in Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Grenada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Luxembou rg, N au ru, Ne ther lands Antilles, New Hebrides, Panama, Solomon Islands, Sw i tzer land, and Tonga. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Approval is required for residents to borrow Austra- lian or foreign currency from any nonresident, or to incur a liability to a nonresident other than in cases associated with the purchase of goods. In addition, residents are required to obtain approval to draw, issue, or negotiate any bill of exchange or promissory note, to enter into contracts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that actual or con- tingent rights to payments or any other valuable con- sideration or services are created in favor of any non- resident, or to allot or transfer securities to or register securities in the name of any nonresident. Guarantees in Australian or foreign currency by or on behalf of Australian residents are authorized where the under- lying transactions conform to exchange control policy. Australian banks are required to cite specific Reserve Bank approval for all inward capital remittances of $A 250,000 or more. Inward equity investment requires exchange control approval. A distinction is made between exchange control obligations and foreign investment policy obligations. The Government's policy on foreign investment is basically one of encouragement because of the contri- bution foreign investment has made, and is expected to make, to the development of Australia's industries and resources. The Government is advised on individual proposals and on foreign investment matters generally by the Foreign Investment Review Board. Certain foreign investment proposals are examined to ensure that they harmonize with Australia's interests. The foreign investment policy obligations apply to certain categories of foreign investment whether or not exchange control approval is required to transfer funds into Australia to finance such investment. The examination procedures recognize the need to avoid unnecessary interference with normal commercial processes. The types of proposals subject to examination are (1) pro- posals falling within the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act, including any acquisition or issue of shares which would result in or increase a substantial foreign interest in an Australian company, even where there is no change of control; (2) all proposals to establish a new business or project, irrespective of size, in industries subject to special restrictions, namely, finance, insurance, the com- munications media, civil aviation, uranium and activities relating to uranium; (3) direct investments by foreign governments (excluding investments related to their official representation); (4) other proposals to establish new businesses where the total amount of the invest- ment is $A 5 million or more (including diversification into activities not previously undertaken directly in Australia and new projects in mining or other na tural resource indus t r ies ); and (5) proposals to acquire real estate valued at $A 250,000 or more. Each proposal is considered on its merits to assess whether it would produce net economic benefits in rela- tion to such matters as competition and efficiency, the 42 introduction of new technology or managerial or work force skills, improvements in the industrial or com- mercial structure of the economy, and access to new export markets. If the proposal is judged on the basis of these criteria to be in accord with the national interest, it is considered against other criteria such as the level of Australian equity participation, management, and control following participation, and conformity of the proposal with other government policies. There are specific guidelines concerning Australian equity participation in proposals for investment in the natural resources sector. A proposed project for the mining and production of uranium should have a mini- mum of 75 per cent Australian equity and it should be Australian controlled. Only in cases where 75 per cent Australian equity is clearly unobtainable will alter- native proposals be considered. In such cases it needs to be demonstrated that 75 per cent Australian equity is unavailable, that the project would be of significant economic benefit to Australia, that there would be at least 50 per cent Australian equity, and Australians would have the major role in determining the policy of the project. Where projects do not have 75 per cent Australian equity and control, arrangements may be required to increase the level of Australian participation over an agreed period. For other projects in the natural resources sector, the goal is 50 per cent Australian equity with at least 50 per cent of the voting strength of the Board held by Australian interests. However, projects may be approved with less than 50 p^r cent Australian equity, provided they are not otherwise contrary to the national interest and Australian equity is not available on reasonable terms and conditions. In this event, the Government seeks, as appropriate, satisfactory arrangements for Australian equity to be increased to at least 50 per cent w i th in an agreed period. A framework and an incentive have been established for the "naturalization" of foreign-owned companies that have significant Australian shareholdings. Under the provisions, a company may be granted naturalized status (if it is at least 51 per cent Australian owned and has a majority of Australian citizens on its Board) or naturalizing status (if it has at least 25 per cent Austra- lian equity, a majority of Australian citizens on its Board, and it makes a public commitment to the Govern- ment to increase its Australian equity to 51 per cent). A naturalizing company is given credit for achieving 51 per cent Aus tra l ian ownership. Accordingly, either a naturalizing company or a naturalized company may undertake new projects in the natural resources sector, excluding uran ium, on its own, or in any combination with other companies (provided the "mix" meets the 50 per cent Australian equity and control guidelines), without first seeking approval from the Government. The naturalization arrangements do not affect a com- pany's position under the provisions of the Foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Takeovers Act. Also, the naturalization arrangements do not apply to investment in new projects in the areas of uranium, finance, insurance, the communications media, or civil aviation, where special restrictions apply. Foreign-controlled companies incorporated in Aus- tralia, or operating in Australia as locally registered foreign companies, may raise funds for their local requirements in the Australian capital market. Such foreign companies proposing to borrow locally are invited to consider alternative sources of financing, including the raising of local equity by means of new share issues or other placements. Gold There are no restrictions on residents owning, buying, or selling gold and gold coin in Australia. Residents may export and import gold, subject to normal exchange control and customs procedures. Changes during 1979 January 1. Temporary tariff quota restrictions on vises were extended to June 30, 1979 with a percentage factor of 28.9 per cent being applied over this period. January 1. Import licensing requirements on imports of files and rasps were abolished. The 12.5 per cent additional duty was also abolished, so that such imports would be subject to customs duty at the basic rate of 30 per cent. January 10. A 25 per cent preferential tariff was im- posed on imports of writing, printing, and other inks. January 15. Exchange control requirements were relaxed in respect of the remittance to Australia of net earnings from direct investments overseas. Earnings from direct investment might be retained overseas for financing increased working capital and for firmly planned future expansion without specific prior approval from the Reserve Bank. Specific prior approval would be required where the earnings were to be retained for other than the above purposes or where investment was contemplated in a country for which a tax clearance certificate was necessary. The Reserve Bank was to be informed annually of any newly established ventures or the purchase of companies or shares in joint ventures by overseas subsidiaries of Australian firms. February 22. The temporary additional duty and tariff quota on imports of brandy was extended for six months beyond its expiry date of Febuary 21. March 1. Annual quotas on wool and wool blend fabrics were introduced. March 7. The surcharge on imports of fork l ift trucks with a load capacity of 1,500-4,000 kilograms was reduced to $A 1,500. It would be fu r ther reduced to $A750 from March 7, 1980. After January 1, 1981 only the basic 30 per cent customs du ty would be pay- able on such items. March 8. The Government announced steps to reduce quota trading, the practice whereby a quota holder would play no part in an import transaction other than allowing AUSTRALIA another party to use his quota for a fee or other consid- eration. April 5. It was announced that the temporary addi- tional duty of 15 per cent on radial passenger car tires and all truck and bus tires was to remain in effect un t il December 31, 1979 after which date duties would be reduced from 35 per cent on January 1, 1980 to 25 per cent on January 1, 1982. April 12. Duties on nuts, bolts, and screws were reduced to 25 per cent. Iron and steel screw hooks and screw rings, certain cotters, and cotter pins were made duty free. The temporary duty on wood screens was discontinued. April 13. A variable tar iff was applied to imports of orange juice. April 15. Australia agreed to hold tariffs on 91 items at existing levels as part of the Multilateral Trade Nego- tiations under the auspices of the GATT. May 27. It was announced that with effect from Jan- uary 1, 1981 all imports of whale products and goods containing them would be prohibited. May 21. Quota allocations were announced for foot- wear and foundation garments for the period July 1- December 31, 1979. In addition, importers of footwear were authorized to use up to 15 per cent of their quota for footwear with leather uppers to import footwear w i th nonleather uppers. May 23. The duty on injection moulding machines was reduced from 55 per cent to 15 per cent. June 6. It was announced that duty of 235 per cent would apply to interrelated products of the acetyls complex and for oxo-alcohols, phthalic anhydride, and plasticizers. June 6. Tariff quota restrictions on imports of vises were removed and a 230 per cent general and preferen- tial tar iff was imposed. June 10. It was announced that the Government had re-examined the guidelines on foreign participation in new projects in the uran ium mining sector and had decided that the policy of 75 per cent Australian owner- ship and control was realistic. However, it considered that inflexible applications of the policy might result in the rejection of worthwhile projects and, therefore, provisions were introduced to provide some degree of flexibility, while retaining the basic objective of 75 per cent Australian equity and control. June 10. The final global import quota for passenger motor vehicles for 1979 was set at 93,000 vehicles. June 11. A foreign currency hedge market was opened with 14 banks including 7 major trading banks partici- pating. The market was restricted to Australian residents and no arbitrage was permitted between the Australian and in te rna t ional markets. The market's objective was to meet demand by bank customers to cover foreign exchange risks. Hedge market transactions might be completed in any currency, subject to market availability. All types of transac t ions whether of a current or capital 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA na ture could be covered and there were no restrictions on the terms of the hedging contract. June 28. Quota levels on imports of iron and steel sheets and plates were increased by 7.7 per cent for the quota year beginning July 1, 1979. July 1. A 2 per cent ad valorem customs revenue duty was imposed on most goods that were previously imported duty free, provided this was in conformity with international commitments. July 6. It was announced that tariff quotas on endless- chain hand-operated pulley tackle and hoists would be discontinued and duties on these goods would be phased down to 25 per cent over three years. July 10. It was announced that the Government planned to issue a collectors' gold coin and that it also had under consideration the possible issue of a "bullion"- type gold coin containing one ounce of fine gold. July 13. Duties on most travel goods, briefcases, etc., were reduced to 30 per cent by July 1, 1980. August 21.lt was announced that duties on most mis- cellaneous industrial machinery would remain at the minimum rates. Most remaining items would be subject to 15 per cent duty and duties on a small range of items currently liable for duties ranging from 17-25 per cent would be reduced to 15 per cent over five years. August 23. The Government announced its response to the report of the Study Group on Structural Adjust- ment. As part of that response, it intended to seek advice from the Industries Assistance Commission on the gen- eral approach that it would adopt in pursuing its policy of gradual reductions in long-term protection, following the completion of the review of remaining tar iffs at the end of 1981. September 26. It was announced that U.K. preferences on some 513 tar iff items would be removed with effect from November 12 and general rates of duty would become payable. The majority of items came under the general headings of textiles, apparel, and footwear. It was announced subsequently that implementation of this measure would be deferred until January 1, 1980. October 25. Quan t i ta t ive import restrictions on passen- ger motor vehicles were set at 95,000 vehicles for 1980. This quo ta level was designed to reserve 80 per cent of the passenger motor vehicle market for local producers. November 9. The excise rate on brandy was reduced with an equivalent reduction in the rate of duty on brandy. Tariff quotas and additional temporary duties, which had been applied to imported brandy since August 1977, were removed. December 24. Sanctions against Rhodesia were removed. 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Without assuming any formal obligations in this respect, the authorities aim at staying close to either side of the cross parities for the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS). Forward premiums and discounts are, in principle, left to the interplay of market forces. On December 31, 1979 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 12.381 and S 12.481, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions are effected through Aus- trian banks authorized to implement the exchange con- trol regulations. The customs authorities issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the relevant ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) or the Federal Ministry of Agricul- ture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between "multilateral mem- ber countries" (IMF or OECD members with which settlements take place in convertible currencies) and "multilateral nonmember countries" (other countries with which settlements are made in convertible cur- rencies). Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonresidents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of gold coin or convertible cur- rencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, provided that the conversion serves to make a current payment to a resident, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Aus- trian residents, who must, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents or if the payment serves to finance direct investment in Austria or the purchase of real estate in Austria. Bal- ances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses permit their use for payments for many current and some capital transactions. The transfer abroad of funds in Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. In most cases licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of coun- tries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantita- tive restriction. All goods included in the Annexes require licenses but most are free of quantitative restric- tion. For many goods licenses are granted by the cus- toms, at the time of clearance, when they are imported f rom any country other than Rhodesia.1-2 Nearly all imports f rom GATT countries, their associated terri- tories, and some other countries3 are liberalized. Aus- tria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles as defined in Article XII, Section 1, of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (ba r te r ). State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply 1 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported f rom any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 8 The provision concerning Rhodesia was rescinded w i th e f fect from March 1, 1980. 3 The fu ll list is as follows: Algeria, Argen t ina, Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Denma rk ( inc lud ing Faroe Islands and G r e en l and ), Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ire land, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, Democratic Kampuchea, Kenya, Korea, Kuwa i t, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mau r i tan ia, Mauritius, Netherlands, New Zealand, N ica ragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Afr ica, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Un i ted Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, People's Dem- ocratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Za ire, and Zambia. 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA to specified imports from GATT countries. Discre- tionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, including imports of certain textiles from specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payment; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains, milk and butter, and cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance with a special system of con- trols and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Marketing Law and the law governing livestock farming and trading, and the marketing of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Certain agricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to con- clude transactions involving current invisibles with resi- dents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Exceptions comprise certain transactions con- cerning transport and insurance. Most transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of other countries (e.g., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repairs) are covered by general licenses; for the remaining transactions, individual licenses are required. Payments on account of generally authorized invisibles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Other payments abroad up to S 1,000 may be made freely and at any time. The remaining payments on account of invisibles to "multi- lateral nonmember countries" require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange from authorized banks or may obtain, as short- term advances from nonresidents in multilateral coun- tries, up to the equivalent of 826,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food, as well as transportation. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin. 46 Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant minis- try or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. Goods exported under compensation arrange- ments are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of rele- vant bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 26,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared within eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently are used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign banknotes and coin without limit. Capital Some inward capital transfers, some transactions that could lead to such inflows, and some private sector bor- rowing from nonresidents are at present restricted. The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian securities from authorized banks is permitted freely, but the acquisition of shares or participations in Austrian companies or firms, and of most Austrian real estate not intended for personal use is subject to individual approval by the National Bank. Direct investments by nonresidents nor- mally are permitted when they serve to create or main- tain lasting economic relations and provided that they are financed from foreign currency accounts or Free Schilling Accounts, in freely convertible foreign cur- rency, or from profit claims on the domestic firm con- cerned. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, including those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior approval by the National Bank and many are restricted. Approvals are granted generally, but not exclusively, for (1) investment credits for productive enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and (3) loans from nonresident relatives to residents up to S 260,000 a borrower a year (these are licensed f ree ly ). The granting of permission for com- mercial credits with a maturity of one to five years to finance imports of consumer goods, especially passenger automobiles, is restricted; import credit with a maturity customary in the trade concerned, but not exceeding one year for consumer goods, is licensed freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The short-term foreign assets and liabilities of author- ized banks in convertible currencies are not subject to limitation, but an agreement with the National Bank provides that the domestic credit institutions are to refrain from increasing domestic liquidity by taking up foreign currency funds abroad and thus raising their schilling liabilities, and from calling in their foreign loans prior to maturity. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept convertible currencies from abroad for interbank on-lending abroad at maturities of up to five years. In 1979 the National Bank licensed financial loans to nonresidents with maturities of more than one year only to the extent that funds were made available through the redemption of loans outstanding on December 31, 1978, plus 15 per cent. Mortgage loans, export finance credits, and loans to Austrian sub- sidiaries abroad were not subject to this limit. The National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participations in Aus- trian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Austria) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants, and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inherit- ances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents may freely grant loans to nonresident relatives. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- ment, to acquire participation rights in foreign com- panies, associations, and other enterprises, and to estab- lish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment usually may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is intended for the personal use of the buyer within one year), to grant commercial or investment credits, to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert influence on the management of the nonresident enterprise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad, provided that the proceeds of the credit are not used within Austria (except for commer- cial credits). Domestic insurance companies may con- clude life insurance contracts in Austria with non- residents. Transactions and operations mentioned in the three preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, without restriction, foreign securities issued in "multi- lateral member countries" and registered on stock exchanges4 and Austrian securities; for foreign securi- 4 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents from nonresidents of securities of a participating na ture in whatever legal form (including shares) that are issued by foreign investment funds or by similar institutions of whatever kind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Individual licenses are issued AUSTRIA ties and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securi- ties listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in con- vertible currencies. Residents may sell foreign securities and Austrian external bonds to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The National Bank is author- ized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coin, except in transactions with monetary authorities of other countries or with international financial institutions. The Bank has author- ized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Austria gold coin that is not legal tender on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers (including nonresidents); the prices are based on those for coin and unmanufactured gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Austria and against payment in schillings, gold coin that is not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coin (restrikes) to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. It has also issued a commemorative gold coin with a face value of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any form, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coin that is not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; further- more, domestic trading between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coin, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, dentists, and jewelers; the Mint, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange gold in any form among themselves. Domestic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at the general rate of 18 per cent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the automatically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange or when the issuing institution is subject to adequate surveillance. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA license is issued either by the Ministry of Trade, Com- merce, and Indus try to industrial users, or by the cus- toms office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for certain gold imports within its jurisdiction. Where this law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold ba rs ), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank cover- ing the purchase of gold. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authorization by the National Bank; the Bank has issued a general license permitting nonresident travelers to take out coin that is not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip, and allowing resident travelers to "multilateral member countries" to export such coin up to a value of S 1,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued au toma t ica l ly by the customs authorities; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Min- istry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1979 January 24. The National Bank announced, in con- junc t ion w i th other measures designed to increase exports and to reduce interest rates, that the limit for refinancing export bills was raised from S 6 billion to S7 billion. September 7. The value of the Austrian schilling was appreciated by about 1.5 per cent. September 24. The rate for the Austrian schilling against the deutsche mark remained unchanged when the va lue of the deutsche ma rk was raised vis-a-vis other EMS currencies. November 2. Under a new gentlemen's agreement, commercial banks undertook not to increase their net foreign position dur ing the period up to mid-1980, except for hedg ing transactions to cover exchange risks. December 31. The gentlemen's agreement of August 18, 1971 expired. Under that agreement com- mercial banks unde r took not to convert assets denom- inated in foreign currencies into Aus t r ian schillings for the sole purpose of increasing their liquid schilling assets. 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Bahamas is the Baham ian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U.S. do l lar circulates concurrently w i th the Baham ian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$l and B$ 1.005, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also off ic ia l ly quoted, the buy ing rate being based on the New York market mid-rate, and the selling rate 0.5 per cent above the buy ing rate. The Central Bank of the Bahamas deals only w i th commercial banks. For transac t ions w i th the public commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50 per cent b u y i ng and 0.75 per cent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 per cent buy ing or se l l ing per <£ stg. 1. These charges are add i t ional to the Cen- tral Bank's charges. A s tamp tax of 7 cents is app l ied to all outward remittances where the amount is B$30 or less. A f u r t h er tax of 7 cents is levied on every add i t ion al B$30 or frac t ion thereof. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency" l may be negotiated between residents th rough an investment currency dealer at free ly determined rates, usually a t t rac t ing a p rem ium over the official market rate. On December 31, 1979 the bid and offer rates reflecting th is p r em ium were 15 and 20 per cent, respectively. The Bahamas fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval au thor i ty for import payments, travel exchange, and cash g i f ts is not delegated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and amm u n i t i o n, and, in certain cases, indus tr ial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Depar tment issues import and export licenses for arms and ammun i t ion. Imports of industrial gold are licensed by the Central Bank. ijhis is foreign currency in respect of which there is a general or specific Central Bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of the Bahamas f rom the sale or redemption of fore ign currency securities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property or of direct investments outside the Bahamas. The use of inves tment currency is prescribed for the purchase from nonresidents of fore ign currency securities and the mak ing of direct investments outside the Bahamas. Prescription of Currency The Bahamas' exchange control system makes no d is t inc t ion between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any fo re ign cu r rency2 or in Baham ian dollars through an Ex ternal Accoun t. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may f ree ly open External Accounts denominated in Bahamian dollars for w in ter residents and for persons w i th residency permits but without work permits. W i th the prior approval of the Central B ank, authorized banks may also open External Accounts for nonresident companies that have direct inves tmen ts in the Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External Accounts are no rma l ly funded en t i re ly f rom foreign currency o r ig in a t ing outside the Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts w i th the Central Bank's approval. Balances may be converted freely i n to fore ign currency and t ran s fe r red abroad.3 Accounts wh ich are credited w i th funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by em igran ts. Where the va lue of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Accoun t. Balances on Blocked Accounts are trans- fe rab le through the official exchange ma rket after four years or through the inves tment currency market at any t ime; they may also be invested, w i th the Central Bank's approva l, in cer ta in resident-held assets or be spent loca l ly for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The impo r ta t ion of certain commodities is prohibited or con tro l led because of hea l th, social, or human i ta r ian reasons. All o ther goods may be imported without a l icense. The p r ior approval of the Central Bank is required for m ak ing paymen ts for imports, irrespective of or ig in; 4 th is approval is no rma l ly given automatically upon subm iss ion of pro forma invoices or other relevant documen ts p rov ing the existence of a purchase contract. Impo rt du t ies va ry f rom zero to 110 per cent, depending on the type of goods. Customs entries are subject to a s tamp tax at a rate of 1 per cent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on cu r rent payments. Au thor ized dealers have been given au tho r i ty to make comprise all ~ Foreign currenc ies B a h am i an do l lar. •<! Persons of fore ign na t iona l i ty who have been g ran ted "temporary resident" status are t rea ted in some respects as nonresidents but are not perm i t ted to hold Ex te rnal Accounts. 4 Except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands, where a u t h o r i ty is delegated to c lea r ing bank branches. cu r renc ies o ther than the t h is 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS payments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles w i th in specified limits. Such payments include freight, ships' disburse- ments, commissions, royalties, and insurance payments. Residents are entitled, on application to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$ 1,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The allowance of B$ 1,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in the Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of these amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves all bona fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered w i th in one month of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, w i th in one month of his return to the Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$6,000 a person an academic year is normally granted upon application. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Tem- porary residents may remit up to 50 per cent of their wages and salaries but where commitments outside the Bahamas are larger than 50 per cent of wages and salaries additional amounts may be remitted. A traveler may take out of the Bahamas Bahamian notes not exceeding B$70 in value, and notes of any other territory not exceeding US$1,000 in value. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their desti- nation or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner accept- able to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an author- ized dealer without delay, but these requirements are seldom enforced. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes. The import of domestic banknotes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside the Baha- mas require exchange control approval and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subsequent utilization of the funds in the Bahamas may require authorization. The permis- sion of the Central Bank is required in respect of any 50 action whereby nonresidents acquire control of an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resi- dent individuals and companies require the specific permission of the Central Bank to ma in ta in bank accounts outside the Bahamas.5 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$ 100,000 or 30 per cent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and w i ll continue thereafter. Invest- ments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms subject to individual approval by the Central Bank, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of for- eign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments which are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a non- resident. Where an investment takes the form of a purchase of real property, the nonresident must obtain permission. Such permission is normally granted, provided that a f a ir price is paid, and payment may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an External Account or in fo re ign currency. In October 1979, the Government announced that sales would not be permitted except in cases where land is to be used for residential purposes by approved persons and for approved industrial or development purposes. For all investments with approved status, permis- sion is automatically given for the transfer of profits and dividends, representing earned trading profits and investment income. In the event of a sale or liquida- tion, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Cen- tral Bank to buy property outside the Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, can be made only with investment currency, and approval is limited to one property for each family. Any incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency; expenditures necessary to preserve the property or arising directly from its ownership, may, with per- mission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. 5 Banks and trusts established in the Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to nonresident benef ic iar ies under w i l ls or intestacies of persons who were Baham ian residents at the t ime of the ir deaths is permitted. However, permission is not no rma l ly given for Baham ian residents to settle any property, other than by w i l l, for the benefit of non- residents. A resident may make cash g i f ts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, w i th perm iss ion, in special circumstances. Foreign na t iona ls dom ic i led in the Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange con trol purposes, may be e l ig ib le for a measure of exemp t ion f rom cer ta in exchange control obligations, notably w i th respect to the manda tory deposit of fo re ign currency securities and the su r render of ce r ta in other fore ign cap i tal assets. Nonresident buyers of Baham ian secur i t ies must pay for such purchases in Baham ian dollars from an External Account, in f u n ds eligible for credit to an Ex ternal Account, or in Baham ian do l la rs a r i s i ng from the sale of foreign currency in the o f f ic ial fore ign exchange ma rke t; interest, d iv idends, and capital pay- ments on such securities may not be rem i t ted outside the Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Baham ian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities w i th official exchange or out of export proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made w i th invest- ment currency. All purchases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in the Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wherever the switch takes place, require permission f rom the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.0 All for- eign securities purchased by residents of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an au thor ized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities, and sales pro- ceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country w i th the in ten t ion of residing permanently outside the Bahamas are redesig- nated upon departure as nonresidents. Under normal rules persons leaving the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may transfer at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new coun try of residence, and may also take normal household and personal effects w i th them. Where the total va lue of the ir Baha- mian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is trans- 6 These are ten banks and t rust companies and others authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive securities in deposit. BAHAMAS ferable through the official exchange market after four years, or th rough the investment currency market at any time. A f t er a person's redesignation as a nonresident, income accru ing f rom his assets rema in ing in the Bahamas is no rm a l ly remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks require per- mission to borrow fore ign currency from nonresidents, and au thor ized dealers are subject to exchange control d i rec t ions w i th regard to their lending of foreign cu r rency to residents. Residents also require permis- sion to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, fo r e ign currency loans by conversion of Baham ian dol- lars. Where pe rm iss ion is granted for residents to accept fo re ign cu r r en cy loans, such permission is normally con- d i t i o n al upon the cu r rency be ing offered for sale without de lay to an au thor ized dealer, unless the funds are requ i red to meet payments to nonresidents for which perm iss ion has been specifically given. A resident company which is wholly owned by non re s iden ts is not no rm a l ly allowed to raise wo rk ing capital in Baham ian dollars unless such funds are a sma ll propor t ion of the total inves tmen t. If the com- p a ny is partly owned by nonresidents, the amount of such local currency borrowing is de term ined in rela- t ion to the nonres ident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in the Bahamas requ i re permission before they extend loans in domestic cu r rency to any body corporate (other than a b a n k ), which is resident in the Bahamas and is by any means controlled, whether directly or indi- rectly, by nonresidents. However, companies which are set up by nonresidents p r ima r i ly to import and d is t r ibu te products manu fac tu red outside the Bahamas are not n o rm a l ly allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars f rom residents either for fixed or work ing capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; borrowings in a foreign currency normally are per- m i t ted on application. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bu l l ion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for indus tr ial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current indu s t r i al requirements. Import licenses are freely issued by the Central Bank to indus tr ial users. Author- ized dealers are not requ ired to obtain licenses for bu l l ion or coin. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import duty on gold bu l l ion or gold coin; however, an import duty of 30 per cent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry f rom all sources. A 7.5 per cent stamp tax payable to the customs is also levied on gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on the acquisition or retention by residents of gold coin. The Bahamas has 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS issued commemorative gold coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, and B$2,500; these are legal tender but do not circulate. On the occasion of the fifth anniversary of Independ- ence, the Bahamas issued commemorative coins of B$10 in silver and B$100 in gold, and to commemorate the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of Parliament, commemorative coins of B$25 in silver and B$250 in gold. Changes during 1979 February 2. Import duties were reduced for certain medicaments, public service motor vehicles, and private automobiles. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Bahrain is the Bahra in Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at BD 0.476190 = SDR1. Bahrain confines exchange rates for the Bahrain dinar within margins of 7.25 per cent, in terms of the fixed relationship between the Bahrain dinar and the SDR. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The mid- rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency is adjusted from time to time. The Monetary Agency also quotes daily rates for pounds sterling and deutsche mark based on the latest available rates for the U.S. dollar against those cur- rencies. On December 31, 1979 the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.37600 and BD 0.37800, respectively, per US$1. The Monetary Agency does not deal with the public. In their dealings w i th the public, commercial banks are required to use the Agency's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark but they are author- ized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York market rate for the currency con- cerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Monetary Agency is the exchange control author- ity but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be registered with the commercial regis- try maintained by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Agri- culture and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited, as are products manufac tured by foreign companies that have been blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cu l tu red pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are required on ly for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages. Rice and sugar are in practice imported on ly by the Bahra in Import-Export Company. Exchange for payments in respect of per- m i t ted impor ts may be obtained free ly. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South A f r ica have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that paymen ts must not be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahra in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on cap i tal receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents, but paymen ts may not be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Profits f rom foreign investments in Bahra in may be transferred abroad f ree ly w i th the excep- t ion that und er A r t ic le 72 of the Monetary Agency Law the banks are subject to special rules regarding the pay- ment of d iv idends and the rem i t tance of the ir profits. Licensed offshore bank ing un i ts may free ly engage in transactions w i th nonresidents; transactions with resi- dents are not no rm a l ly perm i t ted. Gold Res iden ts may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm are f ree ly permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 per cent customs du ty but gold ingots are exempt. Changes during 1979 May 5. Following the decision by Qatar to revalue its currency against the U.S. dollar, the arrangement es tab l ish ing fixed exchange rates between the currencies of Bah ra in, Qatar, and the United A rab Emirates lapsed. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies. Changes in the exchange rate for the pound sterling are generally made when fluctuations in the exchange rates between the pound sterling and the currencies in the basket exceed 2.5 per cent in either direction. On December 31, 1979 the middle rate of the official buy ing and selling rates (spot) was Tk 34.7118 = £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for cur- rencies other than sterling are based on the London market rates for the currencies concerned. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 the spot buy ing and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central b ank) for authorized dealers were Tk 34.6868 and Tk 34.7368, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. On the same date the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 34.6712 and Tk 34.7680, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. A different effective exchange rate arises through the operation of the Wage Earners' Scheme, under which foreign exchange earnings remitted by workers abroad may be used for specified imports or for expenditure on foreign travel. On December 29, 1979 this rate was Tk 19.10 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are con- fined to purchases and sales of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Forward facilities at authorized banks are available in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars for export proceeds and for import payments, as well as for certain sterling payments of shipping companies and airlines. Forward transactions cover up to a maximum period of six months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The six foreign and six domestic commercial banks have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized banks ). The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce (Foreign Trade D iv is ion) is responsible for the issuance of import licenses. Certain trade trans- actions are conducted through state trading agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with countries with which Bangla- desh has bilateral payments agreements1 normally must 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, and Yugoslavia. 54 be effected through clearing accounts specified in the agreements. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (Burma, India, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to raw ju te, ju te goods, and tea and to petroleum and natural gas and their products) must be effected in Asian mone- tary units through the Clearing Union.2'3 As regards other countries, settlements normally take place in ster- l ing and other convertible currencies or through Non- resident Taka Accounts. Payments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (w i th the exception of those countries from wh ich importation is prohibited); they may be made ( 1) in takas for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bangladesh of the coun t ry concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in takas from a Nonresident Taka Account of a bank abroad. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia,4 and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of ind iv idua ls, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is permanently residing.5 Nonresident Accounts may be opened only with the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Speci- fied debits and credits to nonresident accounts may be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank du r ing the absence of the account holder f rom Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, in terna t ional nonprofit humanitarian organiza- tions fun c t ion ing in Bangladesh and their expatriate em- ployees, foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploratory work, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bang- ladesh regardless of their status are allowed to maintain Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with receipts of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange, and may be debited freely 2 Payments made under the Bangladesh-Pakistan are required to be in convertible fo re ign exchange. "The Bangladesh Bank announces exchange rates between the Asian Clearing Union and the member countries' currencies twice a month. 4 The sanctions imposed against Rhodesia under resolutions of the United Nations were withdrawn on Janua ry 9, 1980. 5 The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. trade agreement ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and at any time for remittances abroad in convertible currencies and for transfers to Nonconvertible Taka Accounts. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely permitted. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, Bangladesh na- tionals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are work- ing abroad are permitted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with ( 1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking channels and postal channels; (2) pro- ceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, travelers checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holder while on a temporary visit to Bangladesh, provided they were declared to the customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; and (3) transfers from other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The accounts may be debited, without restric- tion, but subject to reporting to the Bangladesh Bank, for the following purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (3) payment for imports of specified goods; (4) payment of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with the handling of the accounts; and (5) travel expendi- tures abroad for business or private purposes up to the equivalent of £ stg. 100 in a year for each country for travel to Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, and up to the equivalent of £ stg. 300 a trip for travel to other countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. Imports financed from Bangladesh's own re- sources are licensed within the framework of an annual import policy (import budget). Under the import policy for the fiscal year 1979/80 (July 1979-June 1980), items that may be imported were classified into four broad categories: ( 1) goods imported by "com- mercial importers"; (2) raw materials and packing materials imported by "industrial units" recognized as such under an entitlement system; (3) items imported exclusively by the TCB and /or jointly by the TCB, other approved agencies, and private sector importers; and (4) items imported under the Wage Earners' Scheme against payment from Foreign Currency Accounts. All imports require licenses or approval on letter of credit authorization forms. Single country licenses or letter of credit authorization forms are issued for im- ports under bilateral trade or payments arrangements and for tied aid imports. Other import licenses are valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel, Rhodesia (see footnote 4), and South Africa are prohibited. Licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued to importers generally remain valid for shipment for 6 months from the date of opening letters of credit, if BANGLADESH the letter of credit is established within the period specified by the licensing authority. Licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued for imports of ma- chinery and spare parts, however, remain valid for 9 months from the date of opening the letter of credit. Licenses issued to industrial consumers are valid for 12 months. Licenses (other than those issued under the Export Performance License Scheme and the Wage Earners' Scheme) are not transferable, and when they expire, are not normally revalidated except where, owing to circumstances beyond the control of importers, the letter of credit requirement could not be met or shipping arrangements could not be made. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Imports of books and periodicals, as well as drugs and medicines, up to specified limits are also permissible on a consign- ment basis. Public sector importers may, however, im- port on a cash against documents basis. Certain imports are reserved for the TCB, including certain chemical and metal products, cement, sugar, certain cotton textiles, and woolen fabrics. The importation of a number of i tems is reserved exclusively for public sector agencies; these include airplane parts, fire engines, coal and coke, cinematographic films, certain cotton textiles, edible oil, fertilizers, insecticides, and wood and timber. There are limited facilities outside the import program for minor imports by specified end-users, such as hospitals and educational or technical institutions. The licensing of imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers is gov- erned by an entitlement system, based on the require- ments for various industries dur ing each "import" period as established by the Director-General of Industries. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitlement for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the entitlement. Separately, industrial consumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against licenses issued to indus tr ial consumers must be used in the industry con- cerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Under an Export Performance License Scheme aimed at encouraging manufac tured exports, industries engaged in export business (other than jute, jute goods, and loose tea), or with export potential, may receive licenses in excess of their normal entitlement for the importation of their raw material requirements or other specified items, on the basis of their export performance. Licenses issued under the scheme have to be claimed w i th in six mon ths of the realization of the export proceeds. These licenses are transferable. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided au toma t ica l ly by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected w i th au thor ized trade transactions generally are not restricted. Payments for most other inv i s ib les requ i re p r ior approval and are restricted. Foreign exchange is not provided for tourist travel. Applications for fore ign exchange for business travel, medical t rea tmen t, and education abroad are considered on an i n d i v i d u al basis; as a ru le, for business travel the amount gran ted is US$50 a day, subject to a m a x im um of US$3,000 a calendar year for exporters whose total export earn ings in the preced ing year were Tk 2.5 m i l l i on or above and a m a x im um of US$1,500 for those whose export ea rn ings were less than Tk 2.5 m i l l ion; for medical trea tment the amount granted is about «£ stg. 400. A Bangladesh na t ional proceeding abroad by air is allowed to purchase foreign exchange from a Foreign Currency Account und er the Wage Earners' Scheme, subject to a cer ta in l im it (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals wo rk ing in Bangladesh must ob ta in approval before m a k i ng remittances abroad for fam i ly ma in tenance pur- poses; such approval is usua l ly granted up to 50 per cent of wages or salaries, subject to a max imum of £, stg. 200 a month (net of t ax) if the terms of employ- ment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign cur- rency and travelers checks they declared on en try less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, w i thout ob ta in ing the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 500 or 25 per cent of the amount converted, which- ever is smaller, in to convertible foreign currencies at the t ime of the ir ex i t. Resident travelers may take out for- eign currency and travelers checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. Bangla- desh na t iona ls may take out Tk 20 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia (see footnote 4), and South Afr ica are prohibited. The proceeds f rom exports must be received w i th in four mon ths of sh ipmen t. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds f rom inv is ib les must be surrendered, but Bangladesh nationals wo rk ing abroad may retain their earnings in Foreign Currency Accounts. All Bangladesh nationals who are resident in Bangladesh must sur- render any foreign exchange com ing into their posses- sion, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one mon th of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh con t inuous ly for more than six mon ths are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangla- desh or services rendered, w i th in one mon th of the date of acquisition. The import of Bangladesh currency 56 notes and coin exceeding Tk 20 is prohibited. Foreign cu r rency trave lers checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without l im i t, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs a u t h o r i t i es upon arrival. Capital All ou twa rd t rans fe rs of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned cap i ta l. Inwa rd capital transfers also requ i re approva l. Movable and immovable assets, other t h an fo re ign exchange, owned in any coun try other than Bang ladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank. There is no restriction on the importation of securities in to Bangladesh, but the t rans fer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approva l. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by residents or not, and to all fo re ign securities held by residents. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdraf ts f rom overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time, pro- vided that they are obtained only in the currency of the coun t ry or mone tary area in which the overseas bank branch or correspondent is situated. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin is pro- h ib i ted. Borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled en terpr ises f rom commerc ial banks in Bangla- desh, as well as f rom abroad, requ ires approval, and loans by au thor ized dealers in local currency against overseas guaran tees or collateral outside Bangladesh also requ i re app rova l. Au tho r ized dealers may, however, approve loans, overdraf ts, or credit facilities against goods in tended for export from Bangladesh to com- panies con tro l led by persons resident outside Bangla- desh. Au thor ized dealers must obtain approval before m a k i ng any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whe ther secured or unsecured. They are not no rma l ly perm i t ted to hold short-term foreign assets other than sma ll working balances. The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is required for nonres iden ts other than banks to establish or con- t i n ue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign firms with branches in Bangladesh are required to subm it state- men ts of th e ir foreign exchange receipts and local expenses at the end of each calendar quar ter. Under the e x i s t i ng indu s t r i al inves tment policy, foreign private inv e s tm ent is perm i t ted in collaboration with both the Gove rnment and p r iva te entrepreneurs. In the private sector, however, fore ign pa r t ic ipa t ion is l im i ted to those indus t r ies where technical know-how is not locally avail- able, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital ou t lay is high, and to indus tr ies that are e i ther based on local raw ma ter ia ls or that are who l ly export oriented. For a new investment, foreign investors generally are required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign ex- change component. There is no ceiling on private ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investment, but investment above Tk 100 million needs special approval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All foreign investments require approval by the Investment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted net of tax. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally granted. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coin) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other form except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes during 1979 January 15. The exchange rate of the taka for the pound sterling was changed to Tk 31.125 = £ stg. 1. There were two further changes in the exchange rate for sterling to Tk 32.025 = <£ stg. 1 on April 16, and to Tk 33.00 = <£ stg. 1 on May 28, before the pegging arrangements were changed on August 13 (see below). April 27. The Bangladesh Bank introduced spot sales transactions with authorized dealers in deutsche mark and Japanese yen. July 1. Under the import program for the fiscal year 1979/80, the level of imports was established at Tk 16.5 billion; this amount was to be financed by cash (Tk 9 billion), by commodity aid (Tk 4.1 billion), by the BANGLADESH Wage Earners' Scheme (Tk 2.2 billion), and by barter (Tk 1.2 billion). For 1978/79, the level of imports had been set at Tk 14.5 billion. July 21. The bilateral trade and payments agreement with Viet Nam was extended by one year. August 13. The exchange rate of the taka was pegged to a basket of major currencies within margins of 2.5 per cent. The middle rate of the official spot buying and selling rates for the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency, was changed to Tk 34.7118 = <£ stg. 1. August 15. It was announced that imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme would be permitted only against payment from funds deposited in Foreign Currency Accounts or remitted to Bangladesh through regular banking channels. This regulation did not apply to imports of transport machinery and equipment by Bang- ladesh workers abroad, provided that evidence of earn- ings was submitted, or to imports shipped by workers returning to Bangladesh. August 20. The foreign exchange allowance for pil- grims traveling to Mecca for ha jj in 1979 was set at Saudi Arabian riyals 2,102 for travel by air and SRls 2,322 for travel by sea. August 20. The bilateral trade and payments agree- ment with Bulgaria was extended by one year. September 13. The bilateral trade and payments agreement with Poland was extended by one year. October 29. The bilateral trade and payments agree- ment with Hungary was extended by one year. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 = US$1. On December 31, 1979 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$ 1.9975 and BDS$2.0250, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates include commission charges of 0.1875 per cent buying and 1.375 per cent selling. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Barbados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$ 1.7020 and BDS$ 1.7287, respectively, per Can$l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$1.1572 and BDS$1.1754, respectively, per DM 1; and those for sterling were BDS$4.4521 and BDS$4.5218, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional mone- tary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) coun- tries1 at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.125 per cent) but purchases only East Caribbean and Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the commission that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in CARICOM currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between resi- dents and persons resident in Rhodesia or South Africa. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Affairs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than Rhodesia or South Africa may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an External Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements 1PThe CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 58 with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dol- lars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue travelers checks denominated in U.S. dollars to Bar- badian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, author- ized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies For- eign Currency Accounts in the names of residents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for open- ing these accounts is given on the basis of the antici- pated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, under the conditions of approval established at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain pay- ments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited and certain imports originating in non- CARICOM countries require individual licenses. The use of import licensing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy, since tariff policy is pre-empted by CARICOM. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restric- tion. Some items on the import licensing list may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution freely imported throughout the year, while some others are subject to temporary restriction (particularly agri- cultural products which tend to be subject to seasonal restriction). Certain imports are prohibited; these include various foodstuffs and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "Negative List" for certain garments, the importation of which is totally prohibited if the product is below a minimum c.i.f. value. Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Bar- bados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to authorized dealers. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving residents of Rhodesia and South Africa, payments for all com- mercial transactions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal nature and for sun- dry payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and BDS$200 a day, up to BDS$6,000 a person a calendar year for business travel), expenses of education abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a year), subscriptions to newspapers and magazines, income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance premiums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthor- ized transfer of capital seems to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Residents traveling to any destination outside Bar- bados may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$100. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they had previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any country; these goods include rice, cane BARBADOS sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is super- vised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months from the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct invest- ments by residents and the purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Bar- bados, and earnings on these securities must be repatri- ated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 annually for each nonresident beneficiary, subject to the payment of estate duties. Dowries in the form of settlements, and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents with exchange control approval, nor- mally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such invest- ment is permitted, subject to the submission of docu- mentary evidence as to the validity of the remittance, the discharge of any liabilities related to the invest- ment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securi- ties registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realiza- tion of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as follows: for the last five years at 8 per cent per annum; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to bor- row in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100 and BDS$200 are legal tender and are in limited circula- tion. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Affairs; no license is required to export gold but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes during 1979 March 19. Wheat flour and maize flour were placed on the list of items requiring an import license. March 19. Cornmeal was placed on the list of items requiring an import license. April 5. Dried, dehydrated, or evaporated vegetables, whole, cut, sliced, broken, or in powder, but not fur- ther prepared, were placed on the list of items requir- ing an import license. April 5. Frozen fried potatoes and frozen potato chips were placed on the list of items requiring an import license. July 23. Instant mashed potatoes were placed on the list of items requiring an import license. July 23. Boxes, bags, and other packing containers of paper and paperboard, paper bags, and cardboard boxes were placed on the list of items requiring an import license. October 22. Fresh, chilled, or frozen fish were placed on the list of items requiring an import license. December 19. The basic allocation of foreign ex- change for business travel was raised from BDS$4,500 a year to BDS$6,000 a year. The daily allocation was also increased from BDS$150 to BDS$200. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 57, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc. The currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc which, in accordance with a Luxembourg decree, is at par with the Belgian franc. Luxembourg is linked to Belgium in a monetary association. Belgium and Luxem- bourg participate with Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and the Nether- lands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accord- ance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain the spot exchange rates between the Belgian franc and the Luxembourg franc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per cent) above or below the bilateral central rates. The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at speci- fied intervention rates. On December 31, 1979 these rates were Belgian Francs Specified Intervention or Luxembourg Francs Rates Per: Upper limit Lower limit 100 Danish kroner 526.90 503.75 100 French francs 696.00 665.375 100 deutsche mark 1,639.55 1,567.40 1 Irish pound 60.9020 58.2225 1,000 Italian lire 36.490 32.365 100 Netherlands guilders 1,483.25 1,418.00 The participants in the EMS are not maintaining exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rateSj the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. In Belgium-Luxembourg there are two spot exchange markets, the official (reglemente or regulated) market and the free market, which are separated; foreign cur- rency acquired in one market may not be sold in the other. Most current transactions are settled in the official market: only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market. Most capital transactions take place in the free market. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. In the official market most convertible currencies are dealt.1 However, although Zai'rian currency (the zaire) 1 Currencies dealt in the official market are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars; the Australian dollar and the South African rand are not officially quoted. is officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) does not permit the use of the zai're in settlements with countries other than Zaire, or the exchange of the zai're for convertible Belgian francs or other convertible currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases of sales of foreign exchange. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender con- vertible currencies in the official spot market until a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make forward purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that any foreign currency purchased is used for the authorized settlement of obligations within 15 working days from delivery (on the delivery date itself if the ma tur i ty of the forward contract is less than 15 days); exchange not used within that period must be resold in the official market. Profits resulting from forward con- tracts not used to cover authorized inward or outward payments through the official market must be sur- rendered to the Treasury. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the official market were BF 27.9725 and BF 28.1225, respectively, per US$1. In the free exchange market, all currencies (includ- ing domestic and foreign banknotes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On December 31, 1979 the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 28.99 buying and BF 29.01 selling, per US$1. Any resident or nonresident, including banks, may deal in the free market. Forward transactions, whether by banks or nonbanks, are uncontrolled and do not require a permitted underlying transaction. There is normally no intervention in forward exchange in either exchange market. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg; the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (IBLC). Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The Belgo-Luxembourg Administrative Commis- sion has authority to license trade transactions; it deter- mines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresi- dent account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (comprising Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire, although the BLEU is not a party to any bilateral payments agreement) and the convertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other com- mercial expenses, including insurance. List B covers settlements of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, sub- scriptions, taxes, and public administration payments. List C covers (1) sharing in administrative expenses of central offices, by branches or affiliates; (2) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits, and (3) repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality. List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family maintenance payments, capital investments, liquidation of invest- ments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Bel- gian or Luxembourg nationality, transfers by immi- grants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are as summarized in the table below. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Payments for goods of Egyptian origin (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum) are subject to special rules. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral* Outward Payments Convertible Convertible Official Convertible Convertible Bilateral Any Any Inward Payments Official or Free Free Convertible Convertible Official Convertible Convertible Convertible Other Official or Free Free | Convertible j or Financial Convertible Any Free Bilateral Convertible Official Financial or Convertible Bilateral or Convertible* Bilateral Convertible Other Official or Free Free } Bilateral or ) Convertible* Bilateral Any Free Bilateral or Convertible* A,B C D A,B,C,D A,B C D A,B C D * Bilateral Account of the country concerned. Settlements with or credit to Convertible Accounts in zai'res held with banks in Zaire. Zaire may alternatively be made by debit 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.2 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents which either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a non- resident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium and Luxembourg. Bal- ances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Con- vertible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are subject to authorization by the IBLC. Convertible Accounts may be held in the form of sight accounts (demand deposits), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries.3 They may be used freely for settlements which either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium and Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated in the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries, and are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale of con- vertible currencies by a nonresident in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be trans- ferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, Rwanda, and Zai're. In practice, the authorities permit the con- version of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the cen- 2 International organizations and foreign diplomatic representations established in the BLEU maintain Special Accounts, which are equiva- lent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the latter. Foreign employees of the organizations and representations mentioned may maintain Special Convertible Accounts. 8 Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic repre- sentations accredited in the BLEU and by specified international organizations situated in the BLEU, individuals residing in Burundi, Rwanda, or Zaire, and BLEU nationals residing abroad temporarily for professional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resi- dent Accounts. BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG tral banks of these three countries into foreign cur- rencies in the official market. Imports and Import Payments Individual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam,4 and (2) a number of imports from all other countries outside the BLEU.5 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile products, cer- tain agricultural products and foodstuffs, coal and petroleum products, and diamonds. All other com- modities are free of license and quantitative restriction; the sole requirement is a form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declara- t ion ), which must be presented to an authorized bank. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other EC countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EC countries and on Greek wine; the BLEU also applies a system of mini- mum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 100,000 in value. An author- ized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired until the import payment is due. Exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or six months after the date of customs clearance; prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for payments exceeding BF 25 million and for payments made more than 30 days before the date of customs clearance. However, in the latter case, prior examination is not required if payment takes place either under a documentary credit or on a documentary collection basis, provided that documents are submitted to the authorized bank showing that the goods have already been shipped to the BLEU. Payments for transit transactions must be made not later than three months from the date of any advance payment collected from the foreign buyer, and may not be made earlier than three months before the date on which such payment is expected to be received. 4 Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of commodities when originating in and shipped from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Ger- man Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 5 Most imports in the latter group do not require an import license when imported from the Netherlands or from other EC countries. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for trans- actions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. For payments exceeding BF 25 million and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of supporting docu- ments by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area countries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account) or the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes); payments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes); payments to bilateral countries must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; payments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zai'res through a convertible account in Zaire. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for specified exports to all countries outside the BLEU.6 All other exports are free of license; only a form completed by the exporter and giving notification of the export is required. Exchange control documentation is not required for exports of less than BF 100,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to verify that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authoriza- tion is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export pro- ceeds in convertible currencies must be surrendered to an authorized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three months before the expected date of exportation requires prior authoriza- tion by the IBLC. Proceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles connected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange 6 Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EC countries. 64 market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for authorized current payments. Receipts in con- vertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free mar- ket. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area coun- tries may be carried out through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial nature, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium and Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market (under special license and as an exception to the stand- ard prescription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities have been held at least six months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations for capital transactions. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by non- residents; most of the Belgian franc bond issues on the domestic capital market have in practice been made by international organizations, while issues of Eurobonds denominated in Belgian francs are not normally per- mitted. The Luxembourg authorities have, from time to time, permitted Eurobond issues denominated in Luxem- bourg francs. Public bids • by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts or, in the case of Zaire, in zai'res; inward pay- ments for capital transactions with bilateral countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the free market or, in the case of Zaire, in zaires. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coin or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settlements in respect of gold transactions with convertible area countries (other than payments for semiprocessed gold imported by professional users) may be made only through the free market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign bank- notes. No customs duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except imports for industrial or handicraft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to pro- fessional users, who have to make payment through the BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG in monetary gold are official market. Transactions exempt from value-added tax. Changes during 1979 March 1. The upper limit of import payments and export receipts for which no exchange control docu- mentation was required was raised from BF 50,000 to BF 100,000. It would no longer be necessary to present supporting documents to the authorized bank for most payments for invisibles. The limit above which prior examination of current payments by the IBLC was required was raised from BF 10 million to BF 25 mil- lion. The requirement of prior examination of support- ing documents by the IBLC for current receipts exceed- ing BF 10 million was abolished. March 13. The participation of Belgium and Luxem- bourg in the exchange rate mechanism of the EMS became effective. March 15. The formal link between the Luxembourg franc and gold was abolished. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy- ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for trans- fers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of those relating to gold, Benin's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Benin itself, are considered foreign countries, but for purposes of certain capital controls, the countries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations. The BCEAO is authorized to col- lect, either directly or through banks, financial institu- tions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Direc- torate of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 66 Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through corres- pondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China, however, are made through special accounts.3 All settlements with Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to non- resident accounts of CFA banknotes, Franch banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank- notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized bank. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized inter- mediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. The Societe de TAlimentation Generate du Benin (AGB) has a monopoly over the importation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, condensed milk, alco- holic beverages, and tobacco. Certain other agencies have an import monopoly for other specified commodi- ties. Imports of all other goods originating in countries in the former French Franc Area may be made freely without an import license. Imports of all other goods originating in EC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued automatically. Certain imports are liberalized when originating in member countries of the Organiza- tion for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) other than Japan and require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities originating in OECD countries, all imports originating in Japan, and all imports originating in non-OECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program. Under this program, a global 3 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution quota is established for imports from all countries out- side the former French Franc Area except EC countries. Certain French textiles processed in foreign countries are licensed separately. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documentary credit is opened, or one month before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to the approval of the Directorate of External Com- merce, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining a f ter return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign counries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to countries of the fo rmer French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized for- eign banknotes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresident travelers may take BENIN out free ly the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by the Operations Account countries; a maximum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (trav- elers checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports to all foreign countries must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. All exports, except gold and diamonds, are free of license but require an export application visaed by the Directorate of External Commerce. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries may not be later than 180 days af ter the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and currencies other than those of the former French Franc Area must be sold on the exchange market within two months of the due date. Prior authorization is required for the retention, sale, import, or export of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the former French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Com- 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN merce and Tourism. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism.4 Foreign direct investments in Benin5 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The Minister may request the postponement of the opera- tions, within a period of two months. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be re- ported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting firms (approved by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Commerce and Tourism if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the * Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 5 Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. 68 loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of January 8, 1972) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for medium-sized invest- ments and provides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, from import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed item, and from certain other taxation. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maximum exemption period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain other tax privileges. Plan C is intended for enterprises undertaking to invest more than CFAF 500 million and is granted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. For Plans A, B, and C up to two years for installation time can be added to the period of the agreement. Plan D provides certain bene- fits for Beninese entrepreneurs investing at least CFAF 10 million. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of January 17, 1972. Gold Prior authorization in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, acting on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in, raw diamonds and precious or semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1979 May 15. A special customs tax equivalent to 0.75 per cent of the c.i.f. value was introduced on all imported goods except for certain food products and raw materials. May 25. Import quotas on a range of goods includ- ing beverages, clothing, fertilizers, linens, mopeds, per- fumes and toilet articles, pesticides, and shoes were reduced to 50 per cent of the previous year's consump- tion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Bolivia is the Bolivian Peso. On November 30, 1979 the authorities announced the abolition of the fixed exchange rate regime for the peso and the adoption of a fluctuating exchange rate system to be administered by the Central Bank in accordance with market conditions. Until the end of the year, however, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were maintained at $b 24.51 and $b 24.53, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Sales of foreign exchange by the com- mercial banks and exchange houses are subject to an exchange tax of 1.6 per cent and a stamp tax of 0.2 per cent and, in addition, the selling rate is subject to a banking commission of 0.1 per cent. Accordingly, the effective selling rate of the commercial banks and exchange houses is $b 25 per US$1. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 5, 1967. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank of Bolivia. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Association. Imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce; these agencies are not permitted to import com- modities that are available in Bolivia. Private imports of certain commodities also require prior authoriza- tion; these include live cattle, various foodstuffs, spec- ified motor vehicles, and petroleum and petroleum products. The import of goods that are produced locally is prohibited, in particular, articles of clothing and deter- 1 Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Canadian dollars, Chilean pesos, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Peruvian soles, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. gents. All other goods may be imported freely. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be purchased from commercial banks. Most foreign credits, including officially guaranteed suppliers' credits, are subject to authorization by the National Council for Planning and Economy and to control by the Central Bank. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of either 5 per cent, 10 per cent, or 25 per cent ad valorem, which must be lodged 120 days prior to the anticipated release from customs. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 1 per cent ad valorem. Most imports also are subject to an "additional tax," to an import sur- charge of 3 per cent, and to a tax on services rendered of 1 per cent to 8 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Residents of Bolivian or foreign nationality must pay a travel tax when leaving the country. The tax is $b 200 for air travel to neighboring countries, $b 100 for overland travel to such countries, $b 450 for air travel to other Latin American countries, and $b 600 for air travel to countries outside Latin America. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not normally subject to licensing, although certain exports may be prohibited or restricted from time to time owing to domestic demand and supply factors. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank within 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export. As regards minerals, COMIBOL and the medium-sized mines export their own production, and the Mining Bank that of the small mines of the private sector. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be retained or sold in the exchange market. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents are free of control and may be made freely; inward capital transfers also may be made freely, but govern- ment receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees, are subject to prior authoriza- tion by the National Council for Planning and Economy and to control by the Central Bank. Most foreign loans must be registered with the National Investment Institute. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 10045) of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Code. Certain foreign investments are subject to Decisions Nos. 24 and 103 of the Carta- gena Agreement. Gold Imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are regulated by the Central Bank. The Central Bank also purchases, f o r . i ts use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Without affecting these powers of the Central Bank, the Mining Bank may purchase at home and sell abroad, in unworked form, the output of gold, silver, and plati- num. The Mining Bank also sells gold, silver, and platinum on the domestic market subject to conditions that it establishes jointly with the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its full require- ments of gold from the Mining Bank. Cooperatives and other producers must sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The Mining Bank is authorized to sell a specified quantity of gold annually to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, retain, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1979 January 12. Supreme Decree No. 16106 authorized the free importation of school textbooks in general (scientific, technical, and literary), provided they were not objectionable on social grounds, with the sole excep- tion of reading books for elementary grades. February 1. Supreme Decree No. 16143 prohibited exemptions from the ad valorem charge of 1 per cent on imports approved by Supreme Decree No. 07283 of August 18, 1975. February 1. Supreme Decree No. 16154 extended until December 31, 1979 the exemption from customs duties and taxes and from taxes on services rendered to cover the list of essential consumer goods (including milk, mate, lard, fats, margarine, and canned tuna, salmon, and sardines) itemized in Supreme Decree No. 14716 of July 1, 1977 and Supreme Resolution No. 186326 of March 2, 1978. These products were also exempted from the prior deposit requirement. February 16. Decree-Law No. 16198 determined that with effect from February 15, 1979 all imports by agencies of the Central Government, the decentralized sector, and public enterprises would be required to pay all customs duties and taxes established by the import tar iff; there would be no exemptions from such duties and taxes, although imports effected under special cus- 70 toms regulations regarding product specification and nomenclature were excluded from this requirement. February 22. Supreme Decree No. 16231 revoked Supreme Decree No. 08610 of December 30, 1968, eliminating the provisions pertaining to heading 3.01 of the import tariff and permitting the importation of three million fertilized eggs for breeding purposes. April 5. Supreme Decree No. 16327 established that automotive vehicles already in the country under tem- porary import regulations and imports that were not supported by the relevant import permit could be definitively imported upon cash payment of the current customs duties and taxes, without being subject to the 25 per cent prior deposit or the certified commercial documentation requirements. The regularization process had to be completed within 90 days. June 20. Decree-Law No. 16602 exempted imports of armaments and military supplies not produced domes- tically and imported by the Ministry of National Defense for the exclusive use of the Air Force from the obliga- tion to pay customs duties and taxes established in Decree-Law No. 16198 of February 16, 1979. June 28. An additional ad valorem charge of 2 per cent was established for imports of products listed in the current tariff (Supreme Decree No. 16640). June 28. Imports of armaments and military supplies not produced domestically and intended for use by the Navy were exempted from the tax obligations of Decree-Law No. 16198 of February 16, 1979 (Supreme Decree No. 16685). July 11. Supreme Decree No. 16755 modified the import tariff for cargo vehicles (pickup trucks) and passenger vehicles (jeep-type vehicles and ambulances). The prohibition on imports was lifted for these vehicles but retained for all others. July 25. Imports of armaments and military supplies not manufactured in the country and intended for the use of the Armed Forces were exempted from the tax obligations of Decree-Law No. 16198 of February 16, 1979 (Supreme Decree No. 16891). September 18. Supreme Decree No. 17055 intro- duced, with effect from October 1, 1979, a 180-day prior import deposit at the rate of 500 per cent of the c.i.f. value of products corresponding to about 600 tariff positions. Among the products affected were codfish, lobsters, caviar, preserves, biscuits, cheese, confectionery, alimentary pastes, ecclesiastical wafers, coffee extract, sauces and condiments, prepared soups, wine, whiskey and other spirits, live cattle, perfumes, toilet soap, furs, wallpaper, writing paper, registry books, notebooks, albums, rugs, tapestry, neckties, shoes, hats, porcelain, crystal, fine pearls, silverware, flatirons, foodmixers, typewriters, calculators, exhaust and ventilator fans, shavers, hair dryers, water heaters, refrigerators, ovens, radios, television sets, motorcycles, eyeglasses, projec- tors, magnetic tape, accordions, musical instruments, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dance accessories, Christmas decorations, toys, and fire- arms. Some of the products mentioned in this decree were previously subject to a 120-day prior import deposit of either 5 per cent, 10 per cent, or 25 per cent (under Supreme Decrees Nos. 12929 and 12984 of October 3 and October 22, 1975 and under Supreme Decree No. 13707 of June 13, 1976). November 12. The Central Bank temporarily sus- pended purchases and sales of foreign exchange (see entry for November 30, below). November 30. Supreme Decree No. 17122 created the National Council on Monetary Policy, charged with studying proposals for monetary and financial policy measures and recommending their adoption to the Government. November 30. Supreme Decree No. 17123 pro- hibited banks and exchange houses from maintaining deposits on their own account, either abroad or locally, with foreign exchange provided by the Central Bank. Exporters of goods and services in both the public and private sectors continued to be subject to a 100 per cent surrender requirement of export proceeds less deductions for processing costs and royalties paid for in foreign exchange. The Central Government, local governments, state universities, decentralized agencies, state and mixed enterprises, social security agencies, and, in general, all public and private entities receiving public contributions, assistance, and subsidies continued to be prohibited from maintaining deposits or other assets in foreign exchange abroad or locally. New ceilings on short-term and medium-term foreign exchange liabilities of the banking system were adopted, as follows: (1) liabilities with terms up to one year, BOLIVIA US$75 million for private banks and US$25 million for state banks; (2) liabilities with terms greater than one year and up to five years, US$70 million for private banks and US$45 million for state banks. Ceilings for each bank would be determined by the Central Bank, and liabilities in excess of these limits would be subject to 100 per cent reserve requirement. The dollar value guarantee clause on peso-denominated savings and time deposits was eliminated. It was announced that the Central Bank and the banking system would honor the exchange rate guar- antees on these deposits within the first 15 days of March 1980. Also, banks registering foreign exchange assets in excess of foreign exchange liabilities were required to surrender the excess to the Central Bank at the rate of exchange at the time of acquisition, no later than December 30, 1979. November 30. The fixed exchange rate regime was replaced by a fluctuating rate system. The Central Bank resumed purchases and sales of foreign exchange and, in the opening quotation, the peso was devalued from $b 20.00 to $b 24.51 per US$1 buying, and from $b 20.40 to $b 25.00 per US$1 selling. November 30. Supreme Decree No. 17127 canceled the 500 per cent prior import deposit established by Supreme Decree No. 17055 of September 18, 1979. Supreme Decrees Nos. 12929 and 12984 of October 3 and October 22, 1975 and Supreme Decree No. 13707 of June 13,1976 were fully restored. November 30. Supreme Decree No. 17133 trans- ferred all the functions and facilities of the National Institute of External Finance (INDEF) from the Ministry of Finance to the Central Bank. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at P 1 = US$1.2679. At present, the Bank of Botswana (the central bank) quotes buying and selling margins of 0.125 per cent (US$0.00158) around this middle rate, although Botswana avails itself of wider margins of 2.25 per cent. On December 31, 1979 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were P 0.7877 and P 0.7897, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other Currencies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and Development Planning has delegated most of the administration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana. The latter, in turn, has delegated certain powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign countries must normally be made or received in a foreign cur- rency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. There are no bilateral payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are generally no import restrictions on goods moving be- tween the four countries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods imported directly into Bots- wana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits, regardless of the country of supply. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana, Malawi, and Rhodesia by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they are not intended for re-export; imports of Rhodesian beer, tobacco, and cigarettes are not permitted.2 Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be 1 Deutsche mark, South African rand, and pounds sterling. 3 The prohibition on imports of Rhodesian beer, tobacco, and cigarettes was removed with effect from January 1, 1980 (Botswana Government Gazette of January 25, 1980). received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account. For a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, permits are required before export is allowed. Payments for and Proceeds from invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits—such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel, which is the equivalent of P 3,000 in a calendar year for an adult and P 1,000 for a child. The allowance for business travel is P 130 a day. The annual limit on remittances by temporary residents is P 6,000 or 50 per cent of eligible salary, whichever is greater. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of domestic banknotes and coin, and take out P 75 in such banknotes and coin. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the maintenance of "Retained Accounts" at banks abroad for residents who make frequent foreign payments; these accounts are subject to ceilings. Capital Applications for outward transfers of capital are decided according to their merits, but are generally granted favorable consideration. The rulings on appli- cations for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is temporarily a resi- dent foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. There is a terminal allowance of P 6,000 for departing tem- porary residents. Changes during 1979 March 28. The common import surcharge levied by the customs union was reduced from 12.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. September 5. Several changes were introduced in Botswana's payments arrangements: (1) the basic ex- change allowance for tourist travel was raised to P 3,000 for an adult and P 1,000 for a child in a calendar year; (2) the allowance for business travel was increased from P 100 a day to P 130 a day; (3) the annual limit on remittances by temporary residents was raised from P 5,000 to P 6,000 or 50 per cent of eligible salary, whichever was greater; (4) full documentation in sup- port of applications for payments for imports was waived in respect of imports valued at less than P 100 (the limit had previously been P 50); and (5) the limit on remittances abroad through postal orders and money orders was raised from P 50 to P 75. 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Brazil is the Brazilian Cruzeiro. Since August 1968 Brazil has followed a flexible exchange rate policy by which the exchange rate for the Brazilian cruzeiro is adjusted at relatively short intervals in terms of its intervention currency, the U.S. dollar. These adjustments take into account (1) the movement in prices in Brazil relative to that in its main trading partners, (2) the level of foreign exchange reserves, (3) export performance, and (4) the overall balance of payments position.1 Exchange transactions are carried out by the Central Bank, the Bank of Brazil, the authorized banks, and the exchange houses. The exchange houses deal only in banknotes and travelers checks in a "manual market." Uniformity between the rates quoted by the monetary authorities and the effective rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authorities of standing ready to purchase exchange from the banks and to sell it to the banks at the official rate for approved transactions. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were Cr$42.330 and Cr$42.530, respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates are applicable to "agree- ment dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agree- ment countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the currencies concerned in New York and Europe. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which result in effective rates within 1 per cent on either side of the rates set by the monetary authorities. On the buying side, other effective rates result from the following arrangements: (1) the National Monetary Council can impose an export levy in the form of a tax at the rate of 10 per cent; this rate can be lowered or be raised up to 40 per cent; (2) special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below); (3) a 10 per cent levy ("con- tribution quota") is applied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products, except for those in respect of exports of sweetened cocoa powder contain- ing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake as raw material, for which the contribution quota is 5 per cent; (4) a contribution quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds from exports of raw hides of wild animals, and one of 5 per cent on proceeds from exports of tanned or processed hides of wild animals; (5) a contribution quota of 10 to 20 per cent, varying according to quality, is applied to proceeds from exports of quartz chips; and 1As a basis for the implementation of the minidevaluation policy, the Brazilian authorities on January 16, 1980 announced a target of 40 per cent for the devaluation of the cruzeiro vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar during 1980. (6) export taxes collected at the point of exchange settlement at the banks, in respect of a wide range of primary exports, including coffee. On the selling side, a different effective rate arises from the provision of the Foreign Investment Law, which specifies that the sum of net profits and dividends effec- tively remitted to persons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the average of actual remittances in any three-year period is in excess of 12 per cent of registered capital and reinvestment.2 The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a considerable proportion of all exchange transactions, including those of all public sector agencies. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Govern- ment at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction. Exchange transactions in the currencies of bilateral partner countries are effected by the authorized banks, which settle them with the Central Bank. Global limits are fixed for the authorized banks' bought and sold positions in foreign exchange. For the bought position the limit is US$500,000 for each bank. The limit on the sold position is fixed in relation to the capital and unencumbered reserves of each bank; a bank having capital and unencumbered reserves of up to Cr$150 million may maintain a sold position of up to US$500,000; over and above that amount a bank is allowed an overall sold position of up to US$5 million. Banks that are authorized to operate exclusively in the "manual market" and exchange houses are permitted to maintain a bought position of up to US$25,000 for each authorized branch, but may not maintain a sold position. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position and limited to 90 per cent of the exchange sold by the bank con- cerned to its customers during the same day or on the previous day; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other; transfers between branches of the same bank are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. Such trans- actions may be carried out either by cable on a spot basis or on a forward basis and must be executed within 2 working days for spot transactions or not later than after 180 days for forward transactions. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In 2 Also, on April 18, 1980 a 15 per cent tax was imposed on pur- chases of exchange for imports of goods and services. On May 8, 1980, by Central Bank Resolution No. 612, exemption from this tax was granted for a wide range of imports, including petroleum. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL accordance with the guidelines established by the Coun- cil, exchange control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DEC AM ), while the control over foreign capital is operated by the Department for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital (F IRCE ); the latter processes the registration of foreign capital. Certain borrowing abroad requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX), a board headed by the Minister of Finance, formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affa irs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions within Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exporta^ao and guias de impor- Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC). The Customs Policy Commission (CPA), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by the Secre- tariat for Control of State-Owned Enterprises (SEST). Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agree- ment countries 3 are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Brazil and the other central banks concerned, within the frame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA). Imports and Import Payments The import of commodities originating in or shipped from Cuba and Rhodesia is prohibited. CACEX has sus- pended the issuance of import licenses for a large number of "superfluous" imports. The importation of a small number of commodities is prohibited. There is also a limitation on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public and semipublic sector (direct organs of the Government, autonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participation). Also, the importation, 8 Bilateral accounts are maintained with Bulgaria, German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or special payments arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. 74 leasing, or purchasing in the domestic market by the public sector of machinery, equipment, vehicles, and spare parts of foreign origin is limited in 1980 to 80 per cent of the levels established for 1979. All other imports may be grouped into the follow- ing two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative doc- umentation, e.g., samples without commercial value and certain educational materials, and (2) imports that require an import certificate, which is issued sub- ject to the presentation of data on the foreign price of the commodity and other relevant information CACEX may require. Import certificates are issued on an f.o.b. basis. CACEX is authorized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 per cent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 90 days or 180 days, depending on the commodity (60 days for goods subject to price controls). For special bonded warehouse importers, CACEX establishes half-yearly foreign cur- rency quotas and issues clearance certificates based on these importers' semiannual import programs. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate may be obtained after the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. For certain other imports the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods imported by public bodies,4 imports for which tariff concessions are being sought, goods to be brought in with foreign financing with terms between 180 days and 360 days, certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fairs and trade exhibitions, and used instruments, machinery, and equipment. All importers must be registered with CACEX, and imports can be effected only by registered firms or persons. Importers are required to submit to CACEX a forecast of their expected import operations. The Minister of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance with the directives of the Economic Development Council (EDC) and without prejudice to commitments under LAFTA, authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where (1) imports are for speculative stock building purposes; (2) imports are causing or are threatening to cause serious damage to the national economy; or (3) imports originate in or are shipped from countries that impede Brazilian exports. Goods imported into the Manaus free zone are sub- ject to an annual quota. The transfer to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) of foreign goods origi- nally imported into the Manaus free zone is restricted to the equivalent of US$300 free of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- 4 Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the President, an annual invest- ment program incorporating their expected import requirements. In 1980 these imports are limited to 80 per cent of the amounts imported in 1979. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Central Bank, to cover its position for an amount equiva- lent to the value of the individual contract at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks. For some commodities, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares ever, CACEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of shipment, provided that no import duty concessions or other tax concessions are involved. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports of capital goods, intermediate products, raw materials, and other merchandise, regardless of the classification of the importer and the purpose of the merchandise, must be registered with the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy, before a request can be made for registration with FIRCE. Registration with FIRCE is also dependent on a ruling by CACEX that Brazilian firms are unable to supply the imports. Payment of the amount financed, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon pre- sentation of a certificate of authorization issued by the Central Bank. Prior to shipment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonfinanced amount may not exceed 20 per cent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled on maturity of the draft; this may take place 2 working days in advance of the maturity date if the exchange transfer is processed by telegram or telex, or 10 working days in advance if processed by air mail or check. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened. A deposit requirement equivalent to 100 per cent of the value of the exchange operation is applied, with some exceptions, to the con- tracting of forward exchange for the opening of letters of credit. Such deposits must be transferred to the Cen- tral Bank on the working day following the contracting of the exchange operation and are released on the date of settlement or the date of cancellation of the contract.5 Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Letters of credit for more than 360 days may be opened without prior closing of an exchange contract. Commercial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used in payment for the foreign exchange. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, PETRO- BRAS concludes for each import transaction an individual foreign exchange contract. At the same time, the Bank of Brazil concludes a foreign exchange contract with the 5 Imports exempt from the deposit requirement include beef, printing paper for newspapers, magazines and books, fertilizers, certain agri- cultural chemicals and related raw materials for their production, and goods imported into the Manaus free zone. Also exempt are imports authorized under drawback operations and imports of seeds and fruits for planting. BRAZIL terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. Remittances are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 25 per cent. However, the remitter is entitled to a rebate on the tax paid; dur- ing most of 1979 the rebate was 50 per cent of the tax, but in December it was raised to 95 per cent. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on remittances to persons and companies resident abroad of earnings on foreign capital (other than capital invested in Brazilian securities) if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For registered portfolio capital, the sup- plementary income tax is levied if remittances of divi- dends, bonuses, and capital gains in each fiscal year exceed 12 per cent of the registered investment. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for lux- ury consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of the registered capital. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 per cent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the for- eign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of net receipts f rom the sale or manufacture of the products. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank- notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate issued by CACEX to ensure compli- ance with exchange and trade regulations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of many commodities require prior approval of CACEX, while exports of speci- fied commodities, including certain primary products and raw materials required for domestic consumption, are prohibited or suspended and exports of certain other commodities are conditional on prior domestic sales. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by govern- ment agencies. Exports of certain commodities, includ- ing beef, are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the IBC. The IBC does not grant an authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the minimum registration 76 price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f.o.b.) fixed from time to time by the IBC for the various types of coffee, although discounts are also authorized. Exporters of coffee are required to surrender, without compensation, a portion of their foreign exchange proceeds in the form of a contribution quota which varies according to the type of coffee. The cruzeiro proceeds from the contribution quota are transferred to the Export Product Protection Fund for Coffee. The contribution quotas are set from time to time by the IBC and are fixed in terms of foreign currency; on December 31, 1979 they were US$147.00 for green or decaffeinated raw-hulled coffee (a bag of 60.5 kilograms) and for ground-roasted coffee (a bag of 48 kilograms), US$2.50 a pound for spray- dried soluble coffee, and US$2.45 a pound for freeze- dried soluble coffee. Exporters of coffee may convert foreign exchange proceeds, after deduction of the contribution quotas, at the prevailing official market rate. Thus, the proceeds received by coffee exporters depend on (1) the amount of the contribution quota, (2) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars), and (3) the official market rate of exchange. During 1979, the IBC con- tinued to make periodic announcements of new mini- mum registration prices, as well as contribution quotas for exports of soluble coffee and green, ground-roasted, and decaffeinated coffee. The foreign exchange proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, within the limits of the official market, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to surrender without compensation 10 per cent of their exchange pro- ceeds.6 The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and planta- tion improvement for cocoa. Furthermore, a contribu- tion quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds from exports of unprocessed hides of wild animals, 5 per cent on export proceeds from tanned or processed hides of wild animals, and 10 per cent to 20 per cent on export proceeds from quartz chips. A number of export incentives are in operation, prin- cipally for manufactured commodities. Various lines of credit for exporters, some at preferential rates of inter- est, are provided by the Bank of Brazil and the com- mercial banks. These financing facilities include both export financing and the financing of production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufactures. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insurance and by way of guarantees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the Bank of Brazil or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." 6 Only 5 per cent in the case of sugared cocoa powder containing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B r a z i l i an en terpr ises rende r ing services to tou r i s ts (e.g., hotels, res tau ran ts, travel agencies) may receive income tax rebates in propor t ion to th e ir ea rn ings f rom tou r i sm, p rov ided that the service is pa id for in fo re ign exchange and that the tou r i st en te rp r ise conver ts the exchange in to cruzeiros at the official rate.7 Travelers may b r i ng in domestic and fo re ign cu r rency notes f ree ly. Capital Capital inflows in the form of f inanc ial loans under Cen t ral Bank Resolution No. 63, as amended, or u n d er the prov is ion of the Foreign Inve s tment Law (L aw No. 4 1 3 1) are subject to ceilings and requ ire the p r ior approval of the Cen tral Bank. The prior approval of the Cen t ral Bank is requ ired for bo r row ing by the pub- l ic sector when the fo re ign f u n ds or ig ina te f rom o f f ic ial f in an c i al ins t i tu t ions abroad, for borrow ing by the p r i- vate sector, and when the transac t ion is to be gua ran- teed by the Na t ional Treasury or, on its beha l f, by any official credit ins t i tu t ion. Otherwise, inwa rd t rans fe rs are unres tr ic ted and free of con tro l, a l though the subse- quent u t i l i z a t i on of the proceeds for the acqu i s i t ion of ce r ta in domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inwa rd po r t fo l io inve s tmen t. For the purpose of r ep a t r i a t ion and the rem i t tance of income, however, inw a rd t ran s fe rs of fo re ign cap i tal and the re inves tment of profits on fo re ign cap i tal must be registered w i th F IRCE. Foreign cap i tal is def ined for t h is purpose as ( 1) goods, mach ine ry, and e q u i pm e nt to be used to produce goods or to render services which have entered the coun t ry w i thout an i n i t i al correspond ing exp end i tu re of fore ign exchange and (2) financial and mone ta ry resources brought in to the coun t ry for invest- ment in economic pu r su i t s, provided tha t, in e i ther case, the owner is a person or f i rm res ident or dom ic i led abroad or w i th headqua r te rs abroad. Foreign cap i tal other than capital invested in B r a z i l i an securities is classified, for purposes of reg is tra t ion, as direct inves tmen ts or loans, whe ther impor ted in the fo rm of money or of goods, and it inc ludes reinvested profits f rom fore ign capital. Direct inv e s tm ent is def ined as th at fo re ign capital wh ich cons t i tu tes pa rt of the corporate cap i tal and pa r t ic ipa tes d i r e c t ly in the risk inhe rent in an economic unde r tak ing. Foreign cap i tal that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is considered to be a loan. Any loan ob ta ined to pu r- chase cap i tal goods abroad, whe ther contracted by the m a n u f a c t u r er himself or by a t h i rd par ty, is considered to be financing (mos t ly supp l iers' c r ed i t ). Foreign- owned companies may convert foreign loans in to non- vo t ing e q u i ty capital if the loans were registered w i th the Central Bank before December 31, 1978. App l ica- t i o ns mu st have been lodged by December 31, 1979. Persons dom ic i led or resident abroad may make port- fo l io inves tmen ts in B raz i l ian comme rc ial and i n d u s t r i al 7 App l i c a t ion of the r e l ev ant Decree-Law No. 1587 of December 20, 1977 is s t i ll p e n d i ng im p l em e n t i ng regu la t ion s. BRAZIL secu r i t ies, provided th at t ransac t ions are channeled th rough a B r a z i l i an inves tment company" and are effected on B r a z i l i an stock exchanges. Such cap i tal is sub ject to reg i s t ra t ion w i th the Central Bank and must r em a in in the coun t ry for at least two years, fo l low ing wh ich repa t r ia t ion may be effected free of income taxes at an average rate of up to 20 per cent every six months. The m i n im um pa r t ic ipa t ion in po r t fo l io inves tment com- pan ies by fo re ign firms or ind iv idua ls is US$1,000. For financial imports and for investments made in the f o rm of goods, the reg is tra t ion is in the currency of the c o u n t ry of dom ic i le of the c red i tor or investor (or of its head off ice) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the c o u n t ry of o r ig in of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in fore ign currency it is necessary to ce r t i fy that the interest rate corresponds to t h at p r ev a i l ing in the o r ig inal market of the loan, that the amo r t iza t ion schedule is not d ispropor t iona te ly heavy in the ea r ly stages of repaymen t, and, in the case of impo rt financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the c o u n t ry of o r i g i n. If the terms of financing are approved, CACEX exam ines the applications for some fo re ign bo r row ing in the l ight of the price and essen- t i a l i ty of the proposed impo rt and of the a v a i l a b i l i ty of s a t i s f a c t o ry domestic equ iva len ts. Cap i tal e n t e r i ng B raz il is registered in fo r e ign cur- rency. R e inv e s tm en ts are defined as p ro f i ts of com- pan ies established in B r a z il and acc ru ing to persons or compan ies resident or domiciled abroad. Such profits mu st have been reinvested in the same compan ies that produced them or in ano ther sector of the B raz i l ian economy. The reg i s t ra t ion of reinvested prof i ts is made s im u l t a n e o u s ly in B r a z i l i an cu r rency and in the cu r rency of the c o u n t ry to wh i ch the p ro f i ts could have been rem i t ted. The conve rs ion is calculated at the average exchange ra te p r e v a i l i ng between the date on which the p ro f i ts appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the da te of t h e ir re inves tmen t. Special regu la t ions govern bo r row ing abroad. Under C e n t r al Bank Reso lu t ion No. 63, as amended, p r iva te comme rc ial and inve s tment banks and the Na t ional B ank for Economic Development may be authorized to t a ke up fo r e ign cu r r en cy credits abroad for domestic r e l end ing for purposes of financing wo rk ing capital. Safeguards aga in st excessive use of sucn cred i ts inc lude l im i t a t i o ns on the fo re ign ob l iga t ions that each bank may assume ( re la ted to the terms of the cred it and the size of the b a n k) and the provision that the u l t ima te borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Cen t ral Bank assures the av a i l ab i l i ty of cover for the repa t r ia t ion of the loan at m a tu r i ty. All other financial loans in fo re i jn cu r rency are effected under the general p rov is ions of the Foreign Inves tment Law (Law No. 4 1 3 1 ). Loans und er th is law also requ i re prior Cen t ral Bank au tho r iza t ion, but the Cen tral Bank does not und e r t ake to provide exchange cover for them. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Loans under Resolution No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a m i n im um term of eight years but no m ax imum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to mandatory deposit at the Central Bank. The deposit is applicable to 100 per cent of the loan pro- ceeds converted into cruzeiros and it is released, as follows: 20 per cent w i th in 150 days, 40 per cent in 180 days, and the balance in 210 days.8 In addition to these mandatory deposit regulations, on June 23, 1977 the Central Bank authorized vo lun- tary deposits at the Central Bank by financial and non- financial ins t i tu t ions of the ou ts tand ing balances of the ir foreign loans with a provision that the operation could be reversed a f ter 30 days. For as long as the deposit remains with the Central Bank, the Central Bank covers all costs on these loans, inc lud ing the exchange cost. As part of the measures announced on December 7, 1979, these provisions were modified as follows: ( 1) existing vo lun ta ry deposits at the Central Bank in respect of nonfinancial loans (under Law No. 4131) were frozen for an indef in i te period, except for funds required for related interest and amortization payments, for trans- formation of such loans into direct investment or, in certain special cases, depending upon the approval of the Central Bank; and (2) a mandatory wa i t ing period of 180 days was established for the withdrawal of deposits made in the Central Bank under Resolution No. 63. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quan t i ta- tive limits on the amount of financial loans for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if ma tur i t ies conform w i th m in imum requirements established from time to t ime by the Cen- tral Bank, which permits the total of loans ou ts tand ing to rise only to the extent that the servicing comm i tmen ts on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart f rom the guidelines set by the National Monetary Coun- cil. At the end of 1979 the Central Bank's m i n im um acceptable ma tu r i ty was at eight years. However, pro- vided that the fu ll amount of the fore ign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the m i n im um specified ma tur i ty, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final ma tu r i ty of the debt abroad and these f u n ds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization by DECAM and FIRCE, which consider applications on their merits. Approved exchange trans- actions involving outward transfers of private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at the prevailing official market rate. * On J a n u a ry 16, 1980 the requ i rement was mod if ied as regards borrowing by private enterprises: only 75 per cent of the loan proceeds is to be deposited w i th the Cen tral B ank; one th i rd of the deposit is released w i t h in 60 days, one t h i rd in 90 days, and the balance in 120 days. 78 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in Brazil. Gold m in ing is conducted under Law No. 4425 of October 8, 1964. Residents other than the mone ta ry authorities and licensed industrial users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold abroad (other than alloys for dental use) unless special per- mission is obtained from the Central Bank. The mone- tary authorities do not deal in gold. The domestic nego- t i a t ion of newly mined gold, which takes place at free ma rket prices, is subject to a m in ing tax of 1 per cent. The m in ing tax may be offset against the other tax l iab i l i t ies if and when gold is manufactured. The import of gold is subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX; imports of native gold and of gold in the fo rm of powder are free of customs duty. Exports of gold coin and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler) requires an export certificate. Changes during 1979 January 22. The existing import prohibition on cer- ta in luxu ry goods was extended until December 31, 1979 (CACEX Communication No. 79 /3 ). January 24. The National Monetary Council an- nounced, with immediate effect, the following mea- sures: ( 1) an immediate reduction of the advance import deposit requirement from 100 per cent to 90 per cent, together with a scheduled phasing out of the requirement at a semiannual rate of 10 percentage points, to end by June 1983; (2) a 10 per cent reduc- tion of the tax credits (in respect of federal and state value-added taxes) given to exporters of manufactured goods, together with a plan to phase out these tax credits at a quarterly rate of 5 per cent beginning on March 30, 1979 and ending on June 30, 1983; (3) as an offset to the expected effects of the two preceding measures, an acceleration of the rate of minidevaluation by an additional rate of 4.5 per cent (in terms of cru- zeiros per foreign currency) in any 12-month period un t il June 30, 1983; and (4) as an incentive to inward direct investment, foreign-owned companies might con- vert foreign loans into nonvoting equity capital. February 14. The minimum financing period for imports of certain types of capital goods was extended from five to eight years (Central Bank Circular No. 416). April 18. The restrictions on the domestic monetiza- tion of foreign loan funds were tightened, as follows: 50 per cent of the proceeds of the loan borrowed by a private sector enterprise was to remain frozen in the Central Bank un t il amortization payments were under- taken; from then on the deposit would be refunded in proportion to the payments. The other 50 per cent of the proceeds of the loan would be refundable in stages, i.e., 10 per cent after 150 days, 20 per cent after an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution additional waiting period of 30 days, and the rema in ing 20 per cent af ter a fur ther period of 30 days. June 21. The National Monetary Council announced certain exemptions to the 50 per cent mandatory deposit on foreign borrowing; in addition to borrowings by offi- cial entities, the exemptions included loans f rom inter- national organizations. November 29. The National Monetary Council reduced the contribution quotas on export proceeds from quartz chips from 20 per cent and 40 per cent to 10 per cent and 20 per cent. December 7. In combination with a 30 per cent devaluation of the cruzeiro vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar, the authorities announced a package of external and i n t e r n al measures. On the external side the measures comprised (without any legislative change ): (1) abolition of the tax credits relating to exports of manufac tured products; (2) suspension of the prevailing advance import deposit requirement; (3) suspension of the deposit requirement for purposes of foreign travel; (4) reduction of the scope of the system of "national similars"; (5) limita- BRAZIL t ion of public sector non-oil imports to 80 per cent of the foreign exchange value of imports in the preceding year; (6) reduction from 12.5 per cent to 1.25 per cent in the income tax on remittances of interest earnings on fore ign loans; (7) elimination of the 50 per cent deposit requirement pend ing amortization for new external loans and confirmation of the temporary compulsory freezing scheme of 150, 180, and 210 days for conversion of external loans into cruzeiros, applicable to 100 per cent of the loan proceeds; (8) imposition of a 180-day freeze on the vo lun ta ry deposits w i th the Central Bank of the proceeds f rom foreign borrowing by domestic banks (i.e., loans under Resolution No. 63 ); (9) imposition of an inde f in i te freeze on the vo lun tary deposits with the Central Bank of the proceeds f rom foreign borrowing by nonbanks (i.e., loans under Law No. 4131 ), except for funds required for related interest and amortization payments for transformation of such loans into direct investments, or, in special cases, depending upon the approval of the Central Bank; and (10) introduction of new export taxes on pr imary products, inc lud ing coffee. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Burma is the Burmese Kyat, which is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 = SDR 1. Burma applies margins of 2 per cent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the da i ly calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 6.454 and K 6.5831, respectively, per US$1. Buy- ing and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, and the Netherlands guilder are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the New York mar- ket; buying and selling rates for the Hong Kong dollar and the Malaysian ringgit are determined weekly on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Hong Kong and Kuala Lumpur markets, respectively; and buy ing and selling rates for other currencies are based on appropriate cross rates in local markets (e.g., Bombay, for the Indian rupee). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, in accordance with instructions f rom the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of P lann ing and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange to the public sector. Prescription of Currency Burma has no bilateral payments agreements. Certain settlements w i th Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settlements w i th India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that coun try. Pay- ments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by international organiza- tions, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents, subject to approval by the Exchange Control Board. Such accounts are normally held in deutsche mark, Ind ian rupees, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely but no interest is payable on them. Foreign nationals temporarily resident 80 in Burma are entitled to hold foreign exchange utiliza- tion cards for use in diplomatic shops. Nonresidents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. imports and import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Also prohibited are imports of a few com- modities f rom any source —principally opium and other narcotics, monkeys, p lay ing cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion. An impo rt program is prepared annua l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the M in is t ry of P lann ing and Finance. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the Myanma Export-Import Corporation (ME IC ). The MEIC imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are estimated by the Central Trade Council. In general, government agencies and departments import goods for the ir own use, inc lud ing imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC.1 Most imports are purchased on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. Payments for invisibles All payments for inv is ib les are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or tech- nical in s t i tu t ions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only for fore ign technicians employed under contract by the Government, the l im it being one half of the net salary if the w i fe is l iv ing abroad, and one th ird of the net salary if the w i fe is l iv ing in Burma. Remittances of insu rance payments are considered on a case-by-case basis. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Government as Burmese nationals but took up foreign c i t izensh ip before depar ture f rom Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents who 1 In J a n u a ry 1980, state t r a d i ng corporations, wh i ch no rm a l ly are allowed to apply for foreign exchange permits only up to 30 per cent of th e ir annu al allocation d u r i ng the f irst q u a r t er of the fiscal year and an add i t ional SO per cent in the second q u a r t er but have usua l ly been limited to a m a x im um of 80 per cent of the amount budgeted for the whole year, were authorized to utilize the ou ts tand ing 20 per cent of the total fore ign exchange allocation for the fiscal year 1979/80. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution have been granted an official permit to travel abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case-by- case basis. Travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection with state scholarships. Otherwise, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conver- sion of foreign currency. The export of Burmese cur- rency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports com- prising iron and steel, brass, copper, and a lum inum and scrap thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin which need to be conserved for domestic requirements. Exports are generally effected by the MEIC, although timber, rubber, jute, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by other government agencies and departments. Rice is exported by the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation in the name of the MEIC. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities and surrendered to the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within six months from the date of shipment. Certain exports are subsidized through the Export Price Equalization Fund Account. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who BURMA in tend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. Capital In principle, investment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee to ascertain whether the pro- posed enterprise w i ll utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign ex- change, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Government. However, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma since 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the mak ing of f am i ly remittances have been suspended, w i th m inor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may remit the ir personal savings when leaving the service. When the t rans fer abroad of payments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to external accounts in kyats. All debits and credits to these accounts require prior permission. The import, export, and transfer of securities invo lv ing nonresident interests require ind iv idual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for im- ports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the tak ing out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Bu rundi is the Bu rundi Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at FBu 90.00 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1979 were FBu 89.55 and FBu 90.45, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) quotes buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc based on its fixed rates for the U.S. dollar and the official market rates for the U.S. dollar in Brussels. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with quotations based on either the quoted rates for the Belgian franc and the official mar- ket rates in Brussels for the currencies concerned or, for the Kenya shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the zaire, on their official values in terms of SDRs. For the Tan- zania shilling the rate quoted is based on the Bank of Tanzania's rate for the U.S. dollar. The Rwanda franc is also officially quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi at the rate of FBu 96.94 per RF 100, the official buying and selling rates being FBu 96.45 and FBu 97.43, respectively, per RF 100. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic for currencies quoted by that Bank. A charge of 2 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with neighboring countries including Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, and Zaire are effected through special clearing accounts with the Bank of the Republic. With this exception, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic, by (1) physical persons of foreign nationality, such as diplomats, who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not considered as residents, and (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely 1 Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and zaires. 82 with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal cur- rent payments in Burundi and for conversion into for- eign exchange (except banknotes). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the Bank of the Republic. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Republic and is restricted to ( 1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) juridical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs for any payments in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Bu rundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale, whose declared consumer value c. & f. Bujumbura is FBu 50,000 or less, require licenses; these licenses are generally issued freely, but importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are adequate or that are produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic through an authorized bank. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amounts under FBu 500,000 are approved by the authorized banks. A license is valid for 12 months starting on the first day of the month following its validation. An administra- tive tax amounting to 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the goods is collected at the time of validation of the license. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by the approved Burundi insurer (SOCABU) and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consign- ments of imports exceeding FBu 500,000 in value are subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality, quantity, packing, and price comparison by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva act- ing for the Burundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made available ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution until after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Ship- ping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with SOCABU. Upon payment of taxes, transfers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permitted at the uniform rate of 60 per cent of net annual income. Private joint-stock companies may freely and immediately transfer a portion of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors not exceeding 50 per cent of the profits for the budget year, net of corporation tax. The balance of the profits may be transferred subsequently, depend- ing on the savings made in Burundi by those concerned. However, enterprises that have obtained approved status under the Investment Code may obtain a guarantee of full transferability of net declared profits. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental properties to nonresident owners of foreign nationality is permitted up to 50 per cent of net rental income (af ter payment of taxes and deduction of 20 per cent for maintenance expenses). Amounts not remitted immedi- ately may be transferred subsequently, depending on the length of time the savings were held in Burundi. Resi- dent owners of foreign nationality may remit the same proportion of such income. Residents of Burundi nation- ality may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. There is no fixed limit on the amount that may be allocated, which depends on the nature of the travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank- notes. In addition, residents may freely purchase for- eign travel tickets, up to reasonable amounts, against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. All exports valued at over FBu 5,000 are sub- ject to a prior declaration. The declaration must be presented for certification by the Bank of the Republic through an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days after the goods have left the country, when they are sold to neighboring countries or to Kenya, Malawi, Uganda, or Zambia, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destinations. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Exports of arabica and robusta coffee and of cattle, sheep, and goatskins are the monopoly of the Burundi Coffee Company and of Burundi Tanneries, respec- tively. Virtually all exports, including coffee, are sub- BURUNDI ject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of manufac tured goods may receive a refund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. A new Investment Law, adopted on April 4, 1979, revised some of the investment procedures. Under the Investment Code new investments that fulfill speci- fied conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privi- leges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manufacturing opera- tion or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended. Enterprises granted priority status may obtain protection against foreign competition, priority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guaran- tee from the Bank of the Republic for the free transfer of profits and dividends and the repatriation of the invested capital. In addition to these privileges, com- panies undertaking investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic develop- ment may be granted, under a separate convention, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An investment commission under the Ministry of Planning is charged with examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. In addition, under the new law, Burundi guarantees each foreign investor freedom of settlement; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials and products abroad as well as for the repay- ment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, as does foreign capital on which a repa- triation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises for working capital purposes, in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic, and is valid for a one-year period, which is renewable. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate ruling on the day of transfer. Under the new law, Burundi also guarantees the repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Gold Dealings in gold coin must be conducted through the Bank of the Republic, since all private dealing in gold is prohibited. The Bank purchases unrefined gold from domestic producers at FBu 500 a gram. Af ter refining abroad, this gold is included in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the Bank of the Republic, with the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1979 January 2. The rate of permissible transfer for earn- ings of foreign nationals, which formerly varied from 18 per cent to 60 per cent of net annual income depend- ing on the amount of such income, was made uniform at 60 per cent. April 4. A new Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 1/8) was adopted, which revised certain investment pro- cedures. Under the new law, Burundi guaranteed free- dom of settlement; foreign investors were assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials and products abroad, as well as for the repayments of loans taken out for investment purposes; the repatriation of invested capital was also guaranteed in the event of sale or shutdown of the business. 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of those relating to gold, Came- roon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the former French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized inter- mediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Planning, while the arrangements for domiciliation of exports require the visa of the M in is try of Finance. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. 1The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. All settlements between Cameroon and Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. The import from all sources of certain "con- trolled" goods requires a special authorization (automa- tion speciale d* importation), in addition to an import license. All other imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to licensing when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents have been submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the M in is try of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely, subject to declaration, when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Came- roon must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in principle, to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation pur- poses, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are norma l ly limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on fam i ly status, the t rans fer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON wo rk ing in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place w i th in one month of the pay period con- cerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporar i ly, payments of insurance premiums to foreign countries are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the former French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC banknotes. Travelers to other countries of the former French Franc Area may, subject to prior declara- tion, take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration were made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation arrangements requ ir ing the visa of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be collected w i th in 30 days of the date of arrival at their destination, and proceeds received in currencies, other than those of France or an Operations Account country, must be surrendered w i th in a month af ter collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected w i th in a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the former French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to coun- tries outside the former French Franc Area may transfer abroad their fu ll savings, provided that they have met the ir tax obligations. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained 86 over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign securities, fore ign exchange, and titles embody- ing claims on nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized intermediary, whether they belong to resi- dents or nonresidents. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon3 require prior declara- tion to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cameroon requires only reporting to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroonian investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or sub- 2 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. 3 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution sidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or sub- sidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans con- stituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between fore ign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 established four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and dura- tion of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its im- portance to national economic growth. Category A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufacturing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from CAMEROON va r ious other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the na ture and extent of tax concessions are determined. An "establishment agreement" is no rma l ly valid for 25 years and defines the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial transfers and ma rke t ing of goods. Category D enables firms mak ing investments of particular significance to the national economy to enjoy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Ordinance No. 73/27 of August 30, 1973 provided that public entities should hold at least one th ird of the share capital of each bank ing ins t i tu t ion and that the head- quarters of each b ank ing ins t i tu t ion should be in Cameroon. This ord inance also required banks with foreign m a jo r i ty participation to subm it to the monetary authorities information on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the s truc ture of their equ i ty holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is norma l ly given on ly to indus tr ial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this require- ment are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of Canada is the Canad ian Dollar. The a u t h o r i t i es of Canada do not m a i n t a in ma rg ins in respect of exchange transac t ions, and exchange rates are de te rm ined on the basis of demand and supp ly condi- t i o ns in the exchange m a rk e t; however, the au tho r i t ies i n t e r v e ne f rom t ime to t ime to m a in t a in orderly con- d i t i o ns in th at m a rk e t. The p r inc ipal in te rven t ion cu r- rency is the U.S. do l l a r. The closing i n t e r b a nk m a r k et ra te for the U.S. do l lar on December 31, 1979 was Can$1 .1666 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are s i m i l a r ly de te rm ined in the ma rket and it is not the practice of the au thor i t ies to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Impo rt licenses are required only for certain drugs, a few a g r i c u l t u r al items, certain textile products, clothing, and footwear, ce r ta in endangered species of f auna and flora, n a tu r al gas, and material and equ ipment for the produc t ion or use of atomic energy. For some agr icu l- t u r al items, such as certain da i ry products, licenses are gene ra l ly not being issued. Commercial imports of ce r ta in commodities f rom any source are tightly con- t ro l led; these inc lude oleomargarine, used automobiles, secondhand a i rc ra f t, and certain periodicals. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds f rom exports is not requ i red, and exchange receipts are free ly disposable. For supp ly reasons, the export of a few commodities to all des t ina t ions is under export control. These inc lude c rude petroleum, cer ta in petroleum products, and n a tu r al gas, most of which are sold to the United States. For secu r i ty reasons, there is export control on strategic goods to all des t ina t ions except the United States. All exports to A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, the People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- l ic and East Be r l in, Hunga ry, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Po land, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are subject to control, a l though certain goods of Canad ian o r ig in may be exported to these des t ina t ions under the a u t h o r i ty of a general export pe rm i t. In addition, cer- t a in goods of a commercial n a tu re are subject to con- t rol for supp ly and d i s t r ibu t ion purposes (e.g., specialty steel and beef to the Un i ted States and blood products to all coun t r ies ). 88 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requ i remen ts are imposed on exchange payments fo r, or exchange receipts f r om, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on c a p i t al receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. A p a rt f rom specific restrictions in the financial, broad- casting, and u r a n i um sectors, inward direct investment is governed by the Foreign Investment Review Act. Th is s t ipu la tes that the acqu is i t ion of control over a C a n a d i an bus iness enterprise by persons other than Canad ian s, or the establishment of a new business by such persons not previously established in Canada, or whose proposed new business is unrelated to the ir exist- ing business in Canada, w i ll be allowed if it is assessed that such investments are of significant benefit to Canada. A Foreign Investment Review Agency is charged w i th the review of proposed takeovers and the screening of the establishment of new businesses. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inwa rd or outward portfolio investment. Gold Res iden ts may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products con ta in ing gold to countries named in the Area Control List requ i re an export pe rm it f rom the Minister of Industry, Trade, and Com- merce und er the authority of the Export and Import Pe rm i ts Act. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles containing m inor quan- t i t ies of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins w i th a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, con ta in ing 1 ounce of gold, have also been issued, beg inn ing in 1979. Changes during 1979 January 1. Canada extended most-favored-nation t r e a tm ent to Jo rdan and the Mariana Islands. The list of benef ic iar ies of the General Preferential Tariff was extended to inc lude the Caroline Islands, Jordan, the M a r i ana Islands, the Marshall Islands, N iu e, and the Tokelau Islands. At the same time, St. Pierre and M ique lon were w i thd rawn f rom the list of beneficiaries. January 1. The global quotas on clothing were replaced by ind iv idual export restraint arrangements w i th the People's Republic of Ch ina, Hong Kong, Korea, the Philippines, Poland, and Roman ia. These arrange- ments covered a number of textile and clothing items and would extend un t il December 31, 1981. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 26. A restraint arrangement on acrylic yarn was signed with Brazil under the International Textiles Agreement for the period January 1, 1979 to Decem- ber 31, 1980. May 12. The restraint arrangement on textiles and clothing with the People's Republic of China was extended to December 31, 1981. May 15. A textile agreement between Japan and Canada for 1978 and 1979 was signed. July 1. A range of customs duty concessions that were to expire on June 30, 1979 were extended through June 30, 1980. The concessions applied to commodities used for specified purposes in Canada and were to be effected in the form of drawbacks equivalent to 66.66 per cent or 99 per cent of the import duty. Moreover, exemptions were extended to customs duties applied to most commodities imported from most-favored nations through June 1980. July 1. The minimum value of imports not subject to Canadian customs was increased from Can$200 to Can$500. July 12. As a result of the Multilateral Trade Nego- tiations (MTN ), it was announced that tariffs on indus- trial imports would be lowered to about 9-10 per cent, a reduction of about 40 per cent from previous levels. The smallest reductions applied to textiles, clothing, footwear, and ships. August 31. The Canadian Textile and Clothing Board announced its intention to conduct a review of the pre- vailing measures of protection in order to decide whether they should be maintained, modified, or removed after 1981 (see entry for November 23, below). September 4. The annual import quota for cheese was continued at 45 million pounds for 1979. The quota for April 1-December 31, 1979 was set at 33.75 million pounds. September 6. A new gold coin, the Maple leaf (con- taining 1 ounce of gold), was issued by Canada. The CANADA Canadian Mint was authorized to produce one million of these coins dur ing 1979 and two million a year in 1980 and 1981. September 12. A restraint arrangement with Bulgaria on clothing imports covering January 1, 1979-Decem- b e r31, 1981 was signed. September 15. A restraint arrangement with Macao for the period January 1, 1979 to December 31, 1981 was signed. September 29. The restraint arrangement with Singa- pore on clothing imports covering the period July 1, 1979-June 30, 1982 was formally ratified. October 9. The global quota on double-knit fabrics was eliminated. October 19. A restraint arrangement with Hungary on imports of ready-made suits f rom January 1, 1979 to December 31, 1981 was signed. October 22. An import quota on chicken was estab- lished in support of a supply management program. The quota for 1979 was set at 45 million pounds, prorated over the period October 22-December 31, 1979, and would continue in the calendar year 1980 at 48.5 m i l l ion pounds. October 24. The restraint arrangement with Sri Lanka on clothing imports covering the period Ju ly 1, 1979- December 31, 1981 was formally ratified. November 18. A restraint arrangement with Paki- stan on imports of terry towels from July 1, 1979 to December 31, 1981 was signed. November 23. The Textile and Clothing Board announced its intention to proceed with an inquiry rather than the review procedures announced on August 31, 1979. December 17. The MTN nontariff agreements were signed. December 28. All sanctions against Rhodesia, pre- viously established in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council Resolutions, were lifted. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of cur- rencies representing 11 impor tant trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed da i ly on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 38.017 and C.V. Esc 38.609, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the Directorate of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRECC), which is a department of the central bank, the Bank of Cape Verde. All imports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc. 2,500. Foreign exchange transactions, inc lud ing the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the central bank. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with Angola, Gu inea- Bissau, and Sao Tome and Principe. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited on ly w i th the proceeds from the sale or receipt of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obli- gations in Cape Verde. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in fore ign currency and in local currency. imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the M i n i s t ry of Economic Coord ina t ion, requ ire the visa of the cen tral bank and are generally va l id for 180 days, but are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license is approved by the central bank. Licenses are granted liberally for imports of medi- cines, capital goods, and other development-related equ ipmen t. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authorization. Transfers for tourism are limited to a max imum of 90 C.V. Esc 6,000 a person a year (C.V. Esc 3,000 for ch i ld ren under 15). When traveling accompanied by his fam i ly, a resident of Cape Verde may take out in foreign currency the equivalent of C.V. Esc 6,000 plus C.V. Esc 4,000 for each f am i ly member under 15, but the total transfer for each fam i ly may not exceed the equ iva lent of C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals going on tourist trips abroad are required to buy round- t r ip tickets in advance and have to make a deposit equ iva lent to a one-way ticket to the country of destina- t ion. This deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals s tudy ing abroad are a l lowed up to a max imum of C.V. Esc 6,000 on leaving the coun try, and students who do not hold scholarships are, in add i t ion, entitled to C.V. Esc 5,000 a mon th. The equ iva lent of C.V. Esc 20,000 is authorized for each business t r ip and C.V. Esc 15,000 a t r ip for medical trea tmen t; these latter amounts may be increased upon presentation of evidence of need. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel wo rk ing in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the ind iv idual contracts. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may b r ing in any amount of foreign currency but may re-export only the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Export proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of Cape Verdean banknotes is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the DRECC, but legally impor ted capital may be re-exported w i thout l im i ta t ion. The export of resident-owned cap i tal is not no rma l ly perm i t ted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coin or bars require p r ior licensing by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1979 No s ign if icant changes took place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange System The currency of the Central A f r ican Repub l ic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque des Etats de TA f r ique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1 free of commission. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other foreign currencies are also o f f i c i a l ly posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, the Central A f r ican Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. All d ra ft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the M in is ter of Finance, who has delegated his approval au thor i ty to the Director of the Budget. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the M in i s t ry of F inance supervises borrowing and lend ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in the Cen tral A f r ican Republic, and inwa rd and outward direct invest- ment. Exchange control is administered by the M in is ter of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval au thor i ty to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are issued by the BEAC. iThe CFA franc circulating in the Central A fr ican Republic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, and Gabon. -The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to ( 1) the control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) the control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. Prescription of Currency Since the Cen t ral A f r i c an R e p u b l ic is an Opera t ions Account coun t ry, se t t lemen ts w i th France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies are made in CFA f ranc s, French f rancs, or the cu r rency of any o ther i n s t i t u te of issue th at m a i n t a i ns an Opera- t ions Account w i th the French T reasu ry. Settlements w i th a ll o ther coun t r i es a re u sua l ly made in any of the currencies of those coun t r ies or in French f rancs t h r o u gh Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations p e r t a i n i ng to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. The p r i n c i p al nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC bankno tes received by the fo re ign corresponden ts of authorized banks and ma i led to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque Cen tra le des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited free ly to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments A ll impor ts from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are suspended. The impo rt f rom a ll coun t r ies of a few commod i t ies that are also produced domes- t ica l ly is proh ib i ted. The impo rt of ce r ta in foods tu f fs is not au tho r ized un less local p roduc t ion of these com- modities is in ad equ a t e. Impo r ts of ce r ta in goods, when not o r i g i n a t i ng in a member coun t ry of the Cen t ral A f r i c an Customs and Economic U n i on (UDEAC ), may be made on ly in g iven ratios to purchases of the local produc t. The impo rt of firearms is p roh ib i ted irrespec t ive of o r ig in. All other impo r ts f rom coun- t r ies in the fo rm er French Franc Area may be made f ree ly and w i t h o ut an import license. A ll other impo r ts f r om EC coun t r ies ( the o r ig in al member states) also a re free f rom q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ions. Impo r ts f r om a ll coun t r ies outside the fo rmer French F ranc Area are subject to l icens ing w i t h in the f r am ewo rk of an a n n u al impo rt program. A ll impo rt t r an s a c t ions r e l a t ing to fo re ign coun t r ies mu st be dom ic i led w i th an au tho r ized b a n k. The impo rt license en t i t les impo r te rs to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the s h i p p i ng docu- men ts are subm i t t ed to the au tho r ized b a n k. There has been some accrual of arrears on ex te rnal p a ym e n ts ow ing to the impo s i t ion of s t a t u t o ry ce i l ings on c en t r al b a nk c red it to the Gov e rnm ent and an e n s u i ng shortage of domestic cu r rency w i th wh ich to purchase fo r e ign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les to France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r i es are pe rm i t ted f ree ly; those to other coun t r ies are sub- ject to approva l. For m a ny types of payment the 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are perm i t ted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Trans- fers of income accru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists trave l ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains af ter re tu rn to the Central Afr ican Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed coun- tries; the allocation for business travel to any other fore ign coun t ry is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip; of th is allocation, an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. The t rans fer of the entire net salary of a foreigner work ing in the Central Afr ican Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the t rans fer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BE AC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out fore ign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on en try; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC bankno tes in to foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the former French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside th is area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated w i th in one month from the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days a f ter the a r r ival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. 92 Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected w i th in a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered w i th in a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the former French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central Afr ican Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r i c an Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those controls over the sale or in troduc t ion of foreign securities in the Central A f r ican Republic, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as cons t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting :{Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central A f r i c an Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central A f r ican Republic. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under fore ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central A f r ican Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the M in i s ter has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the declara- tion du r ing which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central A f r ican Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in the Central A f r ican Republic. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central A f r ican Republic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the M in is ter within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment; provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r ican Republic requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issu ing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central A f r i c an Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id i c al persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central A f r ican Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central A f r ican Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom th is authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central A f r i c an Republic and countries abroad or between fore ign countries, in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans con- tracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstand- ing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic or juridical persons CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC whose registered office is abroad, requires pr ior authori- za t ion by the M i n i s t er of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom th is au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans gran ted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount ou ts tand ing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. The m a k i ng of loans that are free of au thor iza t ion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations w i t h in 20 days of the operation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, indu s t r i a l, tourist, ag r i cu l tu r a l, and m i n i ng enterprises (bo th fore ign and domestic) established in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Repub l ic are granted, under certain cond i t ions, a reduc t ion in duties and taxes on the import of specified equ ipmen t; in add i t ion, certain enterprises receive exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of pref- e ren t ial treatment in accordance w i th wh ich f iscal and o ther privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of ex is t ing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferen t ial trea tment must be subm i t ted to the M in i s ter of Indus t ry, who is the C h a i rm an of the Inves tment Commission which considers the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed au tho r iza t ion is subm i t ted to the Council of Ministers. P re fe ren t ial trea tmen ts A and C are gran ted by decree issued by the Counc il of M in is ters. P re fe ren t ial treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the fo rmer Equa tor ial Customs Un ion upon the recommenda t ion of the Counc il of M in is te rs. Gold Res iden ts are free to hold, acqu ire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in the Cen tral A f r i c an Republic. Impor ts and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun- try requ ire a license, which is seldom gran ted; in prac- tice, impo r ts and exports are made by an authorized pu rchas ing office. Exempt f rom pr ior au thor iza t ion are ( 1) imports and exports by or on beha lf of the T reasu ry and (2) impor ts and exports of m anu f a c tu r ed articles con ta in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. Certain companies have been o f f ic ia l ly appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes during 1979 No s ign if icant changes took place. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 57, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. The Office of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securi- ties in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is also administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economy, Planning, and Transportation. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. aThe CFA f ranc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Congo, and Gabon. 94 Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs maintained by the foreign correspondent of an author- ized bank, provided that the notes are mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- h ib i ted. Imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from a ll sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the former French Franc Area and from EC countries (the original member states), other than France, may be made freely. All imports from non-EC countries outside the former French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Minister of State in Charge of the Economy, Plan- ning, and Transportation on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EC countries outside the former French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries with abnormal competitive advantages. In addition, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar f rom EC countries, countries in the former French Franc Area, as well as other countries. Specified imports f rom neighboring countries not belonging to the former French Franc Area (the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria, and Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transactions. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports f rom foreign countries is permitted only for specified com- modities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. There has been some accumulation of arrears on external payments owing to the imposition of statutory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency with which to purchase fore ign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. For pilgrimage to Mecca, an additional alloca- tion of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a daily allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a maximum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the Office of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply may approve addi- tional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank- notes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, in addition to amounts remitted from foreign bank accounts. If no declaration has been made, they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addition to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. All exports to non-EC countries outside the former French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria, and Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of the Societe Cotonniere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD). Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days af ter the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and be surrendered if received in a foreign currency, w i th in one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all CHAD income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) and other foreign means of payment. Foreign banknotes and coin in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 brought in by residents must be exchanged for CFA francs within eight days of their return. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended inso- far as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or in troduc t ion of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the M in is ter of Finance, Buildings, and Supply, irrespective of the method of financing; the fu ll or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct invest- ments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply unless they take the fo rm of a mixed-economy enterprise. The full or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, whether these are Chad ian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. 2 Inc lud ing those made through fore ign companies that are directly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 3 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Chad that are directly or ind irec t ly under fore ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Chad of fo re ign companies. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securi- ties whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, with an interest rate no higher than 7 per cent and a ma tur i ty of two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must maintain in Chad a specified minimum proportion of their assets. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treat- ment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in speci- fied new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of State in Charge of the Economy, Planning, and Transportation, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commis- sion. Af ter an opinion has been given by that Commis- sion, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued five gold coins of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000, which are legal tender. Resi- dents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless specifically authorized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Office of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply and by the Directorate of Mines and Geology as well as the visa of the For- eign Trade Office. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of bo th) are the monopoly of an approved Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAV IE ), which is a private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso. Since June 30, 1979, the exchange rate of the Chilean peso has been set by the Central Bank of Chile at Ch$39 per US$1. The Central Bank may apply an exchange differential of up to 0.5 per cent of the official rate on purchases and sales of exchange. On December 31, 1979 the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Ch$38.805 and Ch$39.195, respectively, per US$1. The Banco del Estado, com- mercial banks, exchange houses, brokers, and other authorized entities may establish freely their exchange rates and commissions; their commissions are subject to a value-added tax of 20 per cent. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are not officially quoted. Exchange rates for the currencies of Argen- tina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are established freely. Banks and authorized entities operate in other cur- rencies with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. No taxes or subsidies are applied to purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Chile formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from July 27, 1977. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade and Exchange Division of the Central Bank is responsible for the operation of the exchange control system. The Chilean Copper Com- mission supervises copper exports and all imports of the copper industry; this supervision is exercised in accordance with the general rules enacted by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colom- bia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela (except those in respect of specified com- modities and any imports valued at less than US$3,000 f.o.b. which are effected under a simplified registration procedure) may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA). Settlements with the Dominican Republic may be made through clearing accounts established under a reciprocal credit agreement. Settlements with other countries take place in specified convertible currencies. imports and import Payments There is a List of Prohibited Imports, which con- tains only five commodities. Prior to shipment, all imports valued at over US$3,000 f.o.b. must be regis- tered w i th the Central Bank, which is empowered to reject import applications that are not in compliance with the regulations. Importers may purchase spot exchange as soon as their import applications have been approved and the shipping documents have been received. Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferida) require prior authorization of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Virtually all imports are subject to a registration tax of up to 3 per cent of the c.i.f. or f.o.b. value, which is offset against the applicable import duty. Ma r i t ime freights are subject to a 3 per cent surcharge. A value-added tax of 20 per cent is levied on the sum of the c.i.f. value and the import duty. Payments for Invisibles Central Bank authorization is required only for those payments for invisibles that are in excess of the estab- lished limits, and for transactions for which no basic allocation has been set. The authorization is provided upon presentation of appropriate documentation. Nat- u ral or legal residents may purchase up to US$3,000 each 30 days for "extraordinary remittances"; this amount, as a general rule, is not cumulative. The estab- lished limit for tourist travel (in addition to fares) is the equivalent of US$3,000 a trip for travel to all countries. Insurance activities are reserved to Chilean companies or foreign companies authorized to operate in Chile. Transfers of insurance premiums by com- panies that are not authorized are permitted only excep- tionally. There are allowances of up to US$3,000 a month for study abroad, and for medical purchases of a noncommercial character. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities may be freely exported. All exports valued in excess of US$3,000 must be registered with the Foreign Trade and Exchange Division of the Cen- tral Bank (with the Chilean Copper Commission for copper), and the proceeds of exports are subject to surrender requirements. Commercial banks are author- ized to purchase certain foreign exchange proceeds spot from exporters. Receipts from exports of the large copper mines must be deposited in a special foreign currency account at the Central Bank, and sales of foreign exchange to meet expenses in local currency must also be effected with the Central Bank. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 300 days from the date of shipment, and surrendered within 10 days there- after, depending on the commodity being exported, but for specified goods this period may be extended. How- ever, exporters are permitted to repurchase up to 10 per 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE cent of export proceeds for travel expenses and certain other purposes, within a ceiling of US$100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered when required by a legal dispo- sition. Such is the case for commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. There are no similar rules concerning the proceeds from royalties and copyright fees, family remittances, the surplus foreign exchange from travel allocations, proceeds from insurance unrelated to trade, and other income earned abroad. Capital Capital inflows are free, but most outflows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank, with the exception of the tak ing up of lines of credit with foreign corre- spondents. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three different arrangements depending on the pur- pose and type of the investment, as follows: (1) Article 14 of Decree No. 471 of October 17, 1977 stipulates that capital brought in to the country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporation, national or foreign) has regis- tered the transaction with the Central Bank. Capital can be repatriated after three years but if it originated in a foreign borrowing, it may be repatriated if it has remained in Chile for an average duration of at least 24 months.1 The interest rate must not exceed specified limits. Repatriation normally is allowed only in accord- ance with the amortization schedule established at the time of registration. Accelerated payments or exten- sions of payment are subject to special authorization. Foreign borrowing in maturities of less than five and a half years is subject to reserve requirements, as fol- lows: 25 per cent for maturities of two years to under three years, 15 per cent for maturities of three years to under four years, and 10 per cent for maturities of four years to under five and a half years. (2) Article 15 of the same decree authorizes the Central Bank to make exemptions to its general rules concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974 (modified by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Law, establishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital invest- ment. Authorization to make a foreign investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a fixed-term contract containing undertakings regarding the phasing of the investment program that will normally not exceed eight years for m in ing and 1 Use of the capital for the purpose of repaying debts to the bank ing system does not imply repatriation within a shorter period of time. 98 three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 million may be approved by the Executive Secre- tary of the Committee, except in connection with public utilities, communications, and areas usually reserved for state enterprises. There are no limitations on profit remittances. Capital may be repatriated after three years. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed 49.5 per cent per annum total corporation income tax over a period of ten years, or may subject themselves to the tax system applicable to domestic corporations (cur- rently 48.5 per cent). Any foreign credits involved must be authorized by, or registered with, the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree-Law No. 600 and which did not opt to be subject to that law continues to be sub- ject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Chile. Imports and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance with the normal for- malities for import and export transactions, including registration w i th the Central Bank. Changes during 1979 January I. The 1979 schedule of daily exchange rates announced on December 21, 1978 took effect. The schedule would require a depreciation of the peso from Ch$33.97 per US$1 on January 1 to Ch$38.96 per US$1 on December 31. January 1. Import duties on sedan-type cars and vans were reduced from 115 per cent to 105 per cent; it was announced that these duties would be lowered to 95 per cent, 80 per cent, 70 per cent, and 55 per cent at the beg inn ing of the subsequent four years. In addi- tion, import duties on trucks were reduced from 80 per cent to 75 per cent; at the beginning of the subsequent four years, these duties would decline by 5 percentage points each year. By the beginning of 1983, therefore, import duties for motor vehicles would be unified at 55 per cent. January 9. Decree No. 8 of the Ministry of Economy and Development lifted the ban on exports of copper scrap. Ferromolybdenum and oxide of molybdenum were removed from the list of exports not eligible for domestic credits for preshipment. January 10. Circular No. 1589 of the Superintend- ency of Banks and Financial Institutions permitted all ins t i tu t ions authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions to set commissions freely for exchange purchases and sales and to incorporate such commis- sions in the buying and selling spread. January 10. Circular No. 1590 permitted all insti- tutions authorized to engage in foreign exchange trans- actions to set their buying and selling prices freely. However, in transactions with the Central Bank, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution latter may continue to apply an exchange differential of 0.5 per cent of the official exchange rate for either purchases or sales. January 18. Circular No. 3009 prohibited the impor- tation from free zones of all types of station wagons and minibuses, regardless of value; previously, only those vehicles with a value in excess of US$3,500 f.o.b. had been prohibited. January 18. Circular No. 3011 discontinued the sale by the Central Bank of bearer certificates denominated in U.S. dollars (certificados para cobertura en mercado bancario or CEP ACS) which were previously used for import payments or as collateral for the opening of letters of credit. March 8. Circular No. 3035 added the currencies of Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela to the list of cur- rencies which authorized institutions might buy, sell, or transfer freely, without any obligation by the Central Bank of Chile to participate in these transactions. March 22. Circular No. 3040 permitted banking institutions to submit import documents to the Central Bank within 60 days (instead of 10 days) from the date of payment of the relevant foreign exchange. April 5. Circular No. 3013-8 increased the l im it on total external indebtedness of banks from 215 per cent to 225 per cent of capital and reserves; the limit on borrowing under Article 14 was raised from 60 per cent to 70 per cent of capital and reserves. April 5. Circular No. 3046 required natural and juridical persons contracting external credits under Articles 14 and 15 of the Law of International Exchange or direct investment loans under Decree Law No. 600 to deposit in the Central Bank of Chile the equivalent of 25 per cent of these credits and loans with maturities of 24 months to less than 36 months; for longer maturi- ties the deposit rate would be 15 per cent. These deposits would be effected in the same currency as the credits and loans and would not earn interest. Borrow- ings by the Central Bank and the Central Government, long-term suppliers' credits, and special credit lines for the financing of capital goods imports were exempted from this requirement. April 12. Circular No. 3051 exempted proceeds of exports valued up to US$3,000 from surrender require- ments. May 2. Decree No. 393 prescribed fu r ther tar iff reductions on imports of motor vehicles and spare parts: (1) tar iffs on nonoptional parts incorporated in national production were reduced from 25 per cent or 35 per cent to 10 per cent, with retroactive effect to Janua ry 1, 1979; (2) tariffs on passenger automobiles or passenger-cargo vehicles and jeeps with seating capacity of up to 15 seats and with engine capacity of up to 850 cubic centimeters were reduced from 105 per cent to 10 per cent; (3) tariffs on trucks with cargo capacities of more than 5,000 kilograms or with passenger capacities of more than 15 seats were reduced CHILE from 75 per cent to 10 per cent; (4) tariffs on passenger automobiles or passenger-cargo vehicles with seating capacity of up to 15 seats and with engine capacity in excess of 850 cubic centimeters were reduced from 105 per cent to 90 per cent: it was announced that at the beginning of each of the following seven years, this rate of tariff duty would be reduced by 10 percentage points (20 percentage points in 1984), bringing the duty rate to 10 per cent in 1986; (5) tariffs on vehicles w i th cargo capacity of up to 1,672 kilograms and with engine capacity in excess of 850 cubic centimeters were reduced from 75 per cent to 65 per cent; this rate also would be reduced progressively to 10 per cent in 1986; and (6) ta r i f fs on cargo vehicles with cargo capacity of more than 1,672 kilograms and up to 5,000 kilograms were reduced from 75 per cent to 45 per cent; this rate would be reduced to 10 per cent by 1984. The m in imum national content requirements for the domestic production of motor vehicles were reduced f rom 50 per cent to 30 per cent for passenger or passenger-cargo vehicles with seating capacity of up to 15 seats and with engine capacity in excess of 850 cubic centimeters, and from 40 per cent to 15 per cent for vehicles w i th cargo capacity of up to 5,000 kilograms. All other passenger automobiles and cargo vehicles were exempted from these requirements. May 2. A luxury tax v/as imposed on the purchase of vehicles, whether imported or nationally produced, whose final cost exceeded US$12,000 f.o.b. (excluding the value of optional accessories). The tax, which took effect on June 30, 1979, was set initially at 100 per cent of the amount in excess of US$12,000 up to 50 per cent of the value of the vehicle, and was scheduled to decline by 5 percentage points on April 1, 1980 and every six months thereafter to 60 per cent by October 1, 1983. The threshold of US$12,000 f.o.b. would be ad jus ted annua l ly beginning July 1, 1980 in accordance w i th va r ia t ions in the U.S. wholesale price index. May 2. Circular No. 3059 required that exchange cover be secured for import payments classified under cobertura corriente (i.e., not on a deferred basis) within 120 days generally, and within 90 days for automobiles. Previously, the permissible delay was 180 days. Exemp- tions for a total permissible delay of 360 days continued to be available for imports of certain machinery and parts, and certain raw materials. May 17. Circular No. 3074 modified the reserve requirements imposed on foreign borrowing. While the rate of 25 per cent continued to apply to maturities of two years to under three years, a rate of 15 per cent would apply to maturities of three years to under four years and a rate of 10 per cent would apply to matur- ities of four years to under five and a half years. Matur- ities of five and a half years or longer were totally ex- empted. Renewals of existing loans would be subject to these requirements. June 7. Circular No. 3083 abolished the 10,000 per 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE cent prior import deposit requirement that had been applied to used motor vehicles and parts. June 22. Exchange houses were permitted to pro- vide exchange cover for imports valued up to US$3,000 f.o.b. without prior authorization, a privilege granted to financial institutions on December 14, 1978. June 30. The exchange rate of the peso was adjusted f rom Ch$36.89 to Ch$39 = US$1; it was announced that the new exchange rate would be maintained until February 29, 1980. July 4. Circular No. 3109 widened the margin within which the Central Bank may intervene in the exchange market from 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent on either side of the exchange rate, thereby defining the intervention points as Ch$38.22 and Ch$39.78 per US$1. July 25. Circular No. 3121 added ships, airplanes, books, and magazines to the list of imports that might be exempted from the rule that exchange cover must be secured within 120 days for import payments classi- fied under cobertura corriente. For imports of capital goods (and spare parts for such goods valued up to 10 per cent of the total sh ipmen t) included in this list, exchange cover might be secured without Central Bank approval up to 360 days after shipment. August 9. Circular No. 3013-17 eliminated the limit on the external indebtedness of commercial banks (see entry for April 5, above). With effect from August 1, the limit on the monthly rate of liquidation of foreign loans was lowered to US$1 million or 5 per cent of capital and reserves, whichever was greater; previously, this limit had been US$2 million or 5 per cent of capital and reserves, whichever was greater. Development banks were required to adhere to this liquidation limit. August 18. Decree No. 379 prohibited the export of copper scrap until the end of 1979. September 6. Circular No. 3149 eliminated the spe- cial regulations relating to the importation and expor- tation of gold, making it subject to the general regula- tions on imports and exports. September 27. Circular No. 3160 authorized banking institutions to transact arbitrage operations with their foreign correspondents, provided that the maturities did not exceed 180 days and that the amounts involved were no greater than 100 per cent of each institution's capital and reserves. September 27. Circular No. 3165 unified the foreign exchange allowance for travel at US$3,000 a trip. Monthly allowances for studies abroad, attendance at conferences, studies by correspondence, purchases of books w i thout commercial value, subscriptions to books and magazines, remittances to students abroad, pur- chases of medicine without commercial value, costs of medical treatment, payments to pension funds and funds for widows and orphans, payments of foreign taxes, and rent on housing abroad were each raised from US$1,500 to US$3,000. Furthermore, the circular raised the per- missible amount of "extraordinary remittances" from US$1,500 to US$3,000 a month. November 29. By Circular No. 3206 the Central Bank reduced from 2 per cent to 0.5 per cent the margin which it could apply to purchases and sales of foreign exchange. 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The authorities of Colombia follow a policy of adjusting the peso in small amounts at relatively short intervals, taking into account: (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its major trading partners; (2) the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves; (3) export performance; and (4) Colombia's overall balance of payments position. Exchange surrender and foreign payments are generally effected through the medium of exchange certificates, which are traded in the official market at the official rate and in the stock exchange at varying rates of discount. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates in the official market for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Col$44.00 and Col$44.18, respectively, per US$1. On the same date newly issued exchange certificates were traded on the stock exchange at Col$40.57 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central bank) or the authorized banks. There are other effective exchange rates which result from (1) a 16 per cent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates being granted at four d ifferent percentages for most export proceeds; ( 3) a discount of 8 per cent on surrender of exchange certificates issued against proceeds from exports of coffee and other mer- chandise and invisibles, prior to the 120-day redemption period; and (4) the imposition of remittance tax at two different rates on certain service payments. The peso equivalent of the Government's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at the Bank of the Republic's accounting rate of Col$43.00 per US$1; the Govern- ment purchases exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio, titulos de divisas, or certificados de futuro) to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate on the date of issue. These warrants, which are expressed in U.S. dollars and have a maturity of six months or one year, are negotiable and may also be exchanged for exchange certificates, provided that the holder presents an exchange license. Within their period of validity, warrants may also be sold to the 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Venezuelan bolivares. Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certificate market buying rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear interest at 14 per cent per annum. Warrants held until af ter maturity cease to bear interest and can no longer be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate on the ma tur i ty date. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (!NCOMEX). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified current transactions, when made through credit institutions, do not require prior exchange licenses but must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post authentication. The Monetary Board is authorized periodically to draw up a foreign exchange budget, but has not exercised that power in recent years. It can also establish priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Coffee Growers. Overall import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Council (FTC). INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues direc- tives concerning direct investment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department. The Exchange Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the t ran s fer of profits, di /idends, commissions, and royal- ties for trademarks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds from certain current invisibles is also subject to prior registration w i th the Exchange Office. The Superintend- ency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of currencies which it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and receipts are nor- mally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies.1 Settle- ments for commercial transactions with countries with 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA which Colombia has bilateral payments agreements2 must be made through clearing accounts in accordance with the provisions of the particular bilateral payments agreement. Settlements between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- tained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA ). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Spain, and mem- ber countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Nonresident Accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign cur- rency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited import list. Imports are classi- fied either as goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by INCOMEX, or as goods that may be imported freely without license although subject to registration. In the latter category, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a National List applicable to LAFTA countries only, and special lists applicable only to less developed LAFTA member countries and to members of the Andean Pact. A distinction is drawn between reim- bursable and nonreimbursable imports. The term reimbursable imports covers imports that must be paid for within certain time limits, i.e., for raw materials and consumer goods, 150 days, and for capital goods, from three to five years; they include imports under bilateral payments agreements and those that are settled through multilateral clearing accounts and those financed by long-term loans. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Some imports are subject to price control applied by the Division of International Prices of INCOMEX. Import licenses for certain items are not normally issued; these include arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foodstuffs, certain textiles and clothing, and jewelry. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for six months, except for imports of agricultural and livestock products where the validity period is three a Bulgaria, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Ro- mania, and Yugoslavia. 102 months. Import licenses can be extended for successive three-month periods, whereas registrations of free imports can be extended only once for up to three months. Prior registration of the import transaction at INCOMEX is required for all imports other than those classified as "minor imports" or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$500. The charge for import registration is Col$200 plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value (with a minimum of US$4). In order to obtain exchange licenses, advance import payments deposits (depositos anticipados para pago de importaciones) of 35 per cent of the registered amount must be made in Colombian currency with an authorized bank before customs clearance. Importers then receive nonnegotiable, interest-free deposit certifi- cates for foreign payments (titulos de deposito para pagos al exterior) denominated in foreign currency and valid for 36 months. These may be used to purchase foreign exchange for partial payment of the import transaction (within any maximum payment terms speci- fied by the Monetary Board for the type of transaction concerned). Unused certificates may be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the original exchange rate. The following are exempt from advance import deposits: imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (the Vallejo P lan ); food- s tuffs for direct consumption; direct imports for the military and the police; imports from Eastern Europe; imports from countries with which reciprocal credit arrangements are in force (LAFTA countries, CACM countries, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, and Spain); imports financed with loans from international organiza- t ions; books, newspapers, and magazines; and gasoline. There is also an advance exchange license deposit (consignation) which has to be lodged, at the official rate for exchange certificates, prior to applying for an exchange license. The rate of deposit is 95 per cent of the value of the import. If the transaction is also subject to the advance import payment deposit of 35 per cent, th is is counted as part of the deposit for the advance exchange license. Imports financed with spe- cial credit lines from the Bank of the Republic or with funds from the national budget are exempt from advance import payment deposits. The Department of Develop- ment Credit in the Bank of the Republic can approve payment terms of up to seven years in special cases. Import duties are calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as deter- mined by the Ministry of Finance). In addition to cus- toms duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value, the proceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt from this tax are imports by public entities; goods of LAFTA origin; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, con- sular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for the free port of San Andres y Providencia or effected through the port of Leticia. With the above exemptions, imports are also subject to a tax of 1.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value, whose proceeds accrue to the ordinary bud- get of the National Government. All imports are subject to a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. Advance deposits must be made prior to applying for exchange licenses at a rate of 80 per cent for freight payments for imports. An advance exchange license deposit for payments for invisibles, amounting to 95 per cent of the transaction, must be effected in local currency prior to the issuance of an exchange license. The deposit requirement on freight payments for imports can be counted as part of the advance exchange license deposit. In principle, all payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses; however, the Bank of the Republic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit insti- tutions without prior exchange license. Commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel. Banks may also transfer without prior approval pay- ments for certain other current invisibles, including freight payments, banking commissions, interest on sup- pliers' credit, medical expenses, support of technical staff abroad, and the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with government support, and for the service on registered foreign loans taken up by the pri- vate sector. Exchange allocations for travel abroad do not exceed US$6,000 a year (half of these amounts for children under 12), but the limit may be raised to US$30,000 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country. Transfers to professional and technical persons undertaking courses abroad are gen- erally restricted to US$450 a month for up to 12 months, while for other students the ceilings range up to US$500 a month, depending on the cost of living in the country concerned. Remittances for the support of relatives abroad are limited to US$250 a month for each bene- ficiary, although the Exchange Office grants larger allo- cations for bona fide payments. The transfer of profits accruing to foreign investors is limited to 20 per cent of the investment per annum. An additional 7 per cent may be reinvested. Profits in excess of 27 per cent may be capitalized as direct investment, whenever at least 50 per cent of the investment is in the form of bonds issued by the Industrial Promotion Institute. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. A remittance tax of 12 per cent is applicable to a number of current COLOMBIA payments; for profits transferred by branches of for- eign companies, the tax is 20 per cent. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of Col$500 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of crude oil and certain other commodities are prohibited, and exports of certain foodstuffs are subject to quotas. Exports of certain other items, such as beef, are reserved for the Institute de Mercado Agropecuario ( !DEMA ). No export licenses are required. Prior application for registration is required, however, for all exports except crude oil, samples, and Colombian products in noncommercial quantities. When register- ing an export transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX with either a personal guarantee in pesos (but w i thout depositing any fund s) or a bank guarantee corresponding to 20 per cent of the registered amount, calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. The periods for surrendering export proceeds normally are as follows: (1) for coffee, within 20 days from the date of registration of the export; and (2) for other goods, generally within 270 days of registration. How- ever, longer terms are permitted for goods sold on a commission basis, that is, books, magazines, and other printed matter, capital goods, and other goods that nor- mally require more extended payment terms. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds sur- rendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan. All exchange pro- ceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude oil not produced by the Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL), must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic; ECOPETROL and exporters of minerals associated with state enterprises also are per- mitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum products receive tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario or CATs) in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the total earnings sur- rendered, converted at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. This ratio is 0.1 per cent, 5 per cent, 9 per cent, or 12 per cent, depending on the commodity; the rates are calculated on domestic value added for specified assembly operations. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices three or six months after issuance for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is effected by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are negotiable on the stock 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA exchange. In the case of exchange certificates issued against proceeds from exports of coffee, certain textiles and leather manufactures, clothing, shoes, guns, and furn i ture, a discount of 8 per cent is applied if the certificates are presented to the bank ing system for redemption w i th in 120 days of issue. Certificates issued against export proceeds from other exports are redeemed by the Fondo de Promocion de Expor- taciones (PROEXPO) without that discount. M in imum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set from time to time by the Monetary Board.3 Exports of coffee are subject to the following regulations: ( 1) A m in imum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed af ter deduction for freight and insur- ance at US$251 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters pay ia tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 16 per cent ad valorem. Of this tax, 3.2 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund and 0.8 percentage points are paid to the Departmental Committees of Coffee Growers, while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account. (3) Exporters must either surrender without payment (in the form of untreated coffee) the equivalent of 58 per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (reten- don cafetera) or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 per cent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio tax ); the tax must be paid to the Fed- eration either in kind or in pesos. (5) A committee com- posed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered; they are converted against exchange certifi- cates which can be sold in the stock exchange. If they are sold to the banking system within 120 days of issue, a discount of 8 per cent is applied. For surrenders in respect of gifts and the rendering of professional services other than medical, hospital, or educational services, prior authorization from the Exchange Office is required. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is a 95 per cent advance payment deposit on all outflows, which must be lodged prior to applying for an exchange license. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank residents,4 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under :l At the end of 1979 soluble coffee was subject to a m in imum sur- render price of US$6.50 per kilogram. 4 Suppliers' credits of a once-for-all nature also require registration; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such credits are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York pr ime ra te or the London in terbank offered rate. 104 Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be regis- tered with the Exchange Office. Capital imports require prior approval by the National Planning Department, and capital for the petroleum industry or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Capital registration entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on certain conditions speci- fied in Decree No. 1900 of September 15, 1973. The transfer of profits is limited to 20 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (beginning with profits earned in 1968), except for profits resulting from invest- ments of outstanding importance or involving special risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the in terna t ional money market. If in any year the earnings remitted are less than 20 per cent, the balance may be remitted in subsequent years; where the profits were earned (and not remitted) prior to the coming into force of Decree-Law No. 444 of 1967, the additional remittances must not exceed 3 per cent a year. New investments may be granted exemptions from import du ty and from advance deposit requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. All foreign banks and their branches must have Colombian' majority participation. In this respect, "subregional" participa- tions (i.e., from member countries of the Andean Pact) are treated as Colombian participations. New direct foreign investment in banks, insurance com- panies, and other financial institutions is restricted to investors from member countries of the Andean Pact and to "national" or "mixed" companies. Foreign par- ticipation is also restricted in new or established com- panies engaged in the international resale of imported and domestic products or in activities related to tourism. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- v idua ls or firms are generally subject to a minimum ma tur i ty of five years and to an interest rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York prime rate or the London in terbank offered rate. Such loans normally are permitted only when mining companies are involved or ju r id ical persons who are established in Colombia as representatives of foreign firms and are contributing to the construction of public works of national interest. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide import financing from foreign cur- rency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for national or governmental entities in excess of Col$10 million or US$500,000 require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Govern- ment, the following are also required: prior authoriza- tion by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consultation with the In terpar l iamen tary Committee on Public Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the beneficiary to make transfers abroad. They require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquida- tion of the investment. Exports of capital by residents are restricted, and such exports by private individuals are not normally permitted. Gold Natural and juridical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for numismatic purposes only. With this exception, the Bank of the Republic alone is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. Imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The Bank of the Republic purchases locally produced gold at the average price prevailing in the London and Zurich markets during the preceding week; mining companies with foreign capital participation are paid 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capital repayments, taxes, etc.; the rema in ing 50 per cent and all payments to domestic producers are paid at the certificate market exchange rate. When selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the pro- ducers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to 5 per cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in pesos at their market value. In addition, the Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 per cent on the total payment received by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Colombian Mining Association at a price equivalent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad during the previous month; this price is converted into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the m in ing com- panies producing gold are under the supervision of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the m in ing companies must obtain a license f rom the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from t ime to t ime strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1979 January 12. A 15,000 ton export quota for cotton was authorized (FTC-lNCOMEX Resolution No. 003 /79). January 16. A 10,000 ton export quota for white rice was authorized for the first two months of 1979 (FTC- INCOMEX Resolution No. 004/79). COLOMBIA January 24. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was reduced from US$259 to US$243 per 70- kilogram bag (MBRNo. 1/79). January 24. The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of the Republic was empowered to authorize the issuance of foreign exchange licenses to domestic financial institutions to cover their foreign exchange position, whenever this had been affected by payments related to import financing, and when reimbursement could not be effected using normal procedures. Banks were also able to obtain foreign exchange licenses at the beginning of their foreign exchange operations. Rules were liberalized for entities that might open and operate deposits denominated in foreign exchange, sub- ject to prior authorization of the Foreign Exchange Department. Previously, only credit institutions, insur- ance companies, transportation and export firms, and other specified entities could open and hold these accounts. Moreover, wider use of the accounts was also authorized, without the specific approval of the Mone- tary Board (MBR No. 4 /79 ). January 31. With effect from February 1, the mini- mum surrender price for coffee exports was reduced f rom US$243 to US$217 per 70-kilogram bag (MBR No. 5 /79). January 31. The 35 per cent advance import pay- ment deposit was henceforth to be met in local cur- rency, at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. Previously, the deposit could be fully constituted with exchange certificates (MBR No. 6 /79 ). February 7. Foreign currency liabilities contracted by public sector financial institutions were exempted from the m in imum reserve requirement of 18 per cent when linked to the financing of approved mining proj- ects, and when this financing would not exceed 15 per cent of total costs (MBRNo. 7 /79 ). February 7. The Institute of Industrial Promotion was authorized to issue bonds that could be used for the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital, in excess of the m ax imum permissible limits on such profits estab- lished in accordance with the regulations of the Carta- gena Agreement (MBRN o. 8 /79 ). February 9. Imports financed by foreign loans were reclassified as reimbursable, and would require a license issued by INCOMEX (Foreign Exchange Department, General Circular No. 8). February 21. With effect from February 22, the m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was reduced f rom US$217 to US$188.40 per 70-kilogram bag (MBR No. 15 /79). February 23. Special lamps for surgery rooms and for use in dentistry were included among the capital goods imports required to be paid within 36 months (FTC Resolution No. 012 /79 ). February 26. Coffee Savings Bonds were abolished (M in is t ry of Finance and Public Credit, Decree No. 429 /79 ). 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA February 26. The coffee surrender requirement appli- cable to exporters of excelso coffee was reduced from 80 per cent to 45 per cent of the volume to be exported (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, Decree No. 430/79). February 26. With effect from April 1, the minimum redemption period of 120 days without discount for exchange certificates was effectively eliminated for export proceeds from coffee, cotton, flowers, live cattle, beef, gems, and precious metals. PROEXPO was granted a special rediscount facility to purchase promptly the certificates originating from those transactions without the discount of 9 per cent. Only foreign exchange accrued from services and tourism remained subject to the discount (MBRN o. 17/79). February 26. The interest rate on exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio) was increased from 7 per cent to 14 per cent (MBR No. 18/79). February 26. The rate of advance exchange license deposit (consignation) was increased to 95 per cent, from 40 per cent for products for immediate use (including raw materials and consumer goods) and from 60 per cent for all other import payments and also remittances. The rate was also increased from 80 per cent to 95 per cent for freight payments for imports. The advance import payment deposit (equiva- lent to 35 per cent) was henceforth to be counted as part of the required advance deposit; (previously, the advance payment deposit had been computed on the value of the import net of the advance import deposit). The deposit was to be made entirely in local currency. Advance payments on foreign loans made at least four months prior to maturity, and payments for imports of capital goods within 32 months of the importation, previously exempt from the advance deposit, were made subject to the 95 per cent rate (MBR No. 19/79). Guidelines for implementation were provided by General Circular No. 18 of 1979, issued by the Foreign Exchange Depart- ment and by Circular No. DE/394/79 of March 7 of the Bank of the Republic. March 5. Colombia approved the Articles of Agree- ment of the Latin American Economic System (SELA) established in October 1975 (Law No. 15 /79). March 7. With effect from March 8, the minimum surrender price for soluble coffee was lowered from US$8 to US$6.50 a kilogram (MBR No. 26 /79 ). March 7. All increases in the outstanding level of foreign liabilities of banks and financial corporations that occurred after February 28 were exempted from the minimum reserve requirements of 18 per cent (MBR No. 27 /79). March 7. Advance payment deposits for exchange license applications for travel expenses abroad were reintroduced at the rate of 95 per cent (MBR No. 28 /79). March 13. Donations and transfers abroad in amounts 106 smaller than US$50,000 could be authorized by the local offices of the Foreign Exchange Department (FED General Circular No. 20/79). March 22. The text of a new contract between the National Federation of Coffee Growers and the Colom- bian Government, signed on December 20, 1978, appeared in the National Gazette, effectively extending the prior existing contract through December 31, 1988. March 23. Imports of airplanes and airplane spare parts and engines were made subject to prior authoriza- tion by the National Drug Council (Administrative Department of Civil Aeronautics, Resolution No. 1592/79). March 27. Certain assembled automobiles were excluded from the category of capital goods. The cost of imports of such automobiles must be paid within 150 days to 18 months, according to specified charac- teristics (FTC Resolution No. 030/79). April 17. Prior approval by INCOMEX was required for exports of sesame (FTC Resolution No. 042/79). April 18. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was increased from US$188 to US$202 per 70-kilogram bag (MBR No. 33 /79). April 30. Import duties on specified types of wire were modified (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, Decree No. 879/79). May 3. The import duty on sorbitol was increased to 45 per cent (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, Decree No. 959/79). May 4. With effect from May 5 the coffee surrender requirement applicable to exporters of excelso coffee was increased f rom 45 per cent to 55 per cent of the volume to be exported (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, Decree No. 963 /79). May 4. With effect from May 5 the minimum sur- render price for coffee exports was increased from US$202 to US$206 per 70-kilogram bag (MBR No. 36 /79 ). May 9. The discount on advance redemption of exchange certificates within 120 days of issuance was reduced f rom 9 per cent to 8 percent (MBRNo. 37 /79). May 23. New regulations were issued for foreign investment within the context of the Cartagena Agree- ment. The National Planning Department was required to determine the maximum time limit for completion of any authorized investment, and new authorizations would be required if the investment did not take place during this period. For export-related projects, INCOMEX was to establish export agreements and supervise the fu lf i l lment of the contracts. The new legislation also provided for classification by the Planning Department of certain foreign nationals as domestic investors if they relinquished their rights to re-export capital and transfer profits abroad. In addition, certain nationals of the other member countries of the Cartagena Agreement were to be considered as Colombian nationals for the purpose of the legislation. Any corporation with partici- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pation of foreign nationals would be subject to surveil- lance by the Superintendencia de Sociedades and would require prior authorization for its operations (National Planning Department, Decree No. 1161/79). May 23. With effect from May 24, the minimum waiting period of 120 days for the redemption of exchange certificates without discount was reinstated for certain leather manufactures, and also for specified textiles, clothing, shoes, gems, and wooden furn i ture (MBR No. 38/79; see also MBR No. 17/79). May 23. Banks were authorized to prepay external loan obligations that had been contracted to provide financing for the purchase of shares and bonds in for- eign banks and similar foreign financial institutions or for the purpose of opening new branches or agencies abroad. Resources used for such repayments would be counted against the banks' minimum reserve require- ments on net foreign liabilities (MBR No. 40 /79 ). June 4. With effect from June 5 the coffee surrender requirement applicable to exporters of excelso coffee was increased from 55 per cent to 58 per cent of the volume to be exported (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, Decree No. 1302/79). June 4. With effect from June 5 the minimum sur- render price for coffee exports was increased from US$216 to US$251 per 70-kilogram bag (MBR No. 41 /79 ). June 4. With effect from June 5 the discount on cer- tificates of exchange issued against proceeds of coffee exports was reinstated. It was announced that the Bank of the Republic was ready to purchase certificates of exchange at a discount of 8 per cent, when presented within 120 days of issue (MBR No. 42/79; see also MBR No. 17/79). June 13. New regulations were issued concerning import payments. The maximum term for effecting pay- ment was reduced from 60 months to 36 months for imports of those capital goods that were not covered by a global license or the Vallejo Plan. A new advance import payment deposit requirement, equivalent to 20 per cent of the value of the import license, was estab- lished for imports of capital goods which previously had been exempted from the deposit. Gasoline imports were included among those commodities not subject to the prior import payment deposit. Importers would con- t inue to receive a nonnegotiable deposit certificate for foreign payments, valid for 36 months for the amount of the deposit. Special warranty requirements on the amount of the payment due in excess of the prior deposit were established for all imports. Commercial banks were made liable for any deficiency of payment by the importer (MBR No. 45 /79 ). June 13. The minimum reserve requirement on for- eign obligations of commercial banks was reduced to 3 per cent for the first US$2.5 million and 9 per cent thereafter. Previously, the requirement had been 6 per cent for the first US$4 million and 18 per cent there- COLOMBIA after. The reduction from 18 to 9 per cent was to be made in three monthly steps of 3 per cent each, starting July 1 (MBR No. 46 /79 ). June 13. Banks were allowed to retain for their for- eign exchange position the equivalent of up to 10 per cent of their total liabilities in foreign exchange (instead of 6 per cent). The Bank of the Republic was still authorized to establish deposits in foreign exchange with local commercial banks up to twice the foreign exchange reserves of each of those institutions; the reserve require- ment for such deposits was reduced from Col$5 to Col$2 per US$1 (MBR No. 47 /79). June 15. Import duties were modified for a variety of commodities, including tires and capital goods imports. Further adjustments affecting transport equipment were announced on June 18 (Ministry of Government, Decrees Nos. 1409/79, 1415/79, and 1417/79). June 18. Regulations were issued concerning the time limits for payments for imports of vehicles. Imports of vehicles that were classified as capital goods under global license were to be paid for within five years, while all other vehicles classified as capital goods were to be paid for within three years. Certain vehicles and spare parts were to be paid for within 24 months, while certain other automobiles were classified as consumer goods and were to be paid for within the terms established for imports for immediate use (150 days). Parts for such automobiles would be paid for within 18 months (FTC Resolution No. 051/79). June 26. Exports for several items, previously classi- fied as freely exportable, were made subject to prior approval by INCOMEX. The list included leather goods, shoes, clothing, chairs, and unworked gems. Prior INCOMEX registration was required for polished gems, precious stones, and tropical fish (FTC Resolution No. 057/79). June 28. The 5 per cent import duty on capital goods for certain specified industries, established in May 1976, was extended through June 30, 1980. The industries comprised agriculture, textiles, steel and machinery, food processing, chemical, printing, electrical, and construc- tion. The import duty applied also to machinery and related materials for use in plant expansion, with prior authorization by the National Council of Customs Pol- icies (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, Decree No. 1551/79). July 6. The granting of credits by Colombian credit institutions for import financing purposes was restricted. The role of banks would be limited to the issue of war- ranties and the negotiation of the payment of principal and interest with a financial entity abroad (Bank Supervisory Committee, External Circular No. DC DR-981/79). July 27. Imports of animal feed of agricultural origin were included in the list of freely importable commod- ities (FTC Resolution No. 66 /79 ). 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA August 3. The General Customs Directorate issued detailed regulations for the operation of free zones in Colombian ports, expanding Decree No. 1366 of 1977 of the M in is try of Finance and Public Credit (Customs Directorate, General Regulation No. 0329 /79 ). August 16. The system of payments for invisibles was liberalized. Individual foreign exchange license requirements were eliminated for specific service pay- ments abroad. For certain expenses only a certified request would be necessary, while for others a receipt of payment would be required. Prior authorization was required for press and radio-related expenses, payments for film rentals and imports, and for other specified items. The foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad was increased from US$2,800 to US$6,000 for adults and f rom US$1,400 to US$3,000 for children under 12. The ceiling on travel considered especially beneficial to the country was increased from US$23,400 a year to US$30,000 a year. August 16. The advance import payment deposit for imports of capital goods was increased f rom 20 per cent to 35 per cent (MBR No. 52/79; see also MBR No. 45/79, above). August 16. The special arrangements for refinancing the foreign exchange obligations of IDEMA were abro- gated. Industrial and commercial enterprises that had special credit lines included in those arrangements were nonetheless required to obtain prior authorization from the Monetary Board for their import and external debt repayment plans (MBR No. 55/79). August 21. The External Trade Council issued a list of 626 items that would be added to the list of com- modities to be imported freely, without prior licensing by INCOMEX (FTC Resolution No. 075 /79). September 5. Exporters of mineral products in asso- ciation with state enterprises were authorized to retain part of their export proceeds for the payment of foreign obligations, subject to prior authorization by the Mone- tary Board (MBR No. 56/79). September 5. Importers of specified vehicles under bills of lading dated prior to March 27, 1979 were required to pay for the value of the import w i th in five months. A prior deposit of 35 per cent was required for these payments (MBR No. 58 /79 ). September 10. It was announced that rental payments for television movies would not be subject to the special remittance tax (Foreign Exchange Department, General Circular No. 46). September 12. Capital goods to be imported by the public sector were exempted from the 35 per cent advance import payment deposit whenever the Ministry of Finance had given prior authorization for the for- eign financing of the purchase (Foreign Exchange Department, General Circular No. 49; see also MBR No. 45/79, above). 108 September 12. Import duties were reduced on a wide range of commodities covering about 2,600 entries. The policy change reflected the intention of the authorities to reduce import duties gradually to the levels agreed under the Cartagena Agreement. The full adjustment was to be effected within three years, to avoid disruption of the operations of domestic producers. The reduction of import duties amounted to 5 percentage points when- ever the difference between the former rate and the target rate did not exceed 10 points. Whenever the dif- ference exceeded 10 points, the adjustment amounted to 5 percentage points and 25 per cent of the remaining d ifference. The indicative duty levels under the Carta- gena Agreement for the glass, paper, and plastic sectors were adopted (M in is try of Finance and Public Credit, Decrees Nos. 2255/79, 2256/79, and 2257 /79). September 25. Prior approval by INCOMEX and INDERENA was reintroduced for exports of wooden elec- trical poles having specified characteristics (FTC Reso- lution No. 87 /79). September 29. The validity of CAT rates established for 1979 was extended through 1980. Moreover, it was decided that with effect from January 1, 1980 exports under the official export-import regimes were to be sub- ject to a reduced CAT reimbursement rate of 0.1 per cent. Exports subject to special assembly contracts with INCOMEX were exempted from the reduction and con- tinued to benefit from the CAT rates previously in operation (M in is t ry of Finance and Public Credit, Decree No. 2380 /79). September. Certification requirements on the distri- bution of capital of companies exporting to the Andean Group were announced, on the basis of Decision No. 24 of the Andean Group, requiring such certification if domestic enterprises were to benefit from the reduction in import duties in the Andean Market (Superintenden- cia de Sociedades, External Circular No. 0-011/79). October 17. Imports of equipment and capital goods financed by financial institutions were exempted from the 35 per cent advance import payment deposit and war- ranty requirements. Previously, only imports of capital goods financed by international organizations and imports by the public sector with approved financing had been exempted from the requirement (MBR No. 63/79; see also MBR No. 45/79, above). October 23. Fifty-eight items previously included in the list of freely importable commodities were trans- ferred to the list of items subject to prior licensing (FTC Resolution No. 99/79; see also FTC Resolution No. 057 /79 ). November 28. The bilateral payments agreement with Spain was terminated with effect from December 31 and was replaced by a reciprocal credit arrangement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of the Comoros is the CFA Franc, wh ich is pegged to the French f r a n c, the i n t e r v e n t i on currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The c u r r e nt b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the French f r a nc are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other cu r- rencies 1 are also o f f i c i a l ly quo ted and are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange ma rket rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Terr i tor ies) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose ins t i tu te of issue is l ink ed w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun t r i es may be made freely. A ll o ther coun t r ies are considered for- eign countries. Exchange control is adm in is te red by the I n s t i t u te of Issue. The M in i s t ry of F inance, Economy, and the Plan supervises bo r row ing and l end ing abroad, inwa rd direct inves tmen t, and all ou tward inves tmen ts. Part of the approval au tho r i ty in respect of exchange con- trol has been delegated to an au thor ized bank — the sole commerc ial bank —and to the Postal A dm i n i s t r a- tion. All exchange transac t ions re la t ing to fore ign coun tr ies must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion. Import licenses are issued by the Director of Foreign Trade, and those for exports are issued by the Director of Economic A f f a i r s. Prescription of Currency The Ins t i tu te of Issue m a i n t a i ns an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; se t t lemen ts w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- t ions Account coun tr ies are made in CFA francs, F rench francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun try. Settlements w i th a ll o ther coun tr ies are u sua l ly made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those coun tr ies, or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements w i th Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche m a r k, Hong Kong do l la rs, Kenya sh i l l ing s, M a u r i t i an rupees, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, pounds s te r l ing, Sou th A f r i c an r a n d, Swed ish k r o n e r, Swiss f r an c s, Tunisian d inars, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of Rhodes ian and Sou th A f r i c an o r ig in are p r o h i b i t e d, and the im p o rt of c e r t a in o ther goods is p roh ib i t ed f rom a ll coun t r ie s. The impo rt f rom any source of c e r t a in o ther commod i t ies is subject to i n d i- v i d u al l icen s ing. A ll impo rt t ran sac t ions re la t ing to fo r e ign coun t r ies m u st be dom i c i l ed w i th the au thor- ized b a nk if the v a l ue is CFAF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro- h ib i ted. Paymen ts for inv i s ib les to F rance (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies are p e rm i t t ed f ree ly. Those to o ther coun t r ies are sub- ject to a p p r o v a l; w i th the exception of t rave l, for wh i ch there a re m a x im um a l loca t ion s, such approvals a re gene ra l ly g iven l ib e r a l ly. For tou r i st t r av e l, residents t r a v e l i ng to countries other than France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account coun t r ies may ob ta in up to CFAF 250,000 in fo re ign cu r rency a person a t r ip. The m a x im um t h at may be a l loca ted in b ankno t es is CFAF 125,000; the r em a i n d er may be in the fo rm of a b ank t r a n s f e r, trave lers checks, a ce r t i f ied check, or any o ther means of paymen t. For bus iness travel, a special a l loca t ion may be au tho r ized by the In s t i tu te of Issue upon the request of the au tho r ized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expor ts to Rhodes ia and Sou th A f r i ca a re pro- h i b i t e d. W i th a few excep t ions, expor ts to France, Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r i es are free of license. Most exports to other coun t r i es requ ire licenses. Proceeds f rom expo r ts to fo re ign coun t r ies mu st n o rm a l ly be collected and the receipts repa t r ia ted w i t h in 30 days of the exp i r a t ion of the commerc ial con t ract and sold imm e d i a t e ly to the au tho r ized b ank. A ll export t ran sac t ions r e l a t i ng to fo re ign coun t r ies m u st be dom ic i led w i th the au tho r ized b a nk if the v a l ue is CFAF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om t ransac t ions in inv i s ib l es w i th France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account coun t r i es may be re ta ined. A ll amoun ts due f rom res iden ts of o ther coun t r ies in respect of services and a ll income ea rned in those coun t r i es f r om fo re ign assets must be collected and, if received in fo r e ign cu r rency, be su r rende red w i t h in one mon th of the due date or the date of receipt. Res ident and non r e s id ent trave lers may b r i ng in any am o u nt of domes t ic and fore ign bankno tes and coin. Capital A ll se t t lemen ts be tween the Comoros and Rhodes ia and South A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted. Cap i tal movemen ts 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in p r inc ip le, f ree of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun tr ies require exchange control approval but cap i tal receipts f rom such countries norma l ly are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over borrow ing abroad, over inward direct investment, and all outward investments; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require prior authorization and are not normally permitted. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 110 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange System The currency of the People's Republic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as the purchase of those countries' bank- notes and travelers checks, are subject to a commission of 0.75 per cent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; exempt are payments of the State, the Postal Administra- tion, and the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholar- ships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Congo. Most payments to other foreign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 per cent or, for foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Pur- chase Office, 0.50 per cent; these commissions are sub- ject to a minimum of CFAF 100. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although sub- ject to declaration, are unrestricted: ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo. The Office of External Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lend ing abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the Office of External Financial Relations. All exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of External Finan- cial Relations. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina are made through special accounts established under a bilateral payments agreement.2 Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments between the Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC banknotes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require prior authorization. All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. There is an indicative annual import program which distin- guishes between five zones: ( 1) the countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC ); (2) France; (3) other countries of the former French Franc Area; (4) EC countries other than France; and (5) all rema in ing countries. All imports under this program require licenses. The im- port program does not include petroleum imports, for which a jo int quota is set for the countries of the UDEAC. Also outside the program are imports for the Government under foreign aid and bilateral payments agreements, and imports made by the Office Na t ional du Commerce (O FNACOM ). OFNACOM has a monopoly over certain imports, inc lud ing hardware, rice, canned tomatoes, salt, and salted fish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods f rom Japan, and certain other textiles f rom the People's Republic of Ch ina. The quotas for non-EC countries may be used to impo rt goods or ig ina t ing in any coun t ry outside the former French Franc Area. 1The CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. 3 There are inoperative paymen ts agreements with Bu lga r ia and No r th Korea. in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO A ll impo rt transac t ions re la t ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from coun- tries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and the Office of Ex ternal Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles impor ters to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documents are subm i t ted to the authorized bank. All imports must be insured w i th the state in su r- ance company, Societe d'Assurances et de Reassurances du Congo (SARC ). To imp lement th is measure, the Congolese Customs Service releases imports only a f ter an insu rance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. There has been some accumulation of arrears on ex ternal paymen ts ow ing to the impos i t ion of s ta tu tory ceilings on central bank credit to the Gove rnment and an ensu ing shortage of domestic cur- rency w i th which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized in te rmed ia ry; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accru ing to non- residents in the fo rm of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transac t ion has been approved. At the end of 1979 ce r ta in cu r rent payments were in arrears. Residents trave l ing as tourists to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a t r ip (CFAF 87,500 for children under t e n ), or CFAF 10,000 if the dura t ion of the t r ip is less than 24 hours, for any number of tr ips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing af ter re tu rn to the Congo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a m ax imum of CFAF 400,000 a t r i p; add i t ional amoun ts may be authorized in app rop r ia te cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special fac i l i t ies for travelers to K inshasa who request no fo re ign means of payment other than Za i r ian banknotes. The t ran s fer of the entire net salary of a fore igner w o r k i ng in the Congo is per- mitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place w i th in three mon ths of the pay period. Residents traveling to 112 France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Operations Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under ten) in BEAC bank- notes. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports require prior authorization. Most exports to countries in the former French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the Na t ional Ma rke t ing Office for Agricultural Products (Off ice Na t ional de Commercialisation des Produ i ts Agr ico les) and by the Na t ional Ma rke t ing Office for Timber (Office Congolais du Bo is). Proceeds f rom exports to foreign coun tr ies must be collected and repatriated, generally w i th in 180 days of a r r ival of the commodities at the ir destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in a month of the due date. All export transactions relating to coun t r ies other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amoun ts due f rom residents of foreign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected when due and surrendered w i th in a mon th of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of bankno tes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in- ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in ). Capital All capital movements between the Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Movements of funds between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free, though ex post dec lara t ions are required. Such movements to countries that are not members of the BEAC are sub- ject to a commission of 0.25 per cent. Most in te rna- t ion al cap i tal t ransac t ions are subject to pr ior au tho r i- zation. Cap i tal t rans fe rs abroad requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f r om abroad genera l ly are permitted free ly. A ll for- eign securities, fore ign currency, and titles embody ing c la ims on fo re ign coun t r ies or nonres iden ts that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transac t ions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad;l require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance; the f u ll or pa r t ial l iqu ida- tion of such investments also requires the pr ior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo4 require prior approval by the M in i s ter of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed- economy enterprise. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments im p l y i ng control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of fo re ign securities in the Congo requires prior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connection with (1) bor- rowing backed by a guarantee f rom the Congolese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. How- ever, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Congo. * Including those involving the transfer between nonresidents of a participation in the capital of a Congolese company. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO thereon, must be reported to the Office of External F inanc ial Re la t ions w i th in 20 days of the operation. Lend ing by residents to nonres iden ts is subject to exchange control, and all lend ing in CFA f rancs to non- residents is prohibited unless special au thor iza t ion is obtained f rom the M in is ter of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in fore ign currenc ies when the total am o u nt ou t s t and ing of these loans does not exceed the equ iv a l ent of CFAF 5 m i l l i on for any one lende r; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 per cent a year and whose m a t u r i ty is two years or less. The m a k i ng of loans that are free of au tho r i z a t ion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Ex te rnal F inanc ial Re la t ions w i t h in 20 days. Under the Inves tment Code of A p r il 26, 1973, a n um b er of privileges may be gran ted to approved for- e ign inves tmen ts. The Code provides for f o ur categories of p re fe ren t ial t rea tmen t. Gold By v i r t ue of Decree No. 66/236 of J u ly 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of Augu st 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the fo rm of coin, art objects, or jewe l ry; however, they requ ire the p r ior au tho r iza t ion of the M in is ter of Finance to hold gold in any other fo rm or to import or export gold in any fo rm, from or to any other coun try. Exempt from the latter requ irement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BEAC and (2) impor ts and exports of manu fac tu red articles con- t a in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Hate System The c u r r e n cy of Costa R i ca is the Costa R i c an Colon, w h i ch is pegged to the U.S. do l la r, the i n t e r v e n t i on c u r r e n c y, at (? 8.57 — US$1. The o f f ic ial b u y i ng and s e l l i ng ra tes for the U.S. d o l l ar are G* 8.54 and 08.60, r e s p e c t i v e l y, per US$1. B u y i ng and se l l ing rates for c e r t a in o th er cu r renc ie s1 a re also o f f i c i a l ly quo ted, w i th d a i ly q u o t a t i o ns based on the re la t ionsh ip of those cu r- renc ies aga inst the U.S. do l lar expressed in Costa R i c an colones at b u y i ng and s e l l i ng rates of C 8.57 and <£ 8.60, re spec t ive ly, per US$1. The C an ad i an d o l l ar also is o f f i c i a l ly quo ted; d a i ly quo ta t ions for t r a n s a c t i o ns in b a n k n o t es and checks expressed in that c u r r e n cy a re based on the b u y i ng and s e l l ing rates for the U.S. dol- lar in m a r k e ts abroad. The Cen t ral Bank s tands ready, in p r i n c i p l e, to buy U.S. do l la rs fo rwa rd at 90 days, at <Z 8.39055 per US$1. M any p r iva te sector t r a n s- ac t ions in f o r e i gn exchange, i n c l u d i ng se t t lemen ts for c u r r e nt and cap i tal t r a n s f er t ran sac t ion s, a re effected t h r o u gh the San Jose stock exchange at rates close to the o f f i c i al ma rket rate. On December 31, 1979 the b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar in that ma r- ket were 08.65 and #8 .71, respectively, per US$1. This exchange ra te cannot vary by more th an six po in ts f rom the e f fec t ive average rate recorded for transac t ions on the prev ious day; moreover, the m a x im um va r ia t ion in any given day also cannot exceed six points. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Costa Rica fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of A r t i c le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as f rom February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Cen t ral Bank. No licenses are required to buy or sell foreign exchange that is not subject to m and a to ry sale to the b a n k i ng system. Prescription of Currency In practice, near ly all exchange t ransac t ions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made through special U.S. dollar accounts established under a paymen ts agreement w i th th at c o u n t r y. P aym en ts to other member countries of the Cen t ral Amer ican Common Market ( CA CM )2 in re- spect of t rade and trade-related inv is ib les must be made in Costa R i c an colones th rough the Cen tral Ame r ican C l e a r ing House. Paymen ts to and f rom Colombia in respect of comme rc ial opera t ions, services, and capital 1 Gua tema lan quetzales, Hondu ran lempiras, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones. For the N icaraguan cordoba a selling rate on ly is quo ted. 2 El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N icaragua. 114 may be made in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit a r r a n g em e nt between the member cen tral banks of the C e n t r al Am e r i c an C lea r ing House and the Bank of the R epub l ic of Colombia. P aym en ts to Mexico in respect of t rade, inv is ib les, and cap i tal may also be made in U.S. do l l a rs u n d er an ag reement between the member c e n t r al b a n ks of the Cen t ral Am e r i c an C lea r ing House and the B ank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments There is no impo rt l icen s ing and a ll impo rt payments may be made f r e e l y, subject to submission of evidence of p r ior reg is t ra t ion (see b e low ), except for goods o r i g i n a t i ng in CACM coun t r ies or Panama. However, c e r t a in impo r ts f r om CACM coun t r ies require prior a u t h o r i z a t i o n, and imports made on a barter basis r equ i re a ba r ter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the M i n i s t ry of Economy, Indu s t ry, and Commerce. To be e l ig ib le for fore ign exchange, orders for imports va lued at over US$300 must be registered w i th the Cen- t r al Bank upon con f i rm a t ion by the fore ign supplier, un le ss the goods o r ig ina te in CACM countries or P an am a. Impo r ts f rom South A f r i ca are prohibited. In add i t ion to any applicable customs du ty, the fol- l ow i ng taxes are levied on impor ts: ( 1) a stamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs du ty on commodities not covered by the common ex te rnal ta r i ff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 8 per cent ad valorem, from which ce r ta in essential items are exempt; and (3) a selective con sump t ion tax w i th a range of 10-100 per cent ad va lorem on impo r ts f r om outside the CACM and at lower rates on m a ny CACM imports. There is also a sma ll consu lar tax on cer ta in imports. Furthermore, most impo r ts o r ig in a t ing outside the CACM are subject to an impo rt surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable impo rt du ty, and a temporary import surcharge of 10-50 per cent ad va lorem ir. levied on many imports from coun t r ies o ther th an the CACM countries and Panama. Und er the provisions of the Central American Agree- m ent on Fiscal Incentives, Costa Rica grants duty exone ra t ions on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved indu s t r ial firms. Payments for Invisibles The pr ior approval of the Cen t ral Bank is requ ired for all sales of o f f ic ial fo re ign exchange for current invis- ibles; for ce r ta in t ravel exchange this approval is given by the Cen t ral Bank's representatives in the commercial banks, wh i le in all other cases the approval must be sought f rom the Cen t ral Bank's Depar tment of Inter- n a t i o n al Transactions. Any physical or ju r id ical person may purchase, sub- ject to p r ior approval by the Central Bank, exchange up to the equ iva lent of US$500 a remittance for any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution purpose and at any time, but not more often than once every three months. Foreign exchange for private travel may be purchased at agent banks up to US$1,000 a person a trip for trips of ten days (US$100 a day for shorter tr ips), upon presentation of passport and travel tickets; agent banks may sell additional amounts of US$75 a person a day, up to a total additional amount of US$3,000 a person a trip, subject to presentation of evidence of the length of the stay abroad. Travel exchange in excess of US$3,000 a person a trip must be approved by the Department of International Trans- actions. Withholding taxes of 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, are levied on remittances abroad of dividends and interest; interest on certain borrowing abroad (e.g., from government banks) is exempt. Resi- dents traveling abroad by air must pay a travel tax of 5 per cent of the value of the tickets plus <t 20 a trip; government officials, diplomats, minors, and students are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered as prescribed. Sur- render must take place by sale to the Central Bank or an agent bank. Exporters of nontraditional com- modities are entitled to tax credit certificates (CATs) corresponding to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which are freely negotiable. In addition, exporters of non- traditional commodities eligible for CATs may also receive certificates for increases in exports (CIEX) for 10 per cent of the increase in the f.o.b. value of exports over the preceding calendar year; the certificates are redeemable against cash at the Central Bank. Licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In addition to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of non- ferrous base metals ( f rom the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce); sugar (from the Agricul- tural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle (from the National Council of Produc t ion); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Boa rd ); Ind ian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay ( f rom the National Museum ); tobacco ( f rom the Tobacco Defense Boa rd ); lumber, root of ipecacuanha, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin ( f rom the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock); and coffee ( f rom the Coffee O f f ice ); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered within 15 days of receipt or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts COSTA RICA with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, which are calculated by deducting f rom their gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained du r ing the year from the ir transactions in Costa Rica; (2) the allowance for depreciation on the ir investment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on b a n a n as payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made du r ing the year that were necessary for the ir normal business in Costa Rica. There are taxes on most exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate within 15 days of accrual, with the exception of the following, which may be retained and used as "free market exchange": diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses; tourist expenditures; f am i ly remit- tances and other personal remittances; settlements on insurance claims, provided that the prem ium was paid through the free marke t; and commissions received by agents and representatives of foreign firms. Capital All capital transfers between residents and nonresi- dents may be made freely. Most such transactions are carried out in the free exchange market, since the Central Bank has discontinued the registration of capital for all new transactions involving capital inves tmen ts, credits, or loans, except those of the public sector (the Cen tral Governmen t, the bank ing system, and other official in s t i tu t ion s ). Foreign currency receipts from new private sector operations may be sold in the free exchange market and foreign exchange may be pur- chased in that market for the servicing of amortiza- tion and interest in connection with such operations. Credits granted by suppliers abroad for imports of commodities that fall due w i th in not more than 180 days may be registered with the Central Bank, and fore ign exchange from the official market is made available to settle the credit. Guaran tee endorsements and payment guarantees granted by banks w i th in the na t ional b ank ing system are hand led in the free ma rke t, and such exchange operations are for account and risk of the particular borrower. Loans granted by inter- na t ional financial agencies in whose capital Costa Rica holds a share, may be registered with the Cen tral Bank, so that their debt servicing may be effected w i th resources f rom the official market. Likewise, unde r tak ings which had access to off ic ial exchange for servicing purposes prior to December 19, 1978 continue to be en t i t led to purchase fore ign currency f rom the official marke t; where foreign loans were granted on an installment basis, additional amounts being disbursed continue to en joy the benefit of registration at the Central Bank un t il they are fu l ly paid. The National Council of External Financing is in charge of coordinating and negotiating all new fore ign 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA MCA loans on beha lf of the Cen tral Government, the cen- tra l ized agencies, and enterprises of the public sector. Foreign and domestic capital t rans fe r red f rom abroad may be deposited as time deposits with agent banks in the fo rm of specified foreign currencies'0' or be invested in cer t if ica tes of deposit denom ina ted in colones; such f u n d s, when they ma tu re, are repaid in the currency in wh ich the deposits were made. The sale of fore ign exchange f rom the official ma rket for the purpose of t ran s fe r r ing na t ional capital abroad is restricted. Agent banks have au thor i ty to sell exchange for ce r ta in inve s tmen ts approved by the M in i s t ry of Economy, Indus t ry, and Commerce, as well as the Cen tral Bank. All o ther t rans fe rs of na t ional capital abroad require that the foreign exchange outlay be au thor ized by the Central Bank. Such au thor iza t ion is not gran ted for t ran s fe rs of capital not required by ac tual l iab i l i t ies abroad and for ac tual liabilities which in the op in ion of the Central Bank cons t i tu te an u n j u s t i f i ed t r a n s f er of n a t ion al capital. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coin or bars as pa rt of the mone ta ry reserves in accord- ance with regulations established by its own Board. P r iva te physical and ju r id ical persons may negotiate free ly, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except na t ional archaeological treasures), provided the re is no in f r a c t ion of in t e rn a t ion al agreements. They may also hold gold in any fo rm in Costa Rica. The Cen t ral Bank does not supp ly gold to ar t is t ic or profes- s ional users. Changes during 1979 January 15. Decree No. 9486-H exempted certain e lec tr ical household appliances, ag r icu l tu ral chemicals, toys and games, and ag r icu l tu ral tools and equipment 3 Deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. from the selective consumption tax. This concession applied to 28 import classifications. March 20. Decree No. 10353-MEIC abolished the provisions in Executive Decree No. 2 (January 6, 1964) res tr ic t ing the free exportation of coconuts and coconut derivatives. March 27. Decree No. 9510 of the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce added fish (fresh or f ro z en ), shr imp, octopus, scallops, clams, snails, and other seafood to the list of products eligible for CATs und er the export promotion law. July 31. The Central Bank established the interest rates to be paid by commercial banks on foreign cur- rency deposits. For sight deposits the annual rate would be 8 per cent; for time deposits the rate .would be the London In te rbank Offered Rate (L IBOR) of comparable m a t u r i ty plus 0.25 per cent. August 28. The Central Bank approved an export financing program invo lv ing the commercial banks which were authorized to contract foreign financing in order to give cred it direct to ag r icu l tu ral or industrial pro- ducers, or to local export agents. Maturities of the fore ign loans might not exceed one year ( for exports of mach ine ry, five years) and the rate of interest might not exceed 1 per cent above the cost of the external f u n d s. Regardless of ma tu r i ty, however, exporters were required to repay the credit immediately following receipt of the re levant foreign exchange. September 10. The ad valorem du ty on sugar exports was modified, e l im ina t ing the fo rmer rate of 7.5 per cent and es tab l ish ing in its place five categories of duty, r ang ing f rom 1-9 per cent, depending on world market price levels (Decree No. 6392-H). September 18. Twenty-three import classifications, i n c l u d i ng bicycles, footwear, metal cylinders, and elec- t r ic lamps, were exempted f rom selective consumption taxes (Decree No. 10540-H). November 2. By Decree No. 10780-H the ad valorem du ty on cocoa exports was lowered from 16 per cent to 7 per cent. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. Cyprus follows a flexible exchange rate policy. The exchange rate for the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily with the aim of ma in ta in ing its effective relationship with the currencies of the main trading partners. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were US$2.8950 and US$2.8920, respectively, per <£C 1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound sterling. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies.1 There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases and sales of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six months, in respect of trade transactions only. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, and trade controls by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Authority to approve certain applications for the allocation of foreign exchange, w i th in the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank, has been delegated to authorized dealers. Authority to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Prescription of Currency Payments to countries other than the People's Repub- lic of China and Rhodesia may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency2 other than Rhodesian currency; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account, or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Settlements with the People's Republic of China must be made through the appropriate clearing account denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus other than Rhodesia may maintain with authorized banks non- resident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs (commercial), Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 3 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. Accounts, or foreign currency accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Cyprus, with transfers from other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales by nonresidents of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. External Accounts and for- eign currency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency; however, the delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against External Accounts or foreign currency accounts is prohibited, with the exception of sales for travel purposes to non- resident individuals, to members of foreign embassies, and to members of the UN forces in Cyprus (up to the equivalent of <£C 50 a tr ip). Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rho- desia and are subject to separate rules. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a non- resident for certain funds of a capital na ture which may not be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securi- ties or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or be credited to an External Account without prior reference to the Central Bank. Funds can be released f rom Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances: on application by the author- ized bank concerned acting on behalf of the nonresident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked funds for (1) reasonable educational expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children; (2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder wh i le on a visit to Cyprus; and (3) donations to chari- table institutions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), amounts up to a level deter- mined f rom time to time may become eligible for release. The Central Bank is prepared to permit the release of blocked funds to each nonresident holder up to £C 1,000 in any calendar year. Imports and import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of virtually all commodities may be made freely from any other country except Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, Tibet, and Viet Nam for which import licenses are required. For protective reasons, certain goods (such as some agricultural and textile products, footwear, metal manufactures, and industrial machinery) may not be imported freely; for 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports from Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania are licensed in accordance with the terms of bilateral trade and /or payments agreements. With respect to Albania, North Korea, Mongolia, Tibet, and Viet Nam, no formal trading arrangements exist but certain barter transactions take place from time to time. Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts (which may not be sold) up to <£C 10 in value, for return goods, or for certain special import transactions. Payments for all permitted imports may be made without prior approval from the Exchange Control Sec- tion of the Central Bank after arrival of the goods or after receipt of a full set of shipping documents. Advance payments require prior approval from the Exchange Control Section, except for imports whose value does not exceed <£C 100. Payments for imports free from licensing requirements effected after 200 days from the date of shipment require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Payments for imports requiring a license must be made within the time limits specified on the license, except with the approval of the Central Bank. An import surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feedstuff, Pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurance companies are remittable after deduc- tion of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Family maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed, generally only for the purpose of preventing illicit capital outflow. For study abroad, allowances normally are granted only for study at colleges, universities, and other educational institutions recommended by the Ministry of Education. The lower limit is <£C 1,200 a year, and the upper limit is <£C 2,600 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of living and the cost of tuition in the country concerned—e.g., for study in countries in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East (defined as Egypt, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, etc.), <£C 1,200; in Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States, <£C 2,600; and in all other countries, <£C 2,400. Higher amounts may be granted on presentation of documentary evidence. For tourist travel, the limit is <£C 300 a per- son annually; for business travel, £C 20 to <£C 80 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic 118 tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus currency notes up to <£C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of <£C75, the latter as part of their annual basic travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out <£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley, to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports of cement are subject to a license for the pur- pose of ensuring adequate domestic supply. All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds <£C 100 to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Export proceeds must be surrendered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank without delay. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to <£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts or payments. Capital receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer; payments of a capital nature to any destination require prior approval. Outward port- folio investment is not normally permitted, and only specified types of outward direct investment (e.g., for export promotion) are approved. Foreign investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering applications due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in full at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nationals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may transfer abroad up to £C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and of the sales proceeds of real estate is limited to <£C 1,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. In prin- ciple, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Foreign life insurance policies not covered by the Insurance Law must be deposited with an authorized dealer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1979 March 1. The excise duty on imported motor vehicles with an engine capacity exceeding 1,500 cubic centi- meters was increased by 20 per cent. March 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Romania was replaced by a trade agreement. After a transitional period of one year, all payments between Cyprus and Romania would be effected in freely con- vertible currencies. October 25. The bilateral payments agreement with Hungary was terminated with effect from December 31, 1979 and was replaced by a trade agreement from J anu a ry 1, 1980. After a transitional period of six weeks all payments between Cyprus and Hungary would be effected in freely convertible currencies. November 20. The Council of the EC decided to extend, until the end of 1980, the "first phase" of the 7 Agreement Establishing an Association between the Economic Communities and the Republic of Cyprus, which was due to expire at the end of 1979. The com- mercial regime with respect to the importation of certain agricultural products into the EC would continue to be applied in 1980. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Denma rk is the Danish Krone. Den- ma rk participates w i th Be lg ium, France, the Federal Republic of Ge rmany, I re land, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Ne the r lands in the exchange rate and in terven t ion mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance w i th th is agreement, D enm a rk m a i n- ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants w i t h in marg ins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the I ta l ian l i ra, 6 per cen t) above or below the cross rates based on the cen t ral rates expressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs). The agreement imp l i es that the N a t i o n al Bank of Denma rk ( the cen t ral b a n k) s tands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other pa r t ic ipa t ing states in u n l im i t ed amoun ts at specified in t e rv en t ion rates. On December 31, 1979 these rates were Specified In t e rv en t ion Danish Kroner Rates Per: Upper l im it Lower l im it 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 19.8520 18.9785 lOOdeu t sche ma rk 318.26 304.23 100 French francs 135.095 129.15 1 00 Netherlands guilders 287.90 275.245 100 Irish pounds 1,182.14 1,130.13 100 I ta l ian l ire 0.70830 0.62825 The par t ic ipan ts in the EMS are not m a i n t a i n i ng the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper fun c t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluc- tuations in exchange rates, the in terven t ion currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Selling rates for 18 fore ign currencies are quoted da i ly on the basis of market rates.1 On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DK r5 .3615 and DKr 5.3685, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward. Spot transactions are defined as transactions where actual delivery takes place w i th in two b ank ing days; transactions which ma ture in three bank- ing days or more are defined as forward transactions. Spot transactions in all currencies, in c lud ing Danish kroner, and forward transactions invo lv ing purchases of foreign currencies against sales of foreign currencies, may be concluded free ly w i th domestic and fore ign banks. Forward transactions wh ich involve Danish 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, deutsche m a rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Icelandic k ronu r, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 120 kroner may also be concluded, but for not more than two years; fur thermore, special rules apply for the fo rw a rd sale of fore ign currencies against Danish k roner to fore ign correspondents and for forward dealings against Danish k roner w i th non res ident customers. For- ward p rem iums and discounts are generally left to the in te rp lay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents which involve Danish kroner must cover con- t rac tual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the fo rwa rd contract. Forward transactions with resident customers, which do not involve Danish kroner, must also cover either claims or liabilities in one of the two currencies concerned, but the requirements with respect to contractual payments are less strict in this case. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank and the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., most banks, some savings banks, and some stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The exchange regulations generally do not app ly to ind iv idual transactions and transfers of DKr 5,000 or less. Transfers of up to DKr 5,000 may, in any case, be made without delivery of forms. Per- mission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained f rom the Ministry of Industry. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Industry, the M in i s t ry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The on ly exceptions are Emigrant Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for fore ign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for specified official institutions of the EC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, provided that the total credit balance of the accounts of an ind iv idual nonresident does not exceed DKr 200,000; any amount in excess of DKr 200,000 must be trans- ferred abroad w i th in three days. Special accounts not subject to a max imum balance may be opened for non- residents, provided they are credited only with the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution l iqu ida t ion proceeds or cap i tal earn ings f r om c e r t a in inves tmen ts in D enm a rk and some other f u n d s. Em ig r ant Accoun ts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for ho ld ing l iqu id assets owned by or acc ru ing to Dan ish em igran ts, to the extent that the amoun ts exceed the exchange a l lowance of DKr 40,000 ava i lab le to each person at the t ime of depa r tu re. Certain payments to residents may be made free ly f rom these accounts and the balances are in any case made convertible one year a f t er depar ture. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities, except for textiles, are free of licensing f rom all sources. For textiles, a common EC system of expo r t / impo rt licenses has now been estab- lished for almost all coun tr ies expo r t ing low-priced textiles. The on ly commodities that requ ire a license when o r i g i n a t i ng in or purchased f rom member coun- tries of the EC are ag r icu l tu ral products, alcohol, and unw rought and s em im anu f a c tu r ed gold. A few items requ ire a license when o r ig in a t ing in Japan, the Repub l ic of Korea, or any other non-state-trading, non-EC coun t ry. A larger number of items require a license when o r ig ina t ing in or purchased f rom A lb an i a, Bu lgar ia, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the Ger- man Democratic Repub l ic, Hung a ry, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., or Viet N am. Payments for imports and the related sh ipp ing expenses may be made free ly w i t h in five years (seven years for ships and eight years for heavy mach ine ry and major installations purchased for an amount of DKr 1 m i l l ion or more) f rom the end of the mon th in which the goods were cleared through customs, pro- vided that the terms of payment Con fo rm to no rmal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Repaymen ts of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day s t ipu la ted as the latest in the contract (or before the latest cus tomary date in the t r a d e ). However, com- mercial credits can be repaid at any t ime if a d iscount is obtained as a result, provided the payment is made to the supp l ier and conforms to normal commercial prac- tice in the trade concerned. Prepayments l inked to trade in goods and services that are in con fo rm i ty w i th no rmal commercial practice may be granted to non- residents up to one year prior to the expected date of import or the expected date of performance of the service; the permitted period is up to five years for capital goods (sh ips, a i rc ra f t, heavy m a ch in e ry, and ma jor in s t a l l a t ion s) when purchased for an amount of DKr 1 m i l l i on or more. All other advance payments for impor ts requ i re p r ior approval by the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments by residents for most inv is ib les may be made freely; on ly a few cases requ i re approval f rom the Na t ional Bank. Au tho r ized banks are empowered to a l low the t r an s f er up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of fo re ign na t iona ls' wages and sa lar ies earned in Den- DENMARK m a r k, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denma rk for more than three years and the t r an s f er is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier t h an 30 days before the t r ip if the amount applied for exceeds the equ iva lent of DKr 5,000. Travelers may take out free ly DKr 5,000 in Danish bankno tes and coin, and any amount in foreign bank- notes or other means of paymen t. Nonresidents may, in add i t ion, export any amount of Danish bankno tes and coin der ived f rom sales of fore ign currency in Denma rk or b rought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold is the on ly commodity that requires a license when exported to member coun tr ies of the EC. W i th respect to other des t ina t ions, except for certain items subject to s tra teg ic controls, export licenses are required o n ly for waste and scrap of ce r ta in me ta ls and mone tary gold. Expo rt proceeds must be t rans fe r red to Denma rk w i t h o ut u n d ue de lay un less the N a t ion al Bank perm i ts otherwise. However, th is obligation does not apply to amoun ts wh i ch are to be used w i t h in 30 days to settle or to offset ce r ta in commercial and capital payments; otherwise, fo re ign exchange receipts must either be offered for sale to the N a t ion al Bank or to an authorized exchange dea ler w i thout u n d ue de lay, or kept in an account w i th an authorized exchange dealer for a m a x im um period of 30 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived f r om inv is ib les must be t r an s f e r r ed to Denma rk, unless the N a t ion al Bank per- m i ts o therw ise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an au tho r ized exchange dealer w i thout undue delay, w i th excep t ions s im i l ar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, abov e ). Trave lers may b r ing in any amount of Danish b ankno t es and co in, fore ign bankno tes, and other Dan ish or fore ign means of paymen t. Capital Both i nw a rd and ou twa rd t ran s fe rs of cap i tal and a ll bo r row ing and l e n d i ng between residents and non- res iden ts are subject to exchange control and may be res t r ic ted. L icens ing prac t ice vis-a-vis r e s id en ts of mem- ber coun t r i es of the EC is based on EC d irec t ives on cap i tal movemen ts, subject to cer ta in exceptions, and l i c e n s i ng p rac t ice in respect of residents of the rest of the wo r ld as a ru le is s im i l a r. Res iden ts have an obliga- t ion to repa t r ia te proceeds realized f rom the sale or l i q u i d a t i on of assets abroad. T rans fe rs abroad may be made by res iden ts to pay in t e r e st on, or to redeem upon m a t u r i t y, or to repurchase any Dan ish secu r i t ies denom ina ted exc lus ive ly in Danish k roner as we ll as the t ran s fe ro r 's own bonds irrespective of d e n om i n a t i on (provided these bonds are quoted on 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK an authorized stock exchange ab road ). Residents may lend amoun ts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subs id iary companies (direct investments of loan cap i ta l) or to a member of the resident's fam i ly. Con- t r ibu t ions f rom a pa rent enterprise to a branch may not be made as loans or grants but are treated as direct inves tment of equ i ty cap i ta l. Portfolio inves tment abroad is generally not allowed. However, residents may buy foreign securities that do not represent direct invest- ments in foreign commercial or indus tr ial enterprises, provided that these are acquired on the basis of a sub- scr ip t ion right to shares or the l ike owned by the resident concerned, or that the resident fu rn i shes proof that he has sold fore ign securities to a nonres ident for a corre- spond ing amount w i th in the last 12 months. Residents may subscribe to or purchase fore ign bonds w i th an original m a tu r i ty above two years, listed on a stock exchange and issued by specified in terna t ional organ iza- tions of which Denma rk is a member. The purchases have to be made through an authorized exchange dealer aga inst cash, and sale or redemp t ion does not en t i t le the seller to reinvest the proceeds in other foreign securities. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad, within certain limits, in connec- tion w i th most direct investments or with private acqui- sitions of real estate abroad. The l im i ts are DKr 200,000 a year for each foreign enterprise for direct inves tmen ts of equity cap i ta l2 and DKr 60,000 a person for pr iva te acquisition of real estate for noncommercial purposes (DKr 150,000 for health reasons). Direct investments abroad by residents are norma l ly approved in accord- ance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EC and the OECD. The private acqu is i t ion of real estate in excess of DKr 60,000 normally is approved in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EC. Authorized exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to nonresidents for the financing of payments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services, provided norma l ly that the loan is gran ted directly to the fo r e ign pu rchase r; in those cases where the National Bank's approval is required, this is generally given when the loans are customary in the trade concerned. Permission f rom the Na t ional Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person at the t ime of depar ture. The rema in ing liquid assets mu st be credited to an Em igrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year af ter departure, or earlier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad with the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct investment in the fo rm of equity capital may be made without any special license if the 2 A license is requ ired, however, for investments in firms which exclusively or largely are engaged in capital investments or financing. 122 inves tment does not increase total direct foreign invest- ment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 1 m i l l ion in each calendar year. However, invest- ments in firms that are engaged exclusively or largely in capital investments abroad or the financing of nonres iden ts con t inue to be subject to license. In addi- t ion, a license is required if the investment is undertaken by a fore ign firm in which a resident directly or ind i r e c t ly owns an interest represen t ing a direct invest- men t. Direct investments must be notified to the N a t ion al Bank if they are made without a special license. Inw a rd d irect inves tmen ts in the fo rm of loans with a m a t u r i ty of at least five years also are exempt f rom spe- cial licenses w i th in certain l im i ts. Contributions from a pa rent en terpr ise to a branch may not be made as a loan or a g rant but are treated as direct investment of equ i ty cap i ta l. Other direct investments by nonresidents require pe rm iss ion f r om the exchange control authorities, which is g ran ted l ib e r a l ly in accordance w i th Denmark's obli- gations as a member of the EC and the OECD. The purchase by a non re s ident of real property in Denmark n o rm a l ly requires a special license from the M in i s t ry of Justice; permission is usually granted readily where real estate is to be used for industrial or similar enterprises. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special license, except that nonresidents are not permitted to purchase Danish Government krone bonds issued since 1975 without permission from the National Bank. Such permission is not no rma l ly granted. Bonds denominated only in Danish kroner may be resold to residents. Nonresidents may freeiy purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, provided the purchase does not represent a direct investment; this l ibe ra l iza t ion does not apply to certificates of investment companies, etc., whose latest balance sheet shows that more than 10 per cent of their assets are securities other than stock exchange securities. Residents may take up loans for up to five years (seven years for ships and eight years for heavy mach inery and major installations valued at DKr 1 mil- lion or more) f rom nonresidents to finance imports of commodities and services and the gran t ing of credits for exports of commodities and services, provided the credit is in conform i ty with normal commercial practice. Enter- prises in most indus tr ies may take up loans of up to DKr 20 m i l l ion a borrower in a calendar year, pro- vided that the m a tu r i ty is at least five years and that the en t i re proceeds are used only to finance fixed investment e i ther in the borrower's own business in Denmark or in a bus iness unde r tak ing in Denmark which is controlled by the borrower. Most business investments may fo rm the basis of such loans, i.e., investments in business or indu s t r i al premises, and the acquisition of p lan t, machin- ery, and most t ranspo rt equipment,3 and provided that a Inves tment in ships, exceeding 100 gross registered tons, and air- craft may be effected only w i th special approval from the National Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the assets are delivered w i th in 6 months prior to the date the loan is repatriated, or contracted to be delivered w i th in 12 months following that date. Finally, a resident may take up loans of up to DKr 200,000 a borrower in a calendar year f rom members of his own f am i ly. Foreign borrowing by municipalities and public u t i l i ty companies is subject to control by the appropriate department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of all types of investments and transfers of all other l iqu id funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than new emigrants are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of pr inc ipal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received f rom persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained f rom a nonresident generally must not be amortized or repaid in fu ll more than 30 days before the amo r t iza t ion payment or repayment is due. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Ind iv idual payments above DKr 5,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives are subject to approval from the Na t ional Bank. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regulation, the details of which are established by the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are norma l ly also permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with the principal exception of bonds denominated wholly or partly in foreign currencies, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the Na t ional Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations are not c ircumven ted. Authorized foreign exchange dealers' commercial net balances in accounts with foreign countries may be negative to the extent of an amount equal to the loans which the authorized dealer has granted to residents in foreign currency in conformity w i th the exchange control regulations, and for the purpose of financing Denmark's foreign trade, within a limit of DKr 3 million, DENMARK but for banks and savings banks the limit is up to 5 per cent of net worth. A positive net commercial foreign position is, in principle, allowed only so long as it does not exceed DKr 2 million or, for banks and savings banks, 15 per cent of the capital and reserves, whichever is higher. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coin in Denmark; they may also import gold coin. Otherwise, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus t r ial users. Imports of gold in bars or coin, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 20.25 per cent; the customs duty is 7.5 per cent, unless the import is made f rom EFTA or EC countries, when it is duty free. Domestic transactions also are taxed at a rate of 20.25 per cent. Changes during 1979 February 6. It was announced that nonresidents were no longer permitted to purchase f rom residents Danish Government krone bonds issued since 1975 except with permission f rom the Na t ional Bank. Such permission would not no rma l ly be granted. March 13. Denmark's par t ic ipa t ion in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS became effective. September 24. The EMS parities of the deutsche mark were increased by 5 per cent against the Danish krone and by 2 per cent against the other participating cur- rencies. This imp l ied a devaluation of the Danish krone by 4.76 per cent against the deutsche mark and by 2.86 per cent against the other participating currencies. November 30. The EMS parities of the par t ic ipa t ing currencies against the Danish krone were increased by 5 per cent. This implied a devaluation of the Danish krone by 4.76 per cent against the other par t ic ipa t ing currencies. December 22. Restrictions on transactions with Rhodesia were l if ted in accordance with the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of D j ibou ti is the Djibouti Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. do l lar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 = US$1. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are DF 176.84 and DF 179.48, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currenc iesl are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in in terna t ional markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 1.5-6 per cent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency con- cerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and no prescription of currency. The Dijbouti franc is issued by the Djibouti Treasury, which operates in this respect as a currency board, issuing and redeeming the currency against receipts and payments of U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Djibouti but the territory as a whole does not constitute a free 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. zone. No customs du ty is charged on imports, but in practice fiscal duties are levied by means of indirect taxes of 22 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports. Only a limited number of foods tuffs, fertilizers, and books are exempt f rom tax. Certain commodities, including alcoholic beverages, hydrocarbons, kat, and tobacco, are subject to surtaxes at various rates. Exports and Export Proceeds There are v ir tua l ly no restrictions on exports; only exports of live animals are prohibited. Export proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers. Under the Investment Code of June 5, 1975, enterprises established or expanded to undertake certain specific economic activities are entitled to vari- ous tax exemptions. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Dominica is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Cur- rency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.68 and EC$2.717, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes da i ly rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Finance and applies to all countries outside the East Caribbean Currency Au thor i ty area. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) 2 must be made either through Ex ternal Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country con- cerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened with the permission of the M in is t ry of Finance. They are ma in ta ined in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited with pro- ceeds f rom the sale of foreign currencies, w i th transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the M in is try of Finance. They may be debited for payments to residents and for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license. Certain other commodities require ind iv idual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Advance payments for imports require prior approval 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua, Grenada, Mon tserra t, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. a The CAR ICOM coun tr ies are An t igu a, Barbados, Belize, Dom in ica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. :l Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. by the M in is t ry of Finance. Most imports are subject to a s tamp tax of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue. Payments for Invisibles Under the Exchange Control Ord inance of 1973, pay- ments for trave l, medical treatment, education, subscrip- tion and membership fees, gifts, and the transfer of prof i ts abroad are subject to quan t i ta t ive l im i ta t ions. All other payments exceeding EC$50 require approval by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Similarly, all transactions w i th Rhodesia also require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents of Dominica may purchase foreign exchange f rom authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$5,000 a t r ip for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Area, subject to presentation of evidence of in ten t ion to travel. The amount of local currency that may be taken out by travelers is l im i ted to EC$50 a trip. For business travel, add i t ional allowances of foreign exchange may be made available at a rate not exceeding EC$250 a day up to a max imum of EC$7,500 a trip. Residents t rave l ing abroad for medical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$350 a day up to a maxi- mum of EC$20,000, as a supp lement to the basic travel allowance, provided that a medical certificate is pre- sented. Educa t ion allowances up to a max imum of EC$15,000 an academic year are permitted to cover the cost of en ro l lmen t, tu i t ion, accommodation, and books. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$ 1,000 a donor a year. App l ica t ions for add i t ional amounts, or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation, are norma l ly approved by the M in is t ry of Finance, provided that no unauthor- ized t rans fer of capital is involved. Profits may be remitted in f u l l, subject to conf irma t ion of registration by the Comm iss ioner of I n l a nd Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited and specific licenses are required for the export of cer- t a in goods to any destination. The collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on bananas, c i t rus f ru i t s, and other selected agricultural products. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the fore ign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles is mandatory. Travelers to Dom in ica may br ing in freely notes and coin denomi- nated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign cur- 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA rency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval which normally is granted subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the East Carib- bean Currency Area may transfer up to EC$20,000 (in respect of a husband, wife, and children under 18) from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. The Ministry of Finance will consider applications for remittance of amounts in excess of EC$20,000. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remit- tance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coin for numismatic purposes only. Imports of gold, under license by the Ministry of Finance, are permitted for industrial purposes only. Changes during 1979 February 26. Dominica acceded to the Lome Con- vention. September 1. The basic allowance for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Area was raised from EC$ 1,500 to EC$5,000 a trip. For business travel the allowance was raised to a maximum of EC$250 a day and EC$7,500 a trip. The allowance for medical treat- ment abroad was increased from EC$200 to EC$350 a day up to a maximum of EC$20,000, as a supplement to the basic travel allowance. The limit on education allow- ances was raised to EC$ 15,000 an academic year and emigrants leaving Dominica might transfer EC$20,000 from their assets (previously EC$5,000) on departure, subject to income tax clearance. December 10. The 2.5 per cent exchange tax on sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks was abolished. December 13. Dominica formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Articles of Agreement. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Dom in ican Republic is the Dominican Peso, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RD$1 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at RD$1 = US$1, plus a commission of 0.03125 per cent. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the rate of RD$1 = US$1, subject to b a n k i ng commissions of 0.25 per cent buying and 0.5 per cent selling; m inor exchange transactions w i th tourists and other travelers from abroad are free of any b ank ing commissions or other service charges. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for cer ta in other currencies are also quoted, based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar in markets abroad. All paymen ts abroad at the off ic ial exchange rate must be made through banks; all exchange received must be sold to banks and banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. Payments for which foreign exchange is not sold at the official exchange rate are made through a tolerated free market, in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely; this market is supplied by foreign exchange receipts that are not surrendered at the official exchange rate. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates in this parallel market were RD$ 1.2225 and RD$ 1.2375, respectively, per US$1. D ifferent effective exchange rates also arise from the requ irement of a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit for certain imports. On August 1, 1953 the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is determined by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. The Monetary Board establishes import quotas, which are administered and controlled by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Certain releases of foreign exchange require the express authorization of the President of the Republic. Export controls are administered by the Dom in ican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX ). Prescription of Currency Imports f rom the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settle- ments with Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Mexico, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements w i th in the framework of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) .1 Import payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made th rough a letter of credit. Otherwise, no obli- gations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regarding the currency to be used for payments to or f rom nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be classified broad ly into the fo l low ing categories: ( 1) impo r ts for which the b ank ing system sells fore ign exchange in unrestricted amounts at the off ic ial exchange rate; (2) imports for which the bank- ing system sells foreign exchange only up to annual quotas; and (3) all other imports for which foreign exchange is purchased in the tolerated free market. All paymen ts for imports at the official exchange rate requ i re the approval of the Central Bank. Licensing controls are ma in ta ined over a few commodities for reasons of health or secur i ty. Insurance on imports must be contracted w i th compan ies au thor ized to operate in the Dominican Republic. Commodities subject to annual quotas may be imported and settled w i th official exchange only against a f u l ly prepaid letter of credit. The same requirement applies to some other goods that are not subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions, inc lud ing specified canned fish, olives and capers, alcoholic beverages, and certain types of plywood and doors. Some other import items not subject to restrictions must be covered by regular letters of credit. The commercial banks transm it to the Central Bank each day a list of applications for all imports against letters of credit. A f ter the Central Bank approves an app l ica t ion, the letter of credit may be opened by the commercial bank. For prepaid letters of credit the Central Bank debits the account of the commercial banks for the peso equivalent at the time of approval of the letter of credit. The peso equivalent of other letters of credit is forwarded to the Central Bank after these have been negotiated and exchange is requested by the commercial bank. At times, the Central Bank may delay payment of fore ign exchange to commercial banks for previously approved requests for exchange. If the request was made for an import for which a commercial bank had opened a letter of credit, the commercial bank provides the fore ign exchange and extends a credit to the Central Bank for the amount involved. If the request was for a direct paymen t, a bank d ra f t, or a t rans fer of foreign exchange, the delay in payment represents a commercial arrear. At the end of 1979 such arrears represented about four weeks of applications. Imports are classified according to the Brussels ta r i ff nomenclature. Ad valorem and specific import duties are levied on impor ts according to three general and 1 These agreements provide swing limits of va ry ing amoun ts but settlements must be made in f u ll at the end of every four months. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC numerous specific laws. Ad va lorem import duties range from 20 per cent to 200 per cent, but the max imum import du ty is considerably higher (about 700 per cent) if specific duties are taken into account. An internal consump t ion tax of 20 per cent ad valorem and a 4 per cent surcharge on the total amount of all customs charges also are applied to all imports except those subject to the m i n im um du ty of 20 per cent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the p r ior approval of the Central Bank which ensures that the application is for a bona fide transac t ion. However, foreign exchange at the official rate is sold only for a limited number of payments for cu r rent invisibles. For some of these invisibles, o f f ic ial fore ign exchange is sold up to specified limits. Thus, nonresident foreign nationals work ing in the Dom in ican Repub l ic in industries and firms that contribute to the coun try's economic develop- ment may remit abroad at the off ic ial exchange rate up to 40 per cent of the ir salaries. For students pursu ing approved courses, exchange requests for mon th ly main- tenance allowances are approved up to US$240 for Puerto Rico, up to US$250 for Spain, up to US$300 for other European countries, and up to US$270 for all other countries; an additional allocation of US$50 a mon th, irrespective of coun try, is available for post- graduate students. Exchange is also sold for remittances to authorized students to meet expenses for tu i t ion, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered w i th the Central Bank, are approved in con- fo rm i ty with the terms of the contract. Transfers of prof i ts and d iv idends are pe rm i t ted on ly for foreign investments that have been registered in the Central Bank and may not exceed 18 per cent a year of the net value of the original and any additional investment, in c lud ing reinvested profits. D iv idends remitted or credited to nonresidents are subject to a tax of 18 per cent and a sur tax of 3 per cent of the amount of the tax. Some de lays have occurred in the p rov i s ion of fo re ign exchange to commercial banks by the Central Bank for approved requests for paymen ts for inv is ib les. At the end of 1979 there was an accumu la t ion of about five weeks of such app l ica t ions. Paymen ts for invisibles for wh ich fo re ign exchange is not sold at the official rate, or in excess of the l im i ts specified, are made th rough the free exchange marke t. Such t ransac t ions inc lude, in pa r t icu la r, expenses for tou r ist and business travel abroad, insurance prem iums, and rem i t tances for f am i ly l i v i ng expenses. All commissions due to domestic agents or representa- tives of fo re ign firms a r is ing f rom impo r ts must be paid in Dom in ican pesos. A i r l i ne t icke ts also must be paid in local cu r rency and are sub ject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RD$200, or f rom RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. 128 In pr inc ip le, exchange for payments for invisibles is made available w i th in five days from receipt of the application. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of 28 products or subproducts, ma in ly food- s tu f f s, are prohibited, and 38 others, m a in ly intermediate goods, require export licenses. A ll exports of sugar and sugar by-products are subject to p r ior authorization by a special committee. W i th in two wo rk ing days of receiv- ing paymen t, exporters of Dom in ican products must su r render to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of their exports. For the purpose of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m i n im um export prices established by CEDOPEX. Exempt from the exchange surrender requ i remen ts are firms operating in indus t r ial free zones, which are required to convert only the foreign exchange that is needed to cover local costs and taxes. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days from the date of sh ipment w i thout au tho r iza t ion by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coin is prohibited. Capital Inwa rd capital remittances are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Foreign Inves tment and must be converted in to pesos through commercial banks. Law No. 861 of Ju ly 22, 1978 consolidated and amplified the regu la t ions govern ing direct foreign investments issued und er Law No. 251 (and accompanying Regulation No. 1679) of May 11, 1964, and created the Directorate of Foreign Investment. Such investments must be regis- tered w i th the Central Bank for the investor to be able to r em it d iv idends through the o f f ic ial exchange market; rem i t tances are limited to an annual max imum of 18 per cent of the registered value and are converted into fo re ign exchange at the prevailing rate of exchange. D iv idends in excess of the annual l im it may be rein- vested but are not registered with the Central Bank as increased fore ign capital; alternatively, in accordance w i th Law No. 861, they may be loaned in local currency to en terpr ises u n d e r t a k i ng approved economic activities, provided that the loan ma tu r i ty is not less than eight years, that the in terest rate is not more than 6 per cent, and that the year ly amor t iza t ion does not exceed more th an 20 per cent of the amount of the loan. Fur ther- more, d iv id ends f rom re inves tmen ts of amor t iza t ion and in terest paymen ts on the loans men t ioned above may not exceed 30 per cent of the fo re ign exchange ea rn ings of the recipient enterprises. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Law No. 861 assigns p r io r i ty to investments in the export sector or in any other sector which would con- t r ibu te to an improvement in the balance of payments; it also reserves certain sectors (defense and national security, all means of mass commun ica t ion, in ternal land and air t ranspo r ta t ion, and fo res t ry) for domestic enterprises; certain other sectors (agr icu l ture, poultry and livestock raising, fishery, financial intermediation, and insu rance) are reserved for domestic enterprises or "mixed enterprises" (i.e., where na t ional ownership is between 51 and 70 per cen t ). Registration may cover, besides the foreign exchange involved, the value of mach inery and equ ipmen t, tools, instruments, acces- sories, and spare parts. Upon the liquidation of a direct foreign investment, capital gains may be remitted up to a l im it of 2 per cent per a n n um for a cumu la t ive total of 20 per cent of the registered amount. Applications for approval of outward capital remittances must be sub- mitted to the Directorate of Foreign Investment. App l i- cations by residents to transfer capital abroad to make por tfo l io investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not norma l ly approved. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government with the prior authorization of the Con- gress. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities are authorized by the Monetary Board in order to guarantee the provision of official foreign exchange for service of the loans. Foreign contracts by the private bank and nonbank sectors are approved by the Central Bank according to the follow- ing scale of priorities: export promotion, import sub- stitution, expansion of local production, and import financing. For the second and third categories, foreign loans are not authorized if the repayment schedule is less than four years. For import financing, the repay- ment term of foreign loans must be less than 180 days, except for capital goods. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in DOMINICAN REPUBLIC the Dom in ican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and i n d u s t r i al users. Changes during 1979 April 3. The p roh ib i t ion on impor ts of automobiles v a lu ed at more than US$4,000 per u n it was extended th rough J a n u a ry 22, 1981. April 3. The impor ta t ion of ce r ta in products was p roh ib i ted in order to protect domestic industries. The fo l low ing items were added to the prohibited l is t: men's and boys' c lo th ing, shoes, and belts; noodles aiid spaghe t t i; canned vegetables; fresh or frozen fish; f r u it ju ice s; sauces (except m a y o n n a i s e ); cocoa and cocoa by-produc ts; bu t te r; yogu rt and cream; c e r t a in b iscu i ts; soap and detergents. April 24. The list of proh ib i ted impor ts was extended to inc lude girls' c lo th ing, f u r n i t u r e, mattresses, cards, and calendars. May 10. The Mone tary Board added to the lis* of impo r ts, for wh ich fo re ign exchange is not supplied at the o f f ic ial exchange market rate, a range of products up to an estimated value of US$50 m i l l ion of annual imports. August 23. The Monetary Board permitted the ear- m a r k i ng of fore ign exchange at the official fore ign exchange rate for imports of cer ta in goods, inc lud ing some iron and steel in termed ia te items. Also, quotas were established for two other categories of imports. October 4. In order to ma in ta in supplies to the domestic market a f ter the disruption caused by hurr i- canes, CEDOPEX tempo ra r i ly prohibited exports of most agr icu l tural products, inc lud ing all kinds of meat. November 8. Congress approved a law providing spe- cial incentives for exporters of nontraditional products, inc lud ing a tax credit certificate of up to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the exported product (or the c. & f. value when insurance is provided by Dominican enter- prises or the c.i.f. value when both insurance and trans- po r ta t ion are p rov ided ), and an exemption f rom the obligation to surrender fore ign exchange earn ings to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are two exchange markets, the official market and the free market. In the official marke t, the Central Bank of Ecuador m a i n t a i ns rates of S/ 24.80 buy ing and S/ 24.95 selling, per US$1. The buy ing and se l l ing rates for other currencies ! are o f f ic ia l ly quoted on the basis of daily buy ing and se l l ing rates against the U.S. do l lar in foreign markets. Export proceeds, import payments, certain settlements of invisibles, government and public sector transactions, and some capital transactions of the private sector are negotiated in the official marke t. With some exceptions (see be low ), all other transac t ions are conducted in the free market, in wh ich the exchange rate fluctuates but where the Central Bank intervenes mainly for the purpose of avoiding sharp exchange rate fluctuations. The free market buy ing and selling rates on December 31, 1979 were S /26 .72 and S /27 .03, respectively, per US$1. A few transactions (such as payments for printed ma te r ia l) may be made in either of the two markets. In addition, loan capital from in terna t ional agencies and foreign governments to the Government and public institutions is converted at the rate of S/ 25 per US$1. Exchange transactions of oil companies are also effected at the rate of S/ 25 per US$1. Private oil companies are subject to an exchange tax of 1 per cent applied to both purchases and sales, but state oil companies are exempt with respect to purchases and sales of foreign currencies for compensation operations. External loans are subject to a tax that varies between 0.5 per cent and 2 per cent for maturities of 6 months to 24 months. Exempted from this tax are ( 1) loans of more than 24 months; (2) loans from foreign govern- ments and in terna t ional agencies; (3) loans to the public sector; and (4) suppliers' credits invo lv ing no inflow of foreign exchange. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Ar t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has authority to sh ift transac- tions between the two exchange markets and has exten- sive powers with respect to import policy. The official exchange market is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses and registers foreign capital. Imports 1 Argentine pesos, Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Canadian dollars, Ch i lean pesos, Colombian pesos, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Paraguayan gua ran ies, Peruv ian soles, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U ruguayan new 'pesos, and Venezuelan bolivares. 130 entering the country as part of a direct investment and impor ts by foreign enterprises which have contracts w i th the Government require prior authorization by the M in i s t ry of Indus try, Commerce, and Integration and, when exemptions f rom fiscal charges are sought, by the M in i s t ry of Finance. However, all applications for impo rt licenses by industrial firms must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign investment in Ecuador is supervised by the Foreign Investment Council. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hunga ry, Poland, and Romania take place through bilateral accounts. There is a reciprocal credit agree- ment w i th Argentina. Payments between Ecuador and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela must be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA). Exchange proceeds f rom other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential goods (Group A) and semiessential goods (G roup B), and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not inc luded in these two lists are prohibited. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports, with the following exceptions: books, news- papers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music may be imported freely without a license against payment through the free market; if the importer applies for a license, exchange will be made available at the official rate but only when the items are for educational or scientific purposes. These imports are subject to pay- ment of the applicable taxes and charges regardless of their purpose. Medicines and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$500 f.o.b. or less, but all applicable charges and taxes must be paid on them. In addition, the State Petroleum Corporation may import supplies, materials, and equipment necessary for the conduct of its business du r ing emergency situations without obtaining a prior import license. A few goods may be imported only from LAFTA countries, and some only from Paraguay. With these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irre- spective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate import taxes (including import surcharges) have been paid, that the required prepayment of 80 per ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cent of import duties has been made, that an advance deposit has been paid, and that a certificate is submitted showing that insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The license automatically entitles the holder to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value of the import upon presentation of the shipping documents. The Central Bank may authorize advance import pay- ments with official exchange up to 100 per cent of the c. & f. value, provided the importer has paid the cor- responding amount in local currency and has deposited, as a guarantee, an additional 15 per cent of the value in sucres. The guarantee deposit is returned at the time of customs clearance. Import licenses which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate (permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods financed from the proceeds of certain international loans, provided that these have been regis- tered at the Central Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. Many imports are subject to advance deposit require- ments. The deposit, which must be maintained for 180 days, is 50 per cent for barley and automobiles and certain other vehicles, 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List II, and 10 per cent for goods on List I-B. There are various exemptions.2 All imports are subject to a tax of 5 per cent levied on commercial transactions. Furthermore, all goods are subject to a tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value, unless they represent gifts or foreign loans. Many goods in List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments in respect of certain current invisibles may be obtained from the Central Bank at the official rate. These transactions in invisibles are, in principle, limited to interest on foreign loans that have been registered at the Central Bank, dividends and profits on foreign investments registered at the Central Bank (provided the foreign exchange was sold at the Central Bank ), payments by the Government and public entities, and the necessary expenses of Ecuadorans studying at universities abroad, medical expenses, and advertising costs. Exchange for private sector interest payments can be obtained at the official rate for interest rates not exceeding 10 per cent; exchange for private sector payments of interest in excess of this l im it must be purchased in the free market. There is no ceiling for interest payments by the public sector. With respect to loans to petroleum companies, interest, commission, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 per cent above the rates of interest of the creditor country; moreover, annual amortization may not exceed the sum of undistributed profits, depre- ciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any variation in working capital. There are also limits on 2 The deposit is waived for goods on List I when imported on a barter basis against exports of bananas, creme de cacao, and sugar, and for goods on List I-B when imported by the public sector. ECUADOR student allowances, travel expenditures, and "other" invisibles eligible for the official rate, but amounts in excess of these limits may be purchased in the free market. Most other payments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and for- eign banknotes that travelers may take out. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of S/ 700 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 per cent, while tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 per cent for departure f rom Ecuador and 4 per cent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds AH exports require licenses to ensure the fu ll sur- render of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee. No sur- render is required for exports effected under licensed barter transactions. However, barter transactions require a prior contract. M in imum reference prices are estab- lished for exports of bananas, coffee, cacao, and semi- finished products of cacao to help ensure the fu ll sur- render of the exchange proceeds. Reference prices are also established for exports of crude petroleum; these serve as the basis for the calculation of taxes, royalties, etc. Certain commodities are subject to export taxes, payable at the time the export license is received, with the exception of the export tax on coffee which is pay- able at the time the export permit is liquidated. An export tax of 25 per cent ad valorem is levied on cocoa beans; exports of coffee beans are subject to a sliding- scale tax, which ranges f rom 26.5 per cent to 35 per cent. Sugar is exempted from the ad valorem export tax and receives a subsidy based on the f.o.b. value. The sub- sidy is received in the form of a tax credit certificate (certificado de abono tributario) on the basis of customs documentation. There are other export taxes in addi- tion to those mentioned above. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts from specified invisibles must be sold to the Central Bank at the official rate. All other receipts, inc lud ing those from travelers, may be sold in the free market. Travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may free ly enter or leave the country through the free market. Most borrowing abroad is subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). All foreign investments in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank. New investments require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, and Integration and /or the Foreign Investment Council. In the case of investments for which exchange 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR was sold to cover local costs, the investor must show that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank in order to be entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortiza- tion. For fore ign capital en ter ing in the fo rm of mach inery and equ ipmen t, the investor must show that the merchandise has been cleared through customs and that it took the fo rm of a "nonreimbursable" impor t. Add i t iona l ly, the investor must present to the Central Bank the certification f rom the appropriate m in i s t ry that the declared va lue conforms to the actual va lue of the mach inery and equ ipmen t. The Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank must subm it a recommenda- tion to the General Management of the Cen tral Bank w i th in 30 days f rom receipt of the request for registra- tion in the official market and all per t inent documenta- tion. Thereafter, tak ing into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and pr ior i t ies established in the coun try's development plans, the General Manage- ment of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registration for foreign exchange purposes w i th in an additional 30 days. In certain cases, where all docu- mentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in fore ign exchange granted to the Government or to official entities may be registered for foreign exchange purposes with the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank; for all fore ign loans, regis- tration is mandatory for statistical purposes. In the case of suppliers' credits, no special registration procedure is required. Foreign nationals are prohibited f rom own ing rural properties and f rom owning or opera t ing m i n i ng industries w i th in 30 miles of Ecuador's coastline or borders. The participation of fore ign capital as a direct investment in domestic wholesaling and re ta i l ing, in construction, and in real estate development is restricted. The M in is try of Industry, Commerce, and In teg ra t ion does not au thor ize direct foreign investment for estab- lishing pub l ic i ty firms, commercial broadcasting stations, television stations, newspapers, and magazines. Foreign exchange may be obtained at the off ic ial rate for the w i thd rawal of foreign investment from Ecuador five years a f ter the date of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Profits accumu- lated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Cen tral Bank for investments for which the registration procedure for foreign exchange purposes has been completed. For investments registered on a provisional basis, profits may not be repatriated through the off ic ial marke t. Profit remittances may not exceed the l im it (20 per cent a yea r) specified in the Foreign Investment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private ind iv idua ls are not granted official foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to 132 ma in ta in accounts with correspondent banks abroad in convertible currencies. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold on ly in the fo rm of filigree work, the gold content of which does not represent more than 25 per cent of its ma rket va lue. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; such imports are treated as List I imports, payable through the official market. Imports of nonmone ta ry gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank or by any other resident and are also treated as List I imports eligible for the official rate. Gold bars are exempt f rom import du ty, while the du ty on semi- worked gold is 40 per cent ad valorem; semiworked gold is treated as a List II import. Changes during 1979 January 17. Mone tary Board Regu la t ion No. 1021 modified Regulation No. 173 by inc lud ing public finan- cial development ins t i tu t ions in the list of in s t i tu t ions for which loan capital f rom fore ign governments and inter- na t ional agencies would be converted at the rate of S/ 25 per US$1. February 7. Monetary Board Regulation No. 1023 liberalized sales of fore ign exchange in the official exchange market to students already abroad or pro- ceeding abroad. February 7. Certain import items, inc lud ing hand tools and fixtures, were sh if ted f rom List I-B to List II (Mone ta ry Board Regulations Nos. 1024, 1026, 1027, and 1028). March 6. Imports of agr icu l tural production aids, such as machinery, tools, spare parts, and fertilizers, were f u l ly exempted f rom ta r i ff duties (Executive Decree No. 792 ). March 13. Tax credit certificates were abolished for exports of cocoa butter, powder, and liquor (Decree No. 3321 ). April 4. Importation of certain agr icu l tural imple- men ts required prior authorization from the M in is try of I n d u s t r y, Commerce, and In tegra t ion (Mone tary Board Regu la t ion No. 1033). April 25. Prior au thor iza t ion of the Ecuador Ins t i tu te of E lec tr if ica t ion was required for the importation of electric generators on List I-B (Monetary Board Regu- la t ion No. 1034). May 8. Imports of electricity generating equipment were exempted from payment of du ty du r ing 1979 (Decree No. 3427). May 23. Imports of fe r t i l izer classified under List I-A no longer required prior authorization from the Minis- try of Ag r icu l tu re and Livestock (Mone tary Board Regu la t ion No. 1036). June 20. Sales of foreign exchange in the official market for medical treatment abroad were liberalized (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1038). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 5. Imports of purebred pou l try under List I-B were subjected to pr ior au thor iza t ion f rom the M in is try of Ag r icu l tu re and Livestock (Mone ta ry Board Regula- t ion No. 1039). September 3. A legislative decree exempted imports of drugs and baby food f rom all duties, w i th effect f rom J anu a ry 24, 1980. Drugs not produced domestically would be imported and marketed by the M in is t ry of Health. September 27. Imports of d r i l l ing rods were made subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is t ry of Indus- try, Commerce, and Integration and those of preserved f r u it by the M in is t ry of Agr icu l ture and Livestock (Mone tary Board Regulations Nos. 1042 and 1043). September 27. Monetary Board Regulation No. 1044 exempted imports of goods on List I-B made by the public sector from the 10 per cent advance deposit requirement. October 15. Imports of lighting equipment under List I-B were made subject to prior au thor iza t ion of the M in is try of Industry, Commerce, and Integration (Mone tary Board Regulation No. 1045). ECUADOR October 24. Imports of iron, steel, and steel billets were sh if ted from Group B to Group A of List I (Mone ta ry Board Regulation No. 1050). November 12. Imports of oils and fa ts (List I-B) were subjected to prior approval of the Ministry of Indu s t ry, Commerce, and In tegra t ion (Mone ta ry Board Regu la t ion No. 1053). This regulation was annu l led by Regu la t ion No. 1059 of November 28. November 12. Imports of ou tf i ts for firemen were included in List II (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1054). November 28. Imports of containers for compressed or liquefied gases under List II were subjected to prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is try of Na tu ral Resources and Energy (Mone ta ry Board Regulation No. 1057). December 27. Monetary Board Regulation No. 1062 reduced f rom 120 days to 60 days the period for sur- render to the Central Bank of foreign exchange receipts f rom sales of petroleum and petroleum derivatives by private companies to third parties. The fine on delays in su r rende r ing foreign exchange was increased from 100 per cent to 150 per cent of the interest rate on term deposits p reva i l ing in New York. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at L EI = US$1.42857. The established buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Egypt for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1979 were LE 0.700 and LE 0.707, respectively, per US$1. Established rates for 14 other convertible currencies are based on cross rates quoted in New York.1 A special exchange rate, equiva- lent to LE 1 — US$2.55555, applies to transactions under bilateral payments agreements with countries that are not members of the International Monetary Fund and to liquidation accounts related to past bilateral pay- ments agreements. In addition, certain transactions take place at freely negotiated exchange rates. Forward cover is available for foreign trade transactions. Banks do not require prior exchange control approval for dealings or transactions in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Committee for Foreign Exchange, under the Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade, and Economic Cooperation, and is imple- mented under the supervision of the Under Secretary for Foreign Exchange Affairs. A foreign exchange budget is established annually. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general authorization, without the need to obtain specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade, and Economic Cooperation supervises imports and exports, but controlled imports are governed by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. Certain imports and exports are reserved for public sector companies. Port Said City is a free zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyptian pounds or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate Free Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, below), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the foreign exchange regula- tions manual. However, by a decision of the Central Bank, the proceeds from exports of raw cotton to con- vertible currency countries must be received in deutsche mark, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars (in addition, for exports to Austria, Belgium, France, Japan, and the United Kingdom, in the currencies of those countries). 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 134 Settlements with countries with which Egypt has bilateral payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.2 However, payments to such countries for "own exchange" imports and various other purposes may be made in convertible currency. Certain settlements with countries with which indem- nity agreements concerning compensation for national- ized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and may be paid by debiting Canal Dues Accounts, Advance Payment Canal Dues Accounts, Free Accounts in For- eign Currency, or Free Accounts in Egyptian Pounds. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in foreign cur- rency and balances are retransferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements or to the indemnity agree- ments concluded with certain countries, there are four main types of accounts: Free Accounts, Special Accounts, D Accounts, and Canal Dues Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened either in a foreign currency or Egyptian pounds; the latter are freely convertible. Free Accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currency or with the proceeds from the sale of such currency; with trans- fers from other Free Accounts; with proceeds from the sale of foreign banknotes which the holder has declared upon entry into Egypt; with interest on the accounts; and with the equivalent of any payment authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for pay- ments abroad in a convertible currency; for transfers to other Free Accounts and to Special Accounts; for pur- chases of foreign banknotes or other means of payment; for any payments in Egypt, including those for exports; and for bank charges and commissions. Special Accounts in foreign currency may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Gov- ernment, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of acceptable foreign banknotes; with transfers from Free Accounts or other Special Accounts; and with interest on the accounts. They may be debited for payments for imports; for either transfers abroad or purchases of for- eign banknotes or other means of payment to cover the 2 On December 31, 1979 Egypt maintained bilateral payments agree- ments with People's Republic of China, German Democratic Republic, North Korea, Mongolia, Sudan, and U.S.S.R. The credit facilities established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the Central Bank of Jordan have been suspended. There are also inoperative arrange- ments with the Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution expenses abroad of the account holder or his family (within a limit of LE 3,500 a year); for other authorized payments abroad; for local foreign currency payments; and for purchases of foreign banknotes or other means of payment for use in Egypt. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resi- dent of a country with which Egypt has a bilateral pay- ments agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned. These accounts may be credited with receipts under the respec- tive payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized from the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the coun- try of the account holder and for local payments (includ- ing those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the imple- menting regulations and within the scope of the relevant payments agreement. There are also Nonconvertible Capital Accounts, to which must be credited any payment of a capital nature to a foreigner living outside of Egypt that is not remit- table under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from the account holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for settlement of obligations due to the Egyptian authorities and for payments to residents for services rendered, and up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection with the activ- ities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are nonconvertible; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients of the proceeds from certain exports and nonfactor services, and may be credited with the proceeds of such transac- tions. They may be debited for payments in respect of trade and invisibles related to the account holder's economic activities or for surrender of the foreign cur- rency. With certain exceptions, any balances in such accounts on June 30 or December 31 of any year must be used within three months or surrendered. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are produced locally, although most types of commodities may be imported, provided the necessary foreign exchange is acquired outside the official market. All imports are financed at the established rates with the exception of imports under bilateral payments agree- ments with countries that are not members of the IMF, which are financed at a special rate equivalent to the former official rate, and imports that take place under the "own exchange" arrangements. EGYPT Most imports from payments agreement countries (except those made under the "own exchange" arrange- men ts), as well as imports of specified goods from any source, are reserved for the public sector. Private sec- tor importers of "own exchange" or "open license" imports must be Egyptians, born of Egyptian fathers. A Supreme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade is entrusted with establishing long-term policy for exports and imports, controlling the annual export and import plan, and supervising the execution of the for- eign exchange budget. The ministries concerned are responsible for setting priorities regarding imports and their timing. For purposes of administration, the econ- omy is divided into several sectors (agriculture, indus- try, transportation, etc.). The annual foreign exchange . budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be imported within that quota. Approval by a foreign trade committee constitutes the necessary author- ization for the implementation of import transactions. Private sector imports through the official market require approval by the Commercial Agency. Imports are regu- lated by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange at the established rate for the importation of certain commodities without restriction. Such "open license" imports do not require any prior approval and do not count against foreign exchange budget quotas. All commodities except those appearing on a special list may be imported, provided that no purchase of for- eign exchange in the official market is involved. In the case of certain specified items, a special Determination Committee must first approve the transaction. Certain imported goods may be sold for foreign currency to Egyptians and foreigners at special shops. An economic development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain essential foodstuffs imported by the Ministry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for payments for certain invisibles in accordance with gen- eral authorizations and instructions and up to specific quotas. Residents may purchase, through local banks and up to specified amounts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at established rates. Egyptian nationals are entitled to retain their earnings in foreign exchange (except those accruing from exports and tourism) in Free or Special Accounts and may use this foreign exchange freely for payments abroad. They may also acquire additional for- eign exchange through the medium of Free or Special Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Travelers may carry with them foreign banknotes 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT acquired through other channels that have not previously been declared up to LE 200 a trip or LE 2,000 a year. Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyp- tian banknotes. Egyptian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange which they have acquired legiti- ma te ly; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may reconvert their rema in ing Egyptian pounds a f ter deduction of LE 20 for each night spent in Egypt. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart f rom exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the na t ional economy that may be restricted, exports may be made free of license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade commit- tees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only. Export proceeds other than those from books, news- papers, and other publications must be repatriated w i th in three months f rom the date of shipment of the goods. Export proceeds may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Proceeds from exports to bilateral payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the rele- vant agreement. Some exports to specified countries may be settled through indemnity accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings abroad by persons other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accounts. Receipts from the provision of local hotel, transport, or travel agency services to tourists may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Many public sector and other entities are permitted to retain all or part of their receipts from invisibles in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts, and in many instances are exempt from the periodic surrender require- ments applied to these accounts. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in for- eign exchange; a customs declaration is required if the traveler wishes to re-export foreign currency or use it to open a Free Account. Foreign travelers must convert into Egyptian currency the equivalent of LE 100 to obtain an entry visa. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earn- ings in Free Accounts in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including t rans fer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers are restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer abroad funds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 136 a fam i ly, to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family, and to export other personal effects and fu rn i tu re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly. Authorized banks are empowered to import, export, and negotiate securities and to effect transfers related to the sale or purchase of either Egyptian or foreign securi- ties. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to intermediate in the transfer of ownership of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to undertake the local collection or payment in fore ign currency of the value of the securities. Trans- fers of accrued alimony are permitted in accordance w i th court orders. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irre- spective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a family's assets in Egypt to persons of foreign nationality who leave the country p e rm an en t ly a f ter a period of residence of at least five years. Any amount above this limit is credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Any payment of a capital n a tu re not remittable under the exchange control regu la t ions must be credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Law No. 43 of June 19, 1974 (amended by Law No. 32 of June 9, 1977) Concerning the Investment of A r ab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones defines the treatment of new foreign investments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are consid- ered on an individual basis. Gold Authorized banks are empowered to buy, sell, and keep abroad gold (including gold coin) and other pre- cious metals for the account of customers entitled to hold Free Accounts. Authorized banks may import such gold and other precious metals for local deposit and may subsequently re-export them. Certain persons other than the mone tary authorities, including authorized indus tr ial users, are allowed to import precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements. Exports of gold and silver fabrics are permitted, pro- vided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in con- vertible currency. Travelers are permitted to take out and bring in gold jewelry within specified limits. There is a free market for gold coin in Cairo. Changes during 1979 January 7. The following remaining groups of trans- actions were shifted from the official rate to the parallel ra te: exports of raw cotton, rice, petroleum and petro- leum products; imports of wheat, wheat flour, sugar, fertilizers, insecticides, and noncapital imports of the petroleum sector; and all remaining transactions in invisibles. The unification of the official and parallel exchange rates at the previously prevailing parallel rate was then complete although a special exchange rate con- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT t inued to apply to transactions under bilateral payments agreements with countries that were not members of the IMF, and to liquidation accounts related to past bilateral payments agreements. January 1. The bilateral payments arrangement with Czechoslovakia was terminated. Settlements with Greece were placed on a convertible currency basis. February 15. Ministerial Decree No. 1775 was pub- lished. New items were added to the open general license system bringing imports covered by the scheme to approximately 15 per cent of total imports. The pro- visions of the decree were given retroactive effect to December 31, 1978. May 6. Following the economic boycott of Egypt by countries implementing the decisions of the Baghdad conference in March, Egypt imposed restrictions on some current payments and transfers relating to certain loans and deposits by those countries. June 30. The bilateral payments arrangement with Mali was terminated. September 1. Customs duties on certain consumer durab le and intermediate goods imported under the "own exchange" system became effectively payable in foreign currency. The importer was required to convert foreign exchange in an amount equivalent to the cus- toms du ty payable on the goods; he would then receive a certificate f r om the commercial bank recording the transaction with a check made payable to the Customs and Excise Department. Approval by a Special Deter- m ina t ion Committee would no longer be required for "own exchange" imports, except for certain specified items. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at 02.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are C 2.49 buying and (22.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks with the public take place within these limits. Buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the daily quotations for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. A stamp tax of 0.1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange; on amounts below 0 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of 0.1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to any directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Depart- ment. Authority to approve certain payments, including most import payments not exceeding US$20,000 (US$2,000 for imports from other Central American Common Market (CACM)1 countries), is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports must be obtained from the Exchange Control Depart- ment. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Agriculture. Exports of coffee are super- vised by the Salvadoran Coffee Company and require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Payments to other member countries of CACM in respect of trade and specified invisibles must be settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Central American Clearing House. Payments to Mexico are also settled through the Clear- ing House. Otherwise, residents are free to make author- ized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with authorized banks provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. Banks may also freely open foreign currency accounts, for any period of time and in any amount, in the names of physical persons (whether of foreign or Salvadoran nationality) who reside abroad and, for a maximum 1 Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 138 period of six months, in the names of foreign persons staying in El Salvador for a period not exceeding six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy and are required for only a few items, including airplanes, firearms, ammunition, military equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Imports from all countries must be registered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed; orders for imports from countries outside Central America must be approved by the Exchange Control Department. For certain goods that are considered luxury com- modities (including airplanes, boats, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, perfumes, cosmetics, watches, jewelry, auto- mobiles, furniture, domestic appliances, rugs, photo- graphic equipment, and fu rs ), and representing about 4 per cent of the total value of imports, the Exchange Control Department cannot authorize importation, unless an advance deposit requirement, equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, is met in local currency. In addition, the c.i.f. value of the goods being imported must be paid at the time of import registration. Imports from countries outside the CACM that apply discriminatory restrictions against exports from El Sal- vador must be paid for before customs clearance, with the exception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for w i th in three years (medicines from Mexico may be paid for within 90 days; this applies also to imports of spare parts f rom Mexico by importers who are regarded as small enterprises). For commercial imports, the commercial banks are authorized to provide exchange for all import payments up to US$20,000 (US$2,000 for imports originating in CACM countries) for each order. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance, a prior deposit of 10 per cent, calculated on the value of the advance payment, is required from the importer as a guarantee, but those goods subject to the 100 per cent prior import deposit, goods valued at US$500 or less, and imports by industrial and agricultural firms may be exempted. Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the country, provided that payment has been made in fu ll to the exporter. In addition, all imports exceeding US$2,000 that are paid for by letters of credit or drafts (cobranzas) are subject to a 10 per cent prior deposit. The deposit may be made in cash at the Central Bank or any authorized bank. If the importer so desires, a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution bond issued by a financial institution in an amount equal to 10 per cent of his average monthly imports may be deposited instead of cash. Imports from other Central American countries, when covered by the Free Trade Agreement, are exempt from the exchange control regulations described above. Imports from Panama that are covered by the Free Trade Agreement of June 2, 1970 also are exempt. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, El Salvador grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Imports originating outside the CACM are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty; the surcharge is not applied to certain industrial equipment and raw materials that are free of duty under the Industrial Incentive Law. Many nones- sential goods are subject to a selective consumption tax, at rates of 5, 10, 20, 25, or 30 per cent. Goods of Central American origin are exempt. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange, without prior authorization from the Central Reserve Bank, for subscriptions to foreign literary soci- eties, correspondence courses, and memberships in pro- fessional clubs and organizations. They are also author- ized to sell foreign exchange for travel for tourism, or business, as indicated below. The basic exchange allocation which banks may make available for travel outside the Central American area (interpreted to mean the CACM countries) is US$800 a person a trip for both adults and children. This allo- cation also applies to travel within the Central American area if the person is traveling by air; if the person is traveling by land the basic exchange allocation that banks may make available is US$500 a person a trip for both adults and children. Additional amounts up to a maximum of US$2,000 may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department, provided that a guar- antee deposit in local currency corresponding to 20 per cent of the excess over the basic allocation is lodged with the Central Reserve Bank; the deposit is released upon the traveler's return provided he has spent at least 20 days abroad. In addition to the basic exchange allo- cation, foreign exchange is made available to cover medical and hospital expenses abroad up to US$3,000 if the patient buys the exchange in El Salvador and up to US$6,000 if the funds are directly remitted abroad. The US$6,000 limit also may be exceeded with the approval of the Central Reserve Bank, provided that proof of additional medical expenses is submitted. Local banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to US$600 a person a month for family remittances to Salvadoran nationals abroad and for study abroad. Local banks are also authorized to sell exchange for study purposes in addition to the above quota, upon pre- EL SALVADOR sentation of evidence of installation expenses, tuition costs, and other expenses. For Salvadoran nationals traveling to Central American countries, the commercial banks have authority to provide exchange up to the amounts mentioned above in Costa Rican colones, Hon- duran lempiras, Nicaraguan cordobas, or Guatemalan quetzales, or a cashier's check in Salvadoran colones ( for settlement through the Central American Clearing House). Requests for larger amounts must be submitted for approval to the Central Reserve Bank. International sea and air passages are subject to a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the ticket; official or diplomatic travel is exempt. Insurance and reinsurance premiums may be paid in foreign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered with the Exchange Control Department at the time it took effect. Alternatively, insurance com- panies may receive premiums in colones and periodically obtain from the Exchange Control Department authori- zation to purchase the foreign currencies they are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign currencies derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized com- mercial bank. Travelers may take out (2 200 in domestic notes and coin. This limit is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Nonresident travelers may upon departure reconvert 0 200 into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for some food- stuffs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the proceeds of all exports in excess of US$6,000 must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an author- ized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection term normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee and sugar are subject to export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in <Z 200 in domestic notes and coin. This limit is subject to modifi- cation, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transac- tions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments by private 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR ind iv idua ls in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and N icaragua. The en try of capital with a m a tu r i ty in excess of one year in the form of fo re ign inves tment must be registered w i th the M in is try of Economy. Registration ensures ( 1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial enterprises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable na tu ral resources, and enterprises in the field of tou r ism; (2) the remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital ( larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the M in is try of Economy); (3) repa- tr ia t ion of the proceeds from the total or partial liquida- tion of the enterprise (a f ter payment of taxes) in pro- portion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) payment of interest and amortization as determined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and (4 ), in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy is required. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department. The Exchange Control Department authorizes, with- out restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign cur- rency for the payment of interest and amortization on short-term loans from abroad; foreign loans with a ma tur i ty of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, while foreign loans with a ma tur i ty of more than one year must be authorized by the M in is try of Economy. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain m in i- mum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding interest. For purposes of this decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five CACM countries. Gold Gold coins in denominations of (2 25, C 50, (Z 100, and C 200 have been issued as legal tender, but do not c ircu la te. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for num isma t ic purposes. With this excep- t ion, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewlery require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their mem- bers and other users. Changes during 1979 September 17. The basic exchange allowance for travel expenses was reduced from US$2,000 to US$800 a person a trip. However, additional amounts up to a total of US$2,000 could be made available subject to the lodging of a guarantee deposit of 20 per cent of the add i t ional amount w i th the Central Reserve Bank. September 17. It was announced that a 10 per cent pr ior import deposit requirement would be levied on all impo r ts exceeding US$2,000 in value paid for by letter of credit or bank d r a ft (cobranza). The deposit would be re turned to the impor ter upon presentation of proof that the goods had entered the country. September 17. The power to authorize payments of foreign exchange to pay for direct imports not exceed- ing US$20,000 in value (US$2,000 for goods origi- n a t ing in CACM coun tr ies) was delegated by the Cen- t ral Reserve Bank to commercial banks. For larger amoun ts, fore ign exchange could be purchased only with the approval of the Central Reserve Bank. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the Equatorial Gu inean Ekuele, which is issued by the Bank of Equa- torial Gu inea (the central b a n k) and is defined as equiv- alent to 0.0126953 gram of fine gold. The ekuele re- placed the Equatorial Guinean peseta and was at par with the Spanish peseta, which was Equatorial Guinea's in terven t ion currency un t il Ju ly 12, 1977, when the Spanish peseta was devalued. Following the Spanish ex- change rate action Equatorial Guinea suspended ex- change operations with the exception of some small transactions that took place on the basis of a fixed rela- tionship between the ekuele and a currency basket. From April 9, 1979 to August 5, 1979 the ekuele was pegged to the SDR at the rate of EK 90 = SDR 1. From August 6, 1979, the ekuele is pegged at par to the Spanish peseta, i.e., EK 1 = Pta 1. There are no for- ward exchange facilities. There are no bank charges or commissions, but exchange taxes of 10, 17.5, 20, 25, and 35 per cent are levied on certain transfers abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, and exchange transactions must be carried out through that Bank. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of For- eign Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce; import licenses also require the approval of the Presidency. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain must be made through pay- ments agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, and payments to the People's Republic of China must be made through an account denominated in Swiss francs. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports require an import license. Licenses normally are issued within the framework of an annual import program. They do not entitle im- porters to the necessary foreign exchange un t il approved by the Presidency, after which, in principle, exchange is automatically made available upon the arrival of the goods in Equatorial Guinea; most import payments are effected under irrevocable letters of credit. Until August 1979, state enterprises had a monopoly on all imports; since then, some imports by private firms have been allowed. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles require the prior approval of the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Residents l 1 Residents are defined as persons remaining in Equatorial Guinea for more than six months in a calendar year or for more than six months in two consecutive calendar years. are, in principle, granted foreign exchange up to the equivalent of EK 10,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad. The standard allocation for busi- ness travel is the equivalent of EK 2,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of EK 50,000 a trip. For study abroad, foreign exchange is, in principle, granted to cover tuition costs. The allowance for living expenses is up to the equivalent of EK 5,000 a month. For travel abroad for health reasons, foreign exchange is made available only for expenses covered by original bills. In principle, the transfer of wages and salaries by alien residents, and of professional earnings as well as dividends by all residents, is freely permitted up to 60 per cent of taxable earnings when the transfer is made to Spain and up to 40 per cent for other countries, pro- vided that annual earnings do not exceed EK 50,000. Larger transfers are permitted when annual earnings ex- ceed EK 50,000. Transfers abroad of professional earn- ings by nonresidents are, in principle, freely permitted, but any amounts in excess of 60 per cent of taxable earnings are subject to a tax of 35 per cent on the amount transferred. In addition, nonresidents as well as Equatorial Guinean nationals residing abroad tempo- rarily are permitted, in principle, to withdraw up to EK 5,000 a month from their savings accounts for re- mittance abroad. In principle, enterprises classified as "of national interest" (see section on Capital, below) may transfer abroad freely up to 25 per cent per annum of the net investment income generated by their exporting activities. Any additional transfer is subject to a tax of 20 per cent. The transfer abroad of net investment income by enter- prises classified as "of preferential interest" is subject to a 20 per cent tax. Any other enterprise with foreign capi- tal participation may transfer net investment income, but such transfers are subject to a tax of 35 per cent on the amount transferred. In the event of at least 30 per cent of such net investment income being reinvested in Equa- tor ial Guinea, the incidence of tax is reduced to one third its normal level. Interest on foreign loans utilized for direct investment may be remitted semiannually, subject to a tax of 8 per cent. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, and royalties are, in principle, permitted freely, subject to a tax of 25 per cent of the amount remitted. Travelers may take out EK 3,000 a person in domes- tic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Both specific and general export licenses are granted; the latter are available only to registered exporters. Licenses are nor- mally valid for one year. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. The 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA Chamber of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry, a private, nonprofit, cooperative association, has jurisdic- tion over the marketing of most agricultural exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coin, but the import of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval. Capital receipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Under the Foreign Investment Law of November 17, 1979 three categories of foreign investment are recog- nized: ( 1) investments "of national interest" (ma in ly in industrial or forestry enterprises engaged in the export t rade ); (2) investments "of preferential interest" (mainly in enterprises engaged in import subs t i tu t ion ); and ( 3) nonqualified investments. Investments by na- tionals of or entities domiciled in Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. All foreign investments require the approval of the Presidency. If authorization is given by the Presidency, the Government or citizens of Equa- torial Guinea may own stocks of foreign enterprises es- tablished in Equatorial Guinea not exceeding 25 per cent of the capital. Foreign loans and capital utilized for fi- nancing direct investment may be repatriated annually up to the amortization of fixed assets, free of taxes. The transfer abroad of funds f rom the sale of fixed assets and financial assets by alien residents or by nonresidents is, in principle, permitted as follows: 50 per cent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immediately and the balance in 24 equal monthly installments. The sale of real estate, however, requires prior approval. Gold All purchases and sales of minted gold and gold bars are centralized in the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Commemorative gold coins in denominations of Equatorial Guinean pesetas 250, 500, 750, 1,000, and 5,000 are legal tender. Except for these coins and jewelry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1979 April 19. The ekuele was pegged to the SDR at the rate of EK 90 = SDR 1. August 6. The ekuele was pegged to the Spanish peseta at par, i.e., EK 1 = Pta 1. November 17. A new foreign investment law was published, liberalizing existing provisions, as follows: ( 1) the foreign share in Equatorial Guinean enterprises might exceed 50 per cent of the capital; (2) foreign loans and capital utilized for financing direct investment could be repatriated annually up to the amortization of fixed assets, free of taxes; (3) interest on foreign loans utilized for financing direct investment could be remitted semiannually subject to a tax of 8 per cent; (4) net in- vestment income might be remitted freely after payment of remittance taxes as specified in the tax law; and (5) the remittance tax on profits realized would be reduced to one third (former ly one h a l f) of its normal level if net investment income were reinvested in Equatorial Guinea. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 37, 7979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted, with daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central b ank) on the basis of the official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in London. The Na t ional Bank does not deal with the public; its dealings in U.S. dollars with the authorized banks take place at the official rate. In dealing with the public, authorized banks must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 per cent buying and 1.50 per cent selling; in add i t ion, they are authorized to levy service charges for the ir own account of 0.25 per cent buying and 0.75 per cent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margins charged them by correspondents abroad. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. The commissions levied on transactions with the public result in a spread of approximately 3 per cent between buying and selling rates for all currencies quoted. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks require the approval of the National Bank to under take forward exchange transactions. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks under the control of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a division of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require permits issued by that office. The Minister of Foreign Trade has statutory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars.1 The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in 1 There is an operational trade protocol with the German Demo- cratic Republic denominated in U.S. dollars. foreign currencies at authorized banks. Deposits to these accounts can only be made in foreign exchange. Bal- ances on nonresident foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts do not require prior approval. Members of the diplomatic commun i ty must use transferable birr accounts for payments of local expenses. No resident Ethiopian national may ma in ta in a bank account abroad. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained with authorized banks and are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising f rom disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, be low). Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia2 and South Africa are prohibited. Payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses, which are obtainable upon presenta- tion of a valid importer's license. Approval of applica- tions for exchange licenses is conditional upon the provision of satisfactory informa t ion on costs and pay- ment terms, and the submission of evidence that ade- quate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign exchange is not made available for imports of goods ( inc lud ing alcoholic beverages and other consumer goods) considered to be nonessential or readily substitutable by domestic prod- ucts. Exchange licenses are granted in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any con- vertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally accept- able. However, the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash against documents basis. Goods wh ich were previously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and vir- tua l ly no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credit is prohibited except for goods such as raw and intermediate materials, pharmaceuticals, and machinery and transport equipment, in which case prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit is required. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 per cent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sec- t o r ); they may remit a maximum ranging between 40 per cent and 50 per cent of total net earnings during 2 Sanctions against Rhodesia were lifted f rom March 13, 1980. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same max imum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 per cent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons trave l ing abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Br 125 a day for a max imum period of 30 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes; for tou r i sm, persons 18 years of age or over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 for study abroad and Ethiopian nationals having dependents pu rsu ing higher studies in accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before Ap r il 1962. Subject to certain limits and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain for- eign exchange for medical treatment and travel abroad. Af ter providing for payment of local taxes, fore ign com- panies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travel- ers may take w i th them a m ax imum of Br 50 in Ethio- pian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia (see footnote 2) and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti also are prohibited. Exports of horsebeans are suspended. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require in addition the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, exporters must obtain f u ll insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The gran t ing of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the Na t ional Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 50 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be declared by trav- elers on en try, and its re-export is subject to authoriza- tion, except for temporary visitors. Reconversion of b i rr must be supported by documen tary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, to preclude an unwarranted accumu- lation of external debt, and to keep the authorities informed of the country's external debt position. 144 All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of receipt, which is required for repatriation. Foreign capital may participate w i th the Government in speci- fied areas, such as large-scale construction, tourism, and the exploration for and production of hydrocarbons and most other minerals. All recognized and registered fo re ign inves tmen ts may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and payment of all taxes and o ther l iab i l i t ie s. Subject to appropriate docu- m en t a t ion, foreign businessmen having nonregistered inves tmen ts may transfer their capital abroad on liqui- da t ion and final depa r tu re f rom Ethiopia, but may not t r an s f er more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; kinds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account w i th an authorized bank. Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency w i thout Na t ional Bank permission. Also, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to over- draw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or p la t inum forms a part is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the Minister of Mines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or of gold or p la t inum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, consti- tutes an offense. Newly mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the Na t ional Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes during 1979 April 25. A directive of the Ministry of Foreign A f f a i rs instructed members of diplomatic missions and international organizations in Addis Ababa to effect payments for all their local expenses in foreign exchange af ter May 15, 1979. Members of the diplomatic com- mun i ty were to open foreign currency accounts for payments to other nonresident accounts or abroad and a transferab le birr account for payments of local expenses. These two accounts could be credited only with foreign exchange. May 1. The facility whereby residents could accumu- late the foreign exchange entitlement for tourism of Br 600 a year for two years was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of F i ji is the F i ji Dollar, the v a lue of wh ich is determined on the basis of the fixed relation- sh ip between the Fiji do l lar and a weighted basket of currencies of Fiji's most important trad ing partners. The exchange rate of the F i ji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1979 buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were F$0.8349 and F$0.8470, respectively, per US$1. The Central Monetary Au tho r i ty of F i ji provides official quotations only for the U.S. do l lar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. On August 4, 1972, F i ji formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is te red by the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, ac t ing as agent of the Govern- ment. The Central Monetary Au tho r i ty delegates to authorized dealers the au thor i ty to approve normal import payments. Except w i th the specific permission of the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they receive.1 The M in is t ry of Commerce, Industry, and Cooperatives is responsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, which are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements w i th residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. Pay- ments for exports to any destination outside Fiji may be made in Fiji currency f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonres iden t2 may ma in ta in an External Account in Fiji currency or a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Central Monetary Au- thority. These accounts may be credited freely w i th interest payable on the account, with payments f rom other External Accounts, with the proceeds of sale of 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, fore ign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. 3 A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a coun try outside Fiji. As regards indi- viduals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intern's to continue living in Fiji for at least three years. fo re ign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and w i th F i ji cu r rency notes which the account holder b rought into F i ji or acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the coun try d u r i ng a temporary v is i t. Ex te rnal Accounts also may be credited w i th payments by residents for which either a general or a specific au tho r i ty has been given. Ex ternal Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of F i j i, transfers to other External Accounts, paymen ts in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts of most goods are under open general license, a l though impor ts of a number of goods, includ- ing ce r ta in foods tuffs, cement, seed potatoes, PVC pipes, polypropylene ropes, deodorants, and cars and vehicles, are subject to ind iv idual import licensing; licenses for some of these items are issued restrictively. Impo rt proh ib i t ions are imposed on a few commodities f r om all sources, m a in ly for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized impor ts are permitted upon app l ica t ion and submission of documentary evidence to au thor ized dealers who may allow payments for goods which have been imported under either a spe- cific impo rt license or an open general license. Author- ized banks may allow advance payments for all imports provided the goods are imported into F i ji within 90 days of the date the payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in any country are permitted either under a delegated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated pay- men ts are involved, upon application to the Central Monetary Au thor i ty. Payments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Residents of F i ji t r av e l ing to other countries may obtain from a bank, without reference to the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, a foreign currency travel allowance for pri- vate or business travel up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a journey. For an extended visit, a traveler may apply before his departure to the Central Mone- tary Authority for funds in excess of F$2,000 a person; applications may also be made from abroad through the traveler's bank. There is no restriction on the num- ber of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take with him F$50 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$200 in other currencies, provided that these amounts are not in addition to travel allow- ances approved by a bank and /or the Central Mone- tary Authority. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of any export licensing requirements, how- ever, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$ 1,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exportation of the goods f rom Fiji, irrespec- tive of the currency in which the payment is being made, and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer w i th in one mon th of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Resident travelers are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer w i th in one month of return. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. For- eign investment in Fiji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital transfers by residents to finance direct invest- ments require the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority and are permitted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji w i t h i n .a reasonably short period. All authorized banks operating in Fiji are required to obtain prior authorization from the Central Mone- tary Authority for transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign cur- rency into Fiji currency whether for credit to a resident account or an External Account and (2) the crediting of an External Account with Fiji currency emanating from another External Account (including Fiji cur- rency accounts of overseas banks ). Banks also require the approval of the Central Monetary Authority before granting any loans to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) which is controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals designated as nonresidents; however, banks do not require such approval to lend up to F$5,000—for any period and any purpose—to indi- 146 v idual nonresident customers. Banks may not lend for- eign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, and residents require permission from the Central Monetary Authority before they may borrow foreign currency within Fiji or outside. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a non- resident. Residents of Fiji are allowed to make cash gifts to nonresidents equivalent to F$500 a donor a year; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out their entire net assets on departure. With the prior approval of the Central Monetary Authority, residents are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to a maximum of F$5,000 a person a year to acquire foreign currency securities. The purchase of personal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Central Monetary Authority; the pro- ceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be repatriated. Banks require exchange control per- mission to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold coin but not gold bullion in Fiji. The export of gold coin, except numis- matic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Gold imports from all sources require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coin is free of customs duty and fiscal tax, while gold bullion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 per cent. Gold jewelry is subject to a fiscal duty of 10 per cent but does not require any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry do not require licenses and are free of export duty. All newly mined gold is sold in Australia at free market prices. A commemorative gold coin of F$100 has been issued. It is legal tender but does not normally circulate. Changes during 1979 April 1. Imports of weighing and measuring instru- ments, graduated in imperial units or in both imperial and metric units, were prohibited. May 25. Export licensing was introduced for certain endangered species of animals. December 28. Sanctions against Rhodesia were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka. The external value of the markka is defined as a currency index number (1974 = 100) reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the currencies most im- portant for Finland's foreign trade. These currencies are defined as the currencies of those countries which have accounted for not less than 1 per cent of the total of Finland's commodity imports and exports in each of the last three calendar years. At the end of 1979 the upper fluctuation limit was 121.0 and the lower limit was 114.0. The Bank of Finland publishes the monthly average for the index af ter the end of each month. The fluctuation limits are set at 3 per cent on each side of the theoretical arithmetic mean. The average value of the currency index was 115.4 in December 1979. The buying and selling rates of the Bank of Finland for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1979 were Fmk 3.702 and Fmk 3.720, respectively, per US$1. The rates for the U.S. dollar are applicable also to clearing dollars. Buying and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. do l lar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on market cross rates. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. The Bank of Finland quotes daily forward rates for the U.S. dollar and the clearing ruble at which au- thorized banks may cover the ir contracts with resident customers relating to any type of transaction permitted by the exchange control regulations; otherwise, forward premiums and discounts reflect in te rna t ional forward quotations. Authorized batiks may deal among them- selves, with resident customers, and w i th nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible or externally convertible currencies. The Bank of Finland concludes forward transactions for periods rang ing from 3 to 12 months. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized exchange dealers (ma in ly commercial banks). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Imports and Exports Office, which is headed by a Board composed of govern- ment officials, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries1 and 1At the end of 1979 Finland had bilateral payments agreements the convertible currency countries (all others). Settle- ments with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement ( the clearing ruble for the U.S.S.R., the clearing F inn ish ma rkka for the People's Republic of China, and the clearing U.S. dollar in all other cases).2 Settlements with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts, Restricted Accounts, and Capital Accounts. Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in Finnish ma rkkaa or in convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank w i th amoun ts transferred from other Convertible Accounts, with Finnish currency received direct from a foreign bank or imported in to F in land, w i th amoun ts which the bank would be authorized to t rans fer abroad, w i th amoun ts of convertible currency received by the bank, and with interest accrued on f u n ds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred abroad to any country. Restricted Accounts are held by residents of countries w i th which Finland has bilateral paymen ts arrangements, and are designated accord ing to the holder's coun try of residence. They may be held in Finnish markkaa or the appropriate bilateral agreement currency. They may be credited by an au thor ized bank with amounts trans- ferred f rom Convertible Accounts and f rom Restricted Accounts related to the same country. The accounts may also be credited with Finnish currency received f rom a bank in the country indicated on the account, with amoun ts which the bank is authorized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the coun t ry indicated on the account, with currency sur- rendered to the bank and restricted to the country indi- cated on the account, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited free ly and balances may be transferred to the bilateral coun try concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They are held in markkaa and are intended pr imar i ly for payments of a capital na ture. The assign- ment of a Capital Account to another nonresident and the t ran s fer abroad of funds held in such an account may be effected (w i th some minor exceptions) only with the permission of the Bank of F in land. A mone- tary institution may credit a Capital Account with the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities with Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 2 In the cases of Czechoslovakia and of Poland, since 1970 pay- ments have, in practice, been effected in convertible U.S. dollars. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND bought from the holder by a resident, with f u n ds received as an inhe r i tance, and w i th redemp t ion pay- men ts and interest on ma tu red bonds and deben tu res quoted on the He l s inki Stock Exchange. These accounts may also be credited w i th rent on p rope r ty owned in F in land by the holder of the account, proceeds f rom o ther assets be long ing to the ho lder of the account and managed by the mone ta ry in s t i tu t ion w i th which the account is held, the amount of a loan based on a con- tract g ran t ing to a nonresident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in va lue to be u t i l ized in F in l and, and in te rest accrued on f u n ds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited f ree ly for noncom- mercial cu r rent expenses in F in land of and for account of the holder, and f u n ds in Capital Accoun ts may be used for capital paymen ts when the t ran sac t ion does not require au thor iza t ion or is au thor ized for t r an s- ferab le f u n d s. The Bank of F i n l a nd g en e r a l ly g ran ts permission for t r an s f er abroad of f u n ds deposited in Capital Accoun ts to an account holder who has resided abroad d u r i ng the last c a l e n d ar year and who con t inu es to do so. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited .:i Most goods may be imported free of license f rom the m u l t i- la teral countries, provided that the goods are purchased f rom and or ig ina te in those countries. Cer ta in goods4 may be impo r ted f r om the m u l t i l a t e r al area und er a global quota system, wh ich provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of 11 v a lue quotas for specified commodity groups. The to tal v a l ue of the global quota impor ts for 1979 was 0.8 per cent of total 1979 impor ts. Cer ta in other goods r e q u i r i ng i n d i v i d u al licenses when impor ted f rom the m u l t i l a t e r al area are set out in the d i sc re t iona ry l icens ing l is t. The only commodities still subject to q u a n t i t a t i ve restriction for the mu l t i la te ral area are ce r ta in a g r i c u l t u r al com- modities and fue ls and pe tro leum produc ts; the specified consumer durable goods which are subject to su rve i l lance licensing are licensed freely. M i n im um impo rt prices are imposed on some consumer goods. Import licenses are not requ i red for most commod i t ies o r i g i n a t i ng in and purchased f rom the U.S.S.R., or orig- in a t ing in and purchased f r om the f ive coun t r ies w i th which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hung a ry, and Po- l a n d ). A ll imports of commodities o r i g i n a t i ng in coun- tr ies not classified in either the m u l t i l a t e r al area or the b i la teral a rea5 require i n d i v i d u al licenses. The State G r an a ry is the ma in agency for the impo rt of whea t, rye, barley, oats, and products of these g r a ins for h um an consump t ion, but i n d i v i d u al impo r te rs may also import 3 Sanctions against Rhodesia were l if ted on J anu a ry 11, 1980. 4 Agricultural commodities, petroleum products, and unw rougf t gold and silver. •" In c lud ing No r th Korea and Mongo l ia. 148 these commod i t ies und er license. There is a state monopo ly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is gran ted by authorized banks for all per- m i t ted impo r ts on p resen ta t ion of an app l ica t ion fo rm, the impo rt l icense if requ ired, and the o r ig inal commer- c ial invoice, provided that the goods are a lready in the c o u n t ry or the re is s u f f i c i e nt ev idence to gua ran tee their impo r ta t ion. Payment for imports must be made w i th in 12 mon ths a f ter the date of customs clearance of the goods; if the period of suppliers' credit exceeds 6 mon th s, the credit is subject to an "overtime fee," unless spec ia l ly au tho r ized by the Bank of F in land; if the pay- m e nt is made to the seller th rough an impo rt financing cred i t, the credit period may not exceed 3 months. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts in respect of au thor ized inv is ib les are not res tr ic ted. The au thor ized b anks have general permis- sion to effect paymen ts for most c u r r e nt invisibles, w i th a few excep t ions re la t ing to insurance, subject in some cases to a m a x im um a l lowance or other cond i t ions; for am o u n ts in excess of the s tanda rd allowances and for purposes for which no s t and a rd a l lowances have been set, exchange licenses are gran ted f ree ly by the Bank of F i n l a n d. A ll contracts invo lv ing paymen ts to nonresi- den ts for wh ich gene ral pe rm iss ion has not been granted mu st be subm i t ted to the Bank of F in land for approval. For m i n or paymen t s, au tho r ized banks may provide f o r e i gn exchange e q u i v a l e nt to Fmk 1,000 a c a l end ar m o n th for each rem i t te r. A F i n n i sh res ident t r a v e l i ng abroad may purchase f r om comme rc ial banks fore ign exchange equivalent to Fmk 5,000 a t r i p. Once abroad a t rave ler may with- d r aw fo r e ign exchange on a bank account passbook or check issued by a F inn i sh mone ta ry i n s t i t u t i o n, provided t h at the u t i l i z ed am o u nt of h is t ravel allocation does not exceed a to tal of Fmk 5,000. A res ident t rave ler may use a cred it card abroad for travel services and settle the t ran sac t ion a f t er h is r e t u r n. Nonres ident travelers may t a ke out Fmk 5,000 a t r ip in F inn ish notes and coin and any am o u nt in fore ign notes and coin declared upon en t ry; resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic cu r rency, or any comb ina t ion of these, up to Fmk 5,000, but in ne i ther case may notes of a denom- i n a t i on h igh er th an Fmk 100 be exported. For all types of t r a v e l, bona f ide app l ica t ions for add i t ional amoun ts of fo r e ign exchange are approved by the Bank of F i n l a n d. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodes ia are p roh ib i ted (see foo t- note 3 ). Export licenses are required on ly for exports of scrap me ta l. Exports of some commodities in the agri- c u l t u r al sector and raw t imber, as well as exports to countries not in the convertible area, require an export control dec la ra t ion, which is approved au toma t ica l ly by the Impor ts and Exports Office, except in a few specified cases. Sales of a rms are s tr ic t ly controlled. Exports to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution countries that are not in the convertible area and that are outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade are allocated by means of bilateral trade arrangements. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports need not be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or to an authorized exchange dealer. Exporters are required to repatriate foreign exchange proceeds within eight days of collection, which may then be held in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank in Finland or be converted into domestic currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered but must be repatriated w i th in eight days of collection. The funds may be held in a foreign currency account in Finland. Any unutilized foreign banknotes and travelers checks must be repatriated, but these are exempt from the surrender requirement up to Fmk 5,000 for each resident holder. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted except that the import of notes with a nominal value above Fmk 100 is prohibited. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheritances are transferred automatically to the beneficiaries. Per- sons who have resided outside Finland dur ing the last calendar year and continue to do so may t ran s fer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Finland, which generally is granted. Nonresidents may purchase bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through an authorized bank, against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Account. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. The acquisition of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange with funds from Capital Accounts is also permitted automatically if they are acquired by an authorized bank, but proceeds from the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in securities, and the export of secu- rities that involve nonresident interests, require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkaa from a Convertible Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. Inward direct investments must be approved by the Bank of Finland. The Bank usually grants permission, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of authorized direct investments is subject to the approval of the Bank of FINLAND F in land, which is freely given. Foreign investments that invo lve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the share capital of an enterprise require the approval of the Council of State. This approval is usually gran ted. Direct foreign investment in the forest and m in ing industries and in certain t rad i t iona l ly regulated activities is not no rma l ly permitted. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare the ir foreign assets, inc lud ing property owned abroad. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities and real property must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Authorized banks are given permission to purchase specified foreign and Finnish securities issued abroad. Outward transfers of capital, including transfers for direct investment by residents, require individual approval. Since September 1, 1979 purchases of real estate abroad have been authorized up to a limit of Fmk 150,000 subject to the approval of the Bank of F in land, which is granted liberally. Finnish emigrants are generally permitted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 150,000 a person, in add i t ion to the basic tourist travel allowance. There is an auto- matic exchange allowance of up to Fmk 2,000 a calendar month for each donor for g i f ts and contributions to nonresidents. Foreign currency borrowing by F inn ish residents, in the fo rm of short-term or medium-term financial credits or by bond issues abroad, requires the specific approval of the Bank of Finland, which exercises surveillance over the terms and t im ing. Lending to nonresidents is no rma l ly restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Medium-term and long-term borrowing abroad, other th an borrowing by the State or import credits, is subject to a selective deposit requ i remen t, the terms of which are set by the Bank of F in land. Gold Residents may f ree ly hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in F in land. Imports of gold in any fo rm other th an jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and indu s t r ial users. The global quota list con ta ins a quota for indu s t r ial gold, for which licenses are gran ted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regula- tions as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Office is usua l ly sufficient. Changes during 1979 January 24. An agreement was signed w i th Malaysia for the vo lun tary restraint by Malaysia of exports of men's and boys' shirts to F in land du r ing March 1, 1979-December 31, 1981. March 1. The cash payment scheme for imports was abolished. March 1. The max imum amount of foreign exchange that residents were permitted to take out of the coun try 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND without the approval of the Bank of Finland was raised f rom the equivalent of Fmk 3,000 to Fmk 5,000 a person a trip. The export and import of notes with a nominal value of more than Fmk 100 was prohibited. April 26. Finland informed the CONTRACTING PARTIES of the GATT that it had ceased to invoke the provisions of Article XII of the General Agreements as jus t if ica t ion for the application of quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports. September 1. Residents were permitted to buy real estate abroad up to a l im it of Fmk 150,000. Such pur- chases would be subject to approval by the Bank of Finland, which would be granted liberally. September 21. The external value of the markka was appreciated by 2 per cent against a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The fluctuation limits of the cur- rency index were fixed at 121.0 and 114.0, implying a widening of the fluctuation margin from 4.5 to 6 per cent. September 25. Finland and the U.S.S.R. signed a f r a m e w o rk a g r e em e nt f or b i l a t e r al t r a de d u r i ng 1981-85, allowing for an increase in trade of 40 per cent over the level set in the previous framework agreement. Almost 80 per cent of Finnish imports under the agree- ment would be represented by energy products; exports of crude oil by the U.S.S.R. to Finland would be increased to 7-7.5 million tons during 1981-82 and to 7.5-8 million tons a year dur ing 1983-85. The bilateral trade agreement for 1980 envisaged crude oil deliveries of 7 million tons. September 25. Finland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. December 4. Finland and the U.S.S.R. signed the bilateral trade protocol for 1980, envisaging a 20 per cent increase in trade over 1979. December 31. The valuation of gold was changed to Fmk 35 per gram of fine gold (approximately US$290 per troy ounce). 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of France is the Franc. France pa r t ic i- pates w i th Be lg ium, Denma rk, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Nether- lands in the exchange rate and in te rven t ion mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accord- ance w i th th is agreement, France m a i n t a i ns the spot exchange rates between the f r anc and the currenc ies of the other par t ic ipan ts w i th in marg ins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the I ta l ian lira, 6 per cen t) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates ex- pressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs ). The agreement imp l ies th at the Bank of France ( the central b ank) stands ready to buy or sell the cur- rencies of the other pa r t ic ipa t ing states in un l im i ted amoun ts at specified in t e rv en t ion rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 these rates were Specified Intervention Rates Per: Francs Upper l im it Lower l im it 100 Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire 15.0290 77.429 240.93 217.96 894.95 0.5362 14.3680 74.022 230.34 208.38 855.55 0.4756 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed l im i ts. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention curren- cies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Buy ing and selling rates for 18 foreign currencies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.1 On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were F 4.0145 and F 4.0255, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the f ranc apply to the currencies of the overseas territories, to the New Hebrides franc, and to the currencies of the countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Op- erations Account,2 as follows: (1) In the overseas ter- ritories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, the currency used is the CFP f ranc, 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, D j ibou ti francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zai'res. 2 Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cong >, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. which has a fixed par i ty with the f ranc of CFPF 1 = F 0.055. (2) In the Condom in ium of the New Hebrides, for wh ich France has assumed the obligations of the A r t ic les of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund p u r s u a nt to A r t ic le XXXI, Section 2(g), the cur- rencies used are the New Hebrides f ranc, which has a fixed p a r i ty w i th the f r a nc of NHF 1 = F 0.061875, and the A u s t r a l i an do l la r. The official exchange rate of the New Hebrides f r a nc in terms of the Aus t ra l ian dol- lar is ad jus ted f rom t ime to t ime to take account of changes in the exchange re la t ionsh ip between the French f r a nc and the A u s t r a l i an dollar. On December 31, 1979 the rate was NHF 1 = $ A 0.014. ( 3) Fixed conversion rates in terms of the f r a nc app ly to the currencies of the Ope ra t ions Account coun tr ies .2 These rates are CFAF 1 = F 0.02 for the CFA f r a n c, which circulates in B en in, Came roon, the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta, and MF 1 = F0.01 for the Mali franc. Au tho r ized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Opera t ions Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or fo rwa rd in the exchange market in France. Au- tho r ized banks may also deal spot and forward with t h e ir correspondents in foreign markets in all curren- cies. Nonb ank residents may purchase forward exchange only in respect of imports and of certain trade transac- tions, but the ir forward sales of foreign currency are free, whether or not there is an unde r ly ing transaction. For imports of some commodities, fo rwa rd cover is ava i lab le for 6 or 12 mon ths, and for all others for 2 months. France f o rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Ar t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom Feb rua ry 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regu la t ions are applicable in all terr i tor ies of the French Republic, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guade- loupe, Ma r t in ique, G u i a n a, Reun ion, and St. Pierre and M i q u e l o n ), Mayotte, and the three Overseas Territories (W a l l is and F u t u na Islands, New Caledonia, and French Po lyne s ia ). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account countries; 2 pay- ments between France and these countries are free of res tr ic t ion on the pa rt of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All o ther countries are considered for- eign coun t r ies for exchange control purposes; all pay- men ts between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange con tro l. The Condom in ium of the New Hebrides is considered a fo re ign country for exchange 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE control purposes. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered for- eign countries. Certain controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are maintained over inward and out- ward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these transaction controls are not applicable to the Op- erations Account countries or Monaco, and those over direct investment do not apply to member countries of the EC. Privileged treatment in respect of trade transac- tions is accorded to the Operations Account countries and to Algeria, Guinea, Democratic Kampuchea, Mad- agascar, Mauritania, Morocco, Tunisia, and the Con- dom in ium of the New Hebrides. Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the M in is try of Economy is the coordinating agency in the field of fi- nancial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad, unless they relate to real estate companies, when the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, to- gether with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Di- rectorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy has certain powers in respect of matters relat- ing to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The mate- rial execution of all transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export pro- cedures and controls, within the framework of com- mercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE); the Directorate- General also issues import and export licenses, and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain responsi- bilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account countries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury.3 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident Foreign Ac- counts in Francs. Settlements with Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, however, usually take place in francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be freely opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All overdrafts and advances on nonresident-held franc accounts are subject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with ( 1) the f ranc proceeds of the spot or forward sale of foreign currencies on the exchange market by a non- resident; (2) the f ranc proceeds of the sale of foreign banknotes to an authorized bank by a nonresident bank or traveler; (3) the f ranc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign marke t; (4) French banknotes (and those of the Op- erations Account countries) mailed direct from abroad to the ma in office of the Bank of France by an author- ized bank's foreign correspondents; (5) transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) any authorized payment by a resident to a nonresident, including interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the sales proceeds, income, and amortization from French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, i n c l u d i ng securities held by authorized banks and accru- ing in France to a nonresident by donation or inheritance up to F 500,000; (8) liquidation proceeds of nonresident- held direct investments;4 and (9) the proceeds of the sale, through the intermediation of a notary public, of real estate be long ing to nonresidents. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a non- resident of foreign banknotes or withdrawals in French banknotes; (3) the equivalent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French banknotes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their foreign correspondents; (5) transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct investment in France by nonresidents;4 (7) purchases of real estate f rom residents, through the intermediation of a notary public; (8) purchases in France of listed French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of loans granted in accordance with the relevant regulations by residents; and (10) any payment by a nonresident to a resident. ;! Comprising the institutes of issue of the Operations Account coun- tries and the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Fu tuna Is lands). 4 Subject to compliance with the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of Feb- r u a ry 22, 1971 and Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972. 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution If francs accruing to a nonresident are not transfera- ble, or are not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the beneficiary; balances up to F 50,000 that existed on August 9, 1973 have been released. The unrem i t- table funds of emigrants of French na t iona l i ty must be retained in resident accounts (comptes interieurs) until they become nonresidents (i.e., un t il they have stayed in a foreign country for two yea rs ); emigrants of for- eign na t iona l i ty become nonresidents immediately and, therefore, may take out all of their assets upon departure. Imports and Import Payments Goods or ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom other coun- tries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quan- titative restrictions and ind iv idual licenses. Imports of goods which originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require ind i- vidual licenses. Some imports from EC countries and some other imports from non-EC countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an adm in is t ra t ive visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Cer- tain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into four groups according to the extent of import lib- eralization: (1) the former OEEC countries, their de- pendent territories and certain former dependent ter- ritories, Andorra, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, the United States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) some specified countries;5 (3) the Eastern European countries (A lban ia, Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R.), the People's Republic of China, North Korea, and Mongolia; and (4) the German Democratic Republic. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be im- ported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of sh ipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products f rom countries in group (1) are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agri- cultural products; there is relatively l i t t le d i f fe rence between the lists of goods which may be imported freely from d ifferent countries in this group, these d i f- ferences relating ma in ly to Hong Kong. Imports of cer- tain indus tr ial products f rom countries in group (2) •" •Afghanistan, A rgen t ina, Aus t ra l ia, Bhu t an, Bolivia, Brazil, B u rm a, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Ha i t i, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South A f r i c a, Sri Lanka, Thailand, U r u g u a y, Venezuela, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. FRANCE are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain add i t ional indus tr ial products from group ( 3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quo tas that are allocated annu a l ly (petroleum and pe- tro leum produc ts) or sem iannua l ly and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally nego- tiated quotas or receive privileged t r e a tm en t ). Imports f rom all countries of cer ta in agr icu l tural items and cer ta in raw materials are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions. Imports f rom non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all prev ious barriers to imports; common EC regula- t ions are also applied to imports f rom non-EC coun- tries of most other agr icu l tural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade controls, but do requ i re a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration. However, as an exchange control measure, the dom ic i l ia t ion ( reg is t ra t ion) of the import transac t ion at an authorized bank may be prescribed. For some liberalized imports, an adm in is t ra t ive visa issued by the Central Customs Adm in is t ra t ion or by the appropriate m in i s t ry is required on an import decla- ration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty requ ire such adm in is tra t ive visas when o r ig ina t ing in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require ind iv idual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an i n d i v i d u al commodity basis or for a group of com- modities and are applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance w i th trade agreements or an im- port p lan d rawn up for a def in i te period. Payments for imports f rom foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or w i th fore ign currency purchased in the French ex- change marke t. Import transactions re la t ing to foreign coun t r ies and valued at F 50,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, to which the neces- sary impo rt documents must be presented and through wh ich all paymen ts related to the import must be made. The amoun ts that may be t rans fe r red through postal channels are not subject to l im i ta t ion, but in practice the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion does not make import pay- ments valued at over F 50,000, as it does not under take dom ic i l ia t ion. Au thor ized b anks may w i thout special authorization a l low advance paymen ts to be made that are provided for in the comme rc ial con trac t, up to 30 per cent of the pr ice for capital goods and up to 10 per cent for all other goods. H igher advance payments require prior approval by the Customs Adm in i s t ra t ion. For all im- ports, impor ters may purchase spot fo re ign currency e ight wo rk ing days before u t i l i z a t i o n; u t i l iza t ion cannot take place before the payment f a l ls due. There is no res tr ic t ion on the use of suppliers' credit. Two months' fo rwa rd cover for impo rt payments can be obtained for any commod i ty; for the import of specified raw 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE materials and specified foodstuffs (unroasted coffee, corn, rice, etc.) forward cover for six months or one year is available. The foreign currency may be pur- chased forward at the time of domiciliation, but the ma tu r i ty of the forward exchange contract must not be later than the date on which the commercial payment is due. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but are not restricted as to amount. If justifying documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are per- mitted to approve applications for payments for many categories of current invisibles without any limitation; for certain other categories of current invisibles, estab- lished limits have been set. Applications for all other payments for invisibles and for amounts in excess of established limits are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; such applica- tions are approved if a genuine current payment is in- volved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remittances abroad' up to the equivalent of F 1,500 a person, provided that the transfers do not constitute installments of payments exceeding F 1,500, are not for purposes subject to special allocation, and do not serve as a means of accumulating funds abroad. Payments that may be authorized w i thout limitation by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; banking commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance with court decisions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners em- ployed in France, provided that the transfer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, cer- tain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account coun- tries) is the equivalent of F 5,000 a person a trip, which may be taken up for any number of tr ips a year. The basic allocation for business travel is the same plus the equivalent of F 500 a person a day. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Any unu t i l ized for- eign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 1,000 must be surrendered within one month upon return to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be sub- mitted earlier than one month before departure. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is u n r e- stricted for the settlement of travel expenditures; in 154 addition, the holder may use them to obtain funds from banks abroad up to F 1,000 a week. All fares for trips starting in France may be paid in francs, as may hotel costs and other transportation expenses. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out F 5,000 in French banknotes. These banknotes may be used abroad, and any amount taken out is charged against the basic exchange allocation of F 5,000. Non- resident travelers may take out F 5,000 in French bank- notes and may reconvert into foreign currency in the French exchange market any French banknotes up to F 5,000 obtained by the conversion in that market of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any remaining French banknotes must be de- posited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 5,000 in means of payments acquired in the ex- change market against a tourist travel allocation. Non- resident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign banknotes unless these were declared upon entry and the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported minus any amounts exchanged for francs plus any reconver- sion of francs into foreign currencies. However, non- resident travelers may freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad; in addi- tion, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, they may take out any amount in foreign banknotes or foreign currency travelers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange in the French exchange market, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other ex- ports also require individual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' i tem s ), these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the exchange market. The repatriation6 and, where appropriate, the surrender by sale in the exchange market of proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries is required, normally w i th in one month of the date on which the payment falls due but in any case w i th in eight working days of receipt by a French bank. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such ad- vances and their repayment may be settled in the ex- change marke t, as may the proceeds f rom the discount- ing of foreign currency drafts presented by exporters. The due date of the commercial contract (and, there- fore, the due date of the export receipt) may not be " Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign cur- rency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution more than 180 days af ter arrival of the goods at their destination, except with special authorization, or, when a guarantee by the Compagnie Frangaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (COFACE) has been ob- tained. Export proceeds must not be received in French or foreign banknotes or banknotes issued by an institute of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking account in France. All export transactions related to for- eign countries and valued at F 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank; the Director- General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms from domiciliation requirements. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in francs, and are exempt f rom taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun- tries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered within one month f rom the due date and in any case within eight working days of receipt. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin (except gold coin) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign cur- rency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the exchange market any foreign banknotes or travel- ers checks in excess of F 1,000 within a month of entry. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. With the exception of purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special con- trols over borrowing abroad and over inward direct investment). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are freely permitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use as their principal or secondary residence, up to F 150,000 a family unit. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned funds, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. FRANCE French and foreign securities held in France by non- residents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French and foreign securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be trans- ferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresident must be deposited w i th an authorized bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a quali- fied bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French authorized bank or broker. The export for the account of residents of French securities held in France is pro- hibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct investment that are summarized below, residents may freely purchase French and foreign securities on stock exchanges abroad, through authorized banks, except, however, equities with a ma tu r i ty of less than five years issued by foreign gov- ernments.7 Such French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or be sold on a French stock exchange. The proceeds of the sale abroad of French or foreign securities must be sold on the exchange mar- ket w i th in two months of receipt, unless used within that period for reinvestment in securities abroad. Corres- pondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign secur- ities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or la ter) may freely import them into France and hold them in a foreign dossier, or sell them on a stock exchange in France and repatriate the proceeds through the exchange market. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad and over inward and out- ward direct investment. In principle, these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. At present, however, their application is in many instances affected by exchange control require- ments. With the exception of the controls over capital issues in France, the transaction controls do not apply to the Operations Account countries. Furthermore, the transaction controls over direct investment are not applicable to member countries of the EC, where direct investment transactions are subject to exchange control declaration and exchange control approval only. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad, including loans constituting a direct investment, require prior declaration to the Min- ister of Economy; as regards member countries of the EC, the declaration is required under the exchange con- 7 The existing general permissions do not cover the sale in France by nonresidents, or the purchase abroad by residents, of securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE trol regulations rather than under the special transaction controls, and prior exchange control authorization is required for all direct investment operations liable to involve a capital movement. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participation in any other firm may be considered a direct investment. The Directorate of the Treasury, in evaluating the degree of control, takes into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, patents and licenses, com- mercial contracts, etc. Loans granted by a parent com- pany to its subsidiary are subject to the same regulations as direct investments. Except in respect of EC countries, the Minister may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him within two months f rom receipt of the declaration. If the amount involved is more than F 1 million, documentary evidence must be submitted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquida- tion itself must be reported to the Minister within 20 days af ter it takes place. As an exception to the declaration and approval requirements summarized above, the making or liquida- tion of direct investments abroad by residents is exempt from prior declaration or prior authorization when the amount involved does not exceed F 3 million a year for each beneficiary firm abroad, and provided that the transactions do not involve holding companies, invest- ment companies, investment trusts, unit trusts, mutual funds, or companies whose purpose it is to facilitate the financing or treasury functions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups, as well as the financing of investments in agriculture and real estate. Certain inward direct investment up to F 3 million a transaction also is exempt from prior declaration or authorization. Foreign issues on the French capital market are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy. The following types of bor- rowing are, in principle, exempt from this au thor iza t ion: ( 1) borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad; (2) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports of goods; (3) loans related to certain international merchanting transactions; (4) 156 borrowing related to the performance of services (other than income from labor or capital), when undertaken to finance operations executed abroad or transactions with foreign countries; (5) loans contracted by banks expressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all authorized bank s ); and (6) foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank firms, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed F 10 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the borrowing is not for the purpose of direct investment, that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered, and that each draw- ing against the loan is separated by at least one year f rom the corresponding repayment. All borrowings in Eurofrancs are subject to prior authorization. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France, within the frame- work of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been virtually free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the granting of guarantees and varying limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresidents in francs, however, is prohibited, with minor exceptions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in francs and foreign currency to nonresidents are free f rom limitation. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coin in Paris, to which residents have free and anonymous access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having neither a fineness nor a weight that is recognized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France require prior authoriza- tion by the Bank of France. Imports or exports to or f rom the Bank of France itself, however, are exempted f rom that requirement. Imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but inc lud ing both personal and other jewelry) or numis- matic gold coins, provided that their combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, are similarly exempt. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration as are imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coin are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs duty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coin are subject to capital gains tax. Changes during 1979 February 26. Import and export arrangements for gold were changed. Only imports and exports of "mone- tary" gold (defined as gold having neither a fineness nor a weight that is recognized on the gold market) would require prior authorization. Imports and exports of "industrial" gold would require only a simple decla- ration. Imports and exports effected to or from the Bank of France were exempted from the prior authori- zation requirement, and imports and exports of gold objects by private persons were exempted from the prior declaration requirement, provided that their combined weight did not exceed 500 grams. March 13. France's participation in the EMS became effective. July 31. The granting of licenses for imports of lamb f rom the United Kingdom was suspended temporarily. August 13. It was announced that licenses would be required for the import of certain knitwear articles from all countries. The requirement was repealed on Octo- ber 15. October 1. It was announced that lending limits on certain forms of credit, including medium-term and long-term export financing, would be imposed for the period January-June 1980. October 24. The ban on imports of lamb from the United Kingdom was lifted. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks at present take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BE AC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of stu- dents. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. The Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Economy and Finance supervises borrow- ing and lending abroad. Exchange control is admin- istered by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has delegated his approval authority for current pay- ments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import authorizations or licenses, and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other l fThe CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and the Congo. 158 countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. imports and Import Payments Imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of all formalities. All imports from countries out- side the UDEAC are subject to either an authorization to import (where the va lue is more than CFAF 500,000) or a license to import. All imports, of any origin, are subject to authorization. For perishables and spare parts a provisional authorization is given to avoid administrative delays. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products2 are subject to licensing, but, in practice, licenses are granted liberally. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authoriza- tions to import entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate docu- ments are submitted. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and 2 Such as cement, wheat, and batteries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allo- cation. Travelers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French banknotes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for tourist travel; for business travel the amount of such banknotes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Trans- fers may be effected without limit through the banking or postal systems. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no general regulations concerning exports. Exports of refined petroleum products, cacao, coffee, and crocodile skins require authorization, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 150 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisible transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the former French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers GABON to all other countries require the approval of the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign cur- rency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of con- trols over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Economy and Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also must be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as con- stituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months f rom receipt of the declaration the Ministry may request the postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquida- tion of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days follow- ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government and (2) shares similar to securi- ties whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 mil- lion or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and July 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion from direct taxes on specified income. A Minimum of 10 per cent state participation is required for any enterprise located in Gabon. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protec- tion against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, of public credit, and of government contracts. A Presidential Decree of April 11, 1975 provides that foreign companies invest- ing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals. Non-Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et d'Exploitation Minieres (SOGAREM). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1979 February 22. Importers of goods intended for use directly or indirectly in industry or trade were required to insure such goods with an authorized insurance com- pany in Gabon. 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi, which is pegged to the pound sterling, the intervention currency, at D 4 = <£ stg. 1. The Central Bank of The Gambia deals in pounds sterling at the fixed rate of D 4 = <£ stg. 1, subject to a commission of 0.0625 per cent buying and 0.5 per cent selling. The commercial banks deal with customers for spot transactions in ster- ling at rates within 1 per cent of the Central Bank's fixed rate and in other currencies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency con- cerned against sterling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Min- istry of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day administra- tion of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of foreign currencies for imports covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amounts, for travel expenses and sundry payments abroad. All other sales of foreign currencies are subject to the authorization of the Cen- tral Bank. The Ministry of Finance and Trade is respon- sible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or in dalasis or sterling from nonresident sources. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments from resi- dents of other countries, with transfers from other Exter- nal Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of other currencies. They may be debited for any payments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts, and for purchases of other currencies. In addition, there is legal provision for authorized dealers to maintain Blocked Accounts under the direc- tion of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is prohibited from all sources, predominantly for social or health reasons or on grounds of public policy. The import from any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fair domestic pricing. The Gam- bia Produce Marketing Board is responsible for rice imports. All other imports are freely permitted under an open general license if imported from the following countries: (1) all countries within the former Sterling Area; (2) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States, together with the overseas territories of these coun- tries; and (3) Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Sene- gal, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. Imports are subject to spe- cific licensing if imported from other countries. Settlement for imports from other countries may be approved by an authorized dealer on production of evidence of importation for any commodity that is covered by a valid specific import license. For imports that do not require specific licensing, payment author- ization is given by the Central Bank on production of evidence of importation or shipment. Advance pay- ments for imports, whether or not these are covered by specific licenses, are approved by the Central Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance with normal commercial practice. Pay- ments for imports may be made in dalasis or sterling to an External Account or in any currency other than Rhodesian currency. All goods are subject to an import tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value unless otherwise specified. Imports made by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles in foreign currencies require permission from the Central Bank, with the exception that authorized dealers have been delegated powers to authorize travel expenses and sundry payments. Per- mission is given in all genuine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the journey, authorized dealers may grant a basic exchange allowance up to D 750 a person a trip but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one calendar year for travel abroad. For business, professional, or official purposes, authorized dealers may provide residents with exchange facilities up to D 1,750 for any one journey at a rate not exceeding D 125 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of D 3,500 in any one calendar year. Any excess over these allowances requires permission from the Cen- tral Bank, but all such applications are approved pro- vided that no capital outflow is involved. Of the above amounts, up to D 250 may be taken out in foreign cur- 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA rency notes and coin. Irrespective of destination, a traveler leaving The Gambia may take out D 75 in Gambian and /or sterling currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other currency notes declared by them when enter- ing the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of domestic requirements, the export of charcoal and firewood is subject to specific licensing. The export of all goods to Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia also requires a specific license. The export of all other goods to any other destination is freely permitted under an open general license. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board is the sole exporter of groundnut products, oil palm kernels, cotton, and all derivatives of cotton. Payment for exports must be received within six months from the date of export in a currency other than Rhodesian currency, or in dalasis, or in sterling from an External Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. There is no restriction on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled, but outward transfers are subject to control. At the time of making investments in The Gambia, nonresident inves- tors may apply for a clearance from the Central Bank to facilitate subsequent repatriation of capital; the remit- tance of profits is allowed freely after provision has been made for local taxes and other legally incurred liabilities in The Gambia. All other applications to transfer capital abroad are dealt with by the Central Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Such authorization is normally given freely for the purpose of providing working capital to companies registered out- side The Gambia for their local operations. Gold The import of gold coin minted in the United King- dom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance and Trade; otherwise, gold coin and bullion may be imported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central Bank. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Ge rmany1 participates with Bel- gium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ), whereby each country maintains the value of its currency in relation to the currencies of the other par t ic ipa t ing countries. Under this agreement, spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other partici- pants are maintained within margins of 2.25 per cent above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs), except for the Italian lira for which the temporary intervention limit is plus or m inus 6 per cent. The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 these rates were Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 6.380 100 Danish kroner 32.870 100 French francs 43.415 1 Irish pound 3.799 1,000 Italian lire 2.276 100 Netherlands guilders 92.525 6.099 31.420 41.505 3.632 2.019 88.455 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert with other participants to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates. In p r in- ciple, interventions are made in participating currencies but they may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange mar- ket of F rank fu rt am Main.2 On December 31, 1979 the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 1.7315 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. 1 The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (Wes t ). 2 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal M in i s t ry of Economics, the Federal M in is t ry of Finance, the Federal M in is t ry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry, the Federal Min- is try for Food, Ag r icu l tu re, and Forestry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Ag r icu l tu ral Marke t ing Organization, and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. Article 23 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law (Aussenwirtschaftsgesetz) of 1961 has been invoked to apply direct controls to certain inward capital transac- tions between residents and nonresidents.3 The Deutsche Bundesbank is in charge of the implementation of the capital controls. The Bundesbank's prior approval is required for transactions invo lv ing the sale by residents to nonresidents of German money market paper and fixed-interest securities w i th a rema in ing ma tu r i ty of up to four yea rs4 or that are eligible for delivery under en pension transactions w i th in the same ma tur i ty. All banks in Ge rmany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A vo lun ta ry coordinating body w i th in the bank ing system, the Central Capital Market Committee, formulates recommendations with regard to the t im i ng and the terms of domestic and foreign bond issues, except issues by those institutions that have recourse to the capital market on a permanent basis. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 8,437 statistical positions. Their treatment is as follows: some 7,602 items may be imported free of license from any country. Commodities corresponding to some 8,131 positions may be imported free of license from countries in Coun try List A /B .r> Certain petroleum products (7 posi- t ions) require a license irrespective of origin. Imports of coal f rom countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community are permitted w i th in the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural Policy of the EC covers 1,426 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies which in most cases have replaced pre- vious barriers to imports, but for some items an import license is still required by EC regulations. "The concepts of resident and nonresident are defined in Article 4, Section 1, and Article 4a of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law. 4 With effect from March 17, 1980 approval is granted for maturities f rom two to four years. •"Countries in List A /B are those of the fo rmer OEEC area and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. Countries in List C are Albania, member countries of the Council for Mu tual Eco- nomic Assistance (CMEA ), People's Republic of China, and North Korea. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY De facto liberalization is applicable to certain com- modities (330 statistical items) when originating in and purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., or Viet Nam. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, provided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely (AM LA6 procedure). Imports of certain commodities among those not sub- ject to licensing require, for surveillance purposes only, an import declaration stamped by the Federal Office for Trade and Industry. These import declarations are partly prescribed by the EC. For imports still subject to quantitative restriction (w i th certain exceptions, such as food items imported by tourists, samples, gifts, and small parcels), an individual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschrei- bung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first- come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are permanen t ly open (AMLA6 procedure). Payments for imports are free, even if the unde r ly ing import transaction is still restricted. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely. Most transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely with- out ind iv idual license. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related pay- ments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of fore ign ships f rom resi- dents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; transactions with specified coun- tries (which do not grant reciprocal trea tmen t) for hull and mar ine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance; and the production of motion pictures in association with nonresidents.7 Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be car- ried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notifi- cation is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to ind iv idual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declara- tions. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not 6 Ausschreibungen mit lau fender An t r ag s t e l lung. 7 Restrictions are applied only to the acqu is i t ion f rom nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German- speaking version or in a German-synchronized version, the acquisi tion of rights to films of any k ind or ig ina t ing in CMEA countries, and the acceptance of film services from CMEA countries. 164 have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresi- dents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance through the delivery to resi- dents of List C countries (see footnote 5) of construc- tional drawings, materials, and instructions for manu- fac tu re, if such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 1,000 on account of services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely w i thout a license. Foreign and in terna t ional bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approva l, although a system of voluntary coordination of issuing banks is operated by the Central Capital Mar- ket Committee. The placement abroad of bonds denom- inated in deutsche mark through the intermediation of subsidiaries of German banks in Luxembourg is banned under a gentlemen's agreement between the banks and the Bundesbank. In principle, domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. Only a few types of capital inflows remain restricted. The pr ior approval of the Bundesbank is required for sales to nonresidents of specified domestic money market paper and of fixed-interest securities of German issuers w i th up to four years remaining to maturity, as well as for en pension transactions with nonresidents involving fixed-interest securities of German issuers where such securities are eligible for delivery in less than four years w i th in the same ma tu r i ty (see footnote 4). At present, such approval is not being given. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, purchases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. Interest payable to nonresident holders of fixed-interest securities of German issuers is subject to a withholding tax of 25 per cent ("coupon tax"). There are no limi- ta t ions on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies abroad and inher i ted by residents. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to minimum reserve requirements on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1979 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, i.e., 14.65 per cent, 10.3 per cent, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and 6.5 per cent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respectively. The principal exemption is for banks' for- eign currency borrowings that are immediately rein- vested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domes- tic or fore ign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any fo rm at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in F r ank fu r t. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bu l l ion and coin, unworked gold, and gold alloys are free of customs du ty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 13 per cent. In the case of imports of gold coin where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 6.5 per cent. Imports of gold coin having legal tender status are exempt from value-added tax.8 Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and from customs du ty. Domestic purchases of gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but no value-added tax is levied on purchases of gold bu l l ion effected on gold exchanges between brokers who are admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in practically all cases are liberalized. Changes during 1979 January 3. The Swiss National Bank announced that the three leading Swiss banks had extended for another two years a credit of DM 750 m i l l ion to Germany which had been arranged in 1976 to support the deutsche mark against the Swiss franc. Another two-year extension was to be given by a fou r th bank for its DM 200 m i l l ion credit to Germany when it expired in March 1979. February 1. M in imum reserve requirements were raised by 5 per cent on both domestic and foreign liabilities. February 11. The 70th O rd inance Am end ing the Import List was issued. It contained, inter alia, the de facto liberalization of certain imports from the People's Republic of China under permanently open tenders (AM LA procedure) in accordance with the general trade agreement between the People's Republic of Ch ina and the EC. In addition, the licensing requirement was abol- ished for the import of 42 items from List C countries, which had previously been de facto liberalized under the AMLA procedure. The import of certain textiles orig- ina t ing in Portugal was subjected to an approval require- ment so as to supervise the observation of quotas agreed between Portugal and the EC. Quotas were lifted on cer- 8 This exemption was abolished with effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1980. FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY ta in imports from state trad ing countries, while EC quotas were introduced on others. February 21. DM 2.5 b i l l ion worth of U.S. Treasury notes w i th ma tu r i t ies of two and a half years and three and a half years were placed by the Bundesbank. The notes could not be sold or resold to nonresidents. February-March. The Bundesbank and credit institu- t ions concluded a six-month gentlemen's agreement whereby the banks undertook not to place deutsche mark bonds abroad through the in termed ia t ion of their Luxembourg subsidiaries. March 13. In accordance with the Resolution of the European Council of December 5, 1978, the EMS replaced the European common margins arrangement. Pa r t ic ipa t ing currencies were allowed to fluctuate by plus or minus 2.25 per cent around the bilateral central rates, except that the marg in for the I ta l ian l ira was tem- po ra r i ly set at plus or m inus 6 per cent. The upper and lower l im i ts for the deutsche ma rk vis-a-vis the other p a r t i c i p a t i ng currencies were Specified In terven t ion Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 I ta l ian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 6.508 36.2350 44.285 3.875 2.322 94.375 6.221 34.6450 42.335 3.705 2.059 90.225 March 15. The Bundestag adopted an amendment to the law on tax benefits to stimulate private investment in deve lop ing countries. It provided for more favorable cond i t ions, in par t icu lar for investment in the 30 least developed countries and in raw materials and energy produc t ion. The amendment was passed by the Bundes- rat in May 1979 and took effect retroactively from Jan- ua ry 1, 1979. May 9. Following a decision of February 19, 1979 by the Council of the EC to increase the 1979 import quo ta for fe r roch rom ium f rom 80,000 tons to 330,000 tons, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry a n n o u n c ed a quota of 57,690 tons for Germany. May 31. The import of certain textiles f rom Malta was placed under EC surveillance. June 27. The Reconstruction Loan Corporation in i t ia ted a lend ing program to promote investment by German firms in developing countries. The loans would be for up to 15 years, including a grace period of up to 5 years, w i th interest rates of 2.5 per cent and 3.5 per cent for investments in developing countries of country group 1 and 2, respectively (according to the classifica- tion of the Developing Countries' Tax Law ). (See also en t ry for March 15, above.) 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY June 30. The 71st Ordinance Amend ing the Import List contained the following provisions: (1) it adapted the import regulations to conform to textile export restraint agreements concluded by the EC with various textile exporting countries; (2) it lifted import licensing requirements for certain items already liberalized de facto and imported from within the EC; (3) it altered, in line with EC guidelines, the surveillance requirements on the import of certain steel products from outside the EC; and (4) it introduced adaptations ref lec t ing the new International Coffee Agreement. September 7. The six-month gentlemen's agreement between the Bundesbank and banks whereby the banks undertook not to place deutsche mark bonds abroad through the intermediation of their Luxembourg sub- sidiaries was extended for another six months. Both parties also agreed to form a joint working group to devise criteria of conduct so as to avoid a prohibition on placements. September 17. In implementation of EC import regu- lations for certain textiles from Bulgaria and Hong Kong as well as for wool and animal hair from Argentina and Brazil, Germany subjected these items to import licenses. September 24. Following a realignment of EMS cur- rency exchange rates representing an appreciation of the deutsche mark of 5 per cent against the Danish krone and of 2 per cent against all other EMS currencies par- ticipating in the exchange rate mechanism, new inter- vention limits for the deutsche mark against the other EMS currencies went into effect, as follows: Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 6.380 6.099 100 Danish kroner 34.510 32.995 100 French francs 43.415 41.505 1 Irish pound 3.799 3.632 1,000 Italian lire 2.276 2.019 100 Netherlands guilders 92.525 88.455 November 29. It was announced that in accordance with a new turnover tax law to become effective on Jan- u a ry 1, 1980, the sale of gold coin having legal tender status would become subject to value-added tax. November 30. Following the devaluation of the Danish krone of 4.76 per cent against all currencies within the EMS exchange rate mechanism, the Bundes- bank fixed the upper and lower intervention points for the Danish krone at DM 32.870 and DM 31.420, respectively, per DKr 100. December 19. Germany lifted the sanctions imposed on transactions and payments with Rhodesia. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi. In June 1978, Ghana introduced a flexible exchange system under which the exchange rate for the cedi in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was to be adjusted to reflect the underlying economic, financial, and balance of payments situation. Such adjustments were discontinued, however, in August 1978 and had not been resumed by December 31, 1979. On December 31, 1979 the official buying and selling rate for the U.S. dollar was <t 2.75 per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. The authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency but they do not maintain foreign exchange balances, receiving their requirements from the Bank of Ghana (the central bank) on a day-to-day basis. Different exchange rates for the cedi arise from the application of an export bonus scheme (10 per cent for all exports except cocoa) and from a 30 per cent surcharge on exchange alloca- tions for foreign travel, as well as from mandatory cash margin deposits against import letters of credit. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade and Tourism is empowered to prohibit, regu- late, or license all imports and exports. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for ind i- vidual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorse- ment. The Controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program drawn up by a technical committee on imports, supervised by the Import License Allocation Commission on which the Bank of Ghana, various ministries, the armed forces, and the Chamber of Commerce are represented. All import licenses must be signed by the Director of Imports. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for pay- ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other countries are made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clear- ing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and/or 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Nigerian naira, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish peseta., Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Current payments to or from the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident account status is granted to embassies, legations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the career and established members of their staffs. This facility is also available to international institutions and foreign registered companies operating in Ghana. These accounts in cedis held by nonresidents with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with trans- fers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any convertible currency, other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for inward payments, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of external currencies, other than Rho- desian currency. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provi- sions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward pay- ments by residents, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agree- ment countries, and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds, may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Namibia (South West Afr ica), Rho- desia, and South Africa are not permitted. Imports of 3 Ghana maintains bilateral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China, Romania, and Yugoslavia. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA some goods, including virtually all textiles and textile products, chocolate, and chilled or frozen fish, are prohibited. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, certain luxury commodities, and certain goods deemed ha rm ful to health or public order are severely restricted. These are specified in a List of Restricted Imports. Applications for the importation of items on the restricted list are normally not approved. There is an open general license which permits any importer to import freely from any country trade samples, personal or household effects, small gifts, single copies of publi- cations, domestic pets, headloads of foodstuffs from neighboring countries, fish caught by Ghanaian-owned vessels, and reimports. All other items require a specific import license. There is a list of commercial imports eligible for specific licenses which are issued for items that are considered essential within the framework of an annual import program. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Procurement Agency, or for public sector im- ports, the Ghana Supply Commission. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be imported, but they do specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports from any payments agreement country. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Exchange for payment of approved imports is, in principle, granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. How- ever, arrears exist with respect to both current import payments and the repayments of matured 180-day trade credits established before February 7, 1972. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through Ghanaian banks, and usually on a sight basis. Cash margin deposits are prescribed on the opening of letters of credit for most imports. The rates applicable are nil for crude oil and fertilizers; 25 per cent for industrial raw materials, chemicals, spare parts, lubricants, drugs and other medical supplies, and build- ing materials; 50 per cent for machinery and equipment (including transport equipment other than automobiles); and 65 per cent for all other goods, including private passenger automobiles. For imports valued at over US$2,000 f.o.b., banks are forbidden to make payments against a letter of credit or a bank draft unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited of Geneva, which inspects the goods and verifies the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank 01 Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all 168 applications. Certain payments and transfers are in arrears. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments are generally authorized. The payment of buying commission on imports is not permitted. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applica- tion is properly documented. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are normally limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600 a year plus leave pay; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and family requirements and commit- ments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel, education, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Expatriate employees in the mining and petroleum industries and in certain other industries are not affected by the limit and, furthermore, are allowed to transfer their savings at the end of each tour of duty. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self-employed persons are also limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, nonresident companies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; at present, however, transfers of profits are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel, which had been reintroduced on August 21, 1978, was suspended again on August 7, 1979; foreign exchange for business travel is granted once a year in an amount of US$85 a day for a maximum of two weeks. Addi- tional allocations are permitted for business travel in connection with export promotion. All travel allocations are subject to a tax of 30 per cent. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who are leaving Ghana by air or sea for any purpose, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 15 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may take with them foreign cur- rency notes equivalent to (£ 100, provided that not more than the equivalent of (Z 20 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes up to C 20 may be taken out by any traveler. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia (South West Afr ica), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of iron and steel scrap also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agr icu l tural products are exported through a state-owned export agency, the Cocoa Council, and diamonds are exported through the Diamond Marketing Corporation. Normally, specific export licenses are required. Exporters are required to collect and repatriate the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters surrender ing export proceeds in external A f r ican cur- rencies or convertible currencies are granted an export bonus. This bonus is 10 per cent of the proceeds for all exports except cocoa. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Under the Foreign Exchange (Cedi Voucher) Regulations, 1976, no visa or en try permit may be granted to travelers unless they have purchased in foreign exchange f rom Ghanaian embassies abroad, or on arrival in Ghana, vouchers corresponding to @ 140 for the first day's stay plus @ 70 for each subsequent day of their stay in the country. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. The import of Ghana ian cur- rency notes in excess of <Z 20 is prohibited. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval by the Capital Investment Board if it is to benefit f rom the facilities available under the Capital Investments Decree of 1973. Investments approved under the Decree are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also avail- able for such investments. The Decree stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized, fa ir compensation is to be determined either by volun- tary agreement of the parties or through arb i tra t ion by the International Centre for Settlement of Inves tment Disputes. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Government policy aims at the "Ghanaianization" of many economic activities. This policy is implemented primarily on the basis of the Investment Policy Decree, 1975, and the Ghana ian Enterprises Development Decree, 1975. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Ghanaian nationals are held in blocked, noninterest-bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Transfers of such funds are be ing effected gradually. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intes- tacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on GHANA the ir merits. Applications must be supported by appro- priate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of the real assets of for- eign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for t rans fer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in securities are con- tro l led to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad. In respect of portfolio investments, residents must obtain approval for any switch in the ir holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. New borrowing abroad by the pub l ic sector is screened by the Par l iamen t. Private sec- tor and commercial bank borrowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana as do private import credits in excess of <Z 100,000 for mach inery and equipment. Lend ing to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval and no rm a l ly are l im i ted to 60 days. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or m in ing according to ind igenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be author- ized by the M in is t ry of Trade and Tourism in collabo- ration w i th the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold M i n i ng Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Ghana ian residents may not buy or borrow any gold f rom, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not no rm a l ly licensed. The import du ty on bullion and pa r t ly worked gold is 10 per cent and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their output in sem i re f ined fo rm. Exports by any one person or firm in excess of 100,000 ounces are subject to export tax at a rate of (£ 3 per troy ounce. Changes during 1979 January. A ban was imposed on exports of round logs, both as a conservation measure and to encourage domestic t imber processing. March 9. A currency exchange was introduced to reduce cash holdings of up to (2 5,000 by 30 per cent and larger holdings by 50 per cent. It was also designed to cut off illegal banknote holdings abroad. August 7. The basic foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel, which had been reintroduced in August 1978, was again suspended. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The authorities of Greece operate a managed float for the drachma, and do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. On December 29, 1979 the Bank of Greece quoted buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, of Dr 37.90 and Dr 38.67, respectively, per US$1. Official quotations for certain other currencies 1 are determined daily on the basis of the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. The Bank of Greece offers forward cover in U.S. dollars only. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, the Currency Committee, the Credit Subcommittee, the Foreign Exchange Control Subcommittee, and the Foreign Exchange Subcommit- tee for Financial Requirements. The Ministry of Com- merce and the Bank of Greece are responsible for import policy. Exchange control is implemented, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the appropriate min- istry. The authorized banks may make exchange settle- ments relating to permitted trade transactions and may grant residents a standard travel allowance. They may also make exchange payments for a number of specified transactions in invisibles. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements 2 are made through con- trolled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account. Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts in Greece, as follows: 1. Deposits in foreign exchange under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53. Nonresidents may establish time deposit accounts in foreign currency for a minimum 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. The Bank of Greece also quotes bankno te rates for various foreign currencies. 2 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. Most settle- ments with Portugal are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. 170 period of six months and with a minimum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest not exceeding 8 per cent a year. Interest rates vary according to the term of the account, but limits are fixed, as follows: for 6 months to 12 months, 7 per cent a year; for 12 months to 24 months, 7.5 per cent a year; and for 24 months and over, 8 per cent a year. Principal and interest are freely transferable at ma tu r i ty in the currency of the deposit. 2. External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas and in foreign currencies. Nonresidents are permitted to open External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas or foreign currencies. Deposits in convertible drachmas are assigned by a bank to the Bank of Greece against drachmas at the official rate of exchange. Deposits in convertible foreign currency are held by the banks. Any withdrawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of with- drawals from foreign currency accounts into drachmas entails the loss of the reconversion right for the sums withdrawn. At the end of 1979, the maximum rate of interest on such accounts with the banks was 1.5 per cent a year. These accounts may be credited with (a) convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies; (b) authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies; (c) transfers from other External Sight Deposit Accounts; and (d) accrued interest on these deposits. They may be debited for (a) payments to residents for current transactions, exports, and serv- ices; (b) the purchase and transfer abroad of any con- vertible currency; and (c) transfers to other External Sight Deposit Accounts. 3. Time Deposit Accounts in Convertible Foreign Exchange may be maintained, as follows: (a) Nonresidents may make time deposits in convert- ible foreign exchange with banks that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The minimum period of this deposit is 3 months and the interest rate is determined freely by the banks according to rates obtaining abroad, provided that the banks hold the foreign currency and pay interest out of earnings derived from investing these deposits abroad. (b) Greek nationals residing abroad may make time deposits in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars of a maxi- mum amount of US$200,000 (or the equivalent in Canadian dollars) for each depositor for a period up to 12 months. The interest rates are determined by the Currency Committee; at the end of 1979 the limits were for deposits of 3 months to 6 months, 12 per cent a year and for deposits of 6 months to 12 months, 13 per cent a year. For a deposit over the maximum amount and for more than 12 months, the interest rate is determined ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution on a case-by-case basis under arrangements between ind iv idual banks and the Bank of Greece. When a depos- itor wishes to make a time deposit in a currency other than the U.S. dollar or the Canadian dollar, separate arrangements must be made between the bank and the Bank of Greece regarding the currency, the amount deposited, and the interest rate to be paid by the bank. The m in imum period for such deposits is 6 months. 4. Greek citizens (including seamen) who are work- ing abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may establish, with funds originating abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Greece. At the end of 1979 the maximum interest rates payable on these accounts were (a) accounts in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or pounds sterling: sight deposits, 3 per cent a year; savings deposits, 8 per cent a year; and time deposits of 3 months to 6 months, 12 per cent a year and of 6 months to 12 months, 13 per cent a year; and (b) accounts in deutsche mark and other currencies (except Japa- nese yen and French f r a n c s ): sight deposits, 3 per cent a year; savings deposits, 7 per cent a year; and time deposits of 3 months to 6 months, 9 per cent a year and of 6 months to 12 months, 10 per cent a year. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely convertible into foreign exchange. Withdrawals in drach- mas entail the loss of the reconversion right for the sums withdrawn. Similar facilities for foreign currency accounts exist under a Housing Loan Deposit Scheme. 5. Blocked Accounts. All drachma assets of non- residents other than those in External Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared, and are held in Blocked Accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 1,500 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a Blocked Account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on Blocked Accounts held by residents of countries that have special agreements with Greece 3 may be used for such purposes as (a) personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 100,000 for each month of the visitor's stay in Greece and up to Dr 50,000 for other members of his family, and travel expenses for each visit to Greece; (b) expenses for paying taxes and lawyers' fees; and (c) investing in securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchasing real estate in Greece. Payments abroad from funds in Blocked Accounts may be released for remittance provided that (a) where the money deposited is derived exclusively from rents, amounts of up to US$1,000 (or its equivalent) may be transferred abroad semiannually and (b) where the money depos- ited is derived exclusively from pensions and the holder has been resident abroad since before December 31, :I Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Nc~- way, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and the United States. GREECE 1974, up to US$300 a month, plus bonuses for New Year, Easter, and vacation, up to a total of US$4,200 a n n u a l ly may be remitted abroad. Funds derived from dividends of postwar public loans and loans of public organizations are freely transferable abroad, and other balances on Blocked Accounts may be transferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All transfers between Blocked Accounts require prior approval. The amounts that may be with- drawn from Blocked Accounts differ in cases where the holders do not live in the countries listed in foot- note 3. Blocked balances may be deposited either with the Bank of Greece where they bear no interest, or with a commercial bank, the Consignations and Loans Fund, and the Postal Savings Bank, where they earn interest of 11.5 per cent a year. Imports and Import Payments All imports require approval (except those of goods on Lists F and P with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$1,100 or less, for which payment will be made through an authorized bank ). The granting of an import approval implies that the necessary foreign exchange will be made available. Two general proce- dures (E and D) are applied to import approvals. Under procedure D, an approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required (1) for certain imports effected for the account of the State; (2) for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc.; and (3) for imports from cer- tain countries. All other imports are made under proce- dure E and approval is granted by a commercial bank. Import approvals must be obtained prior to shipment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are required only for imports of com- modities in List A (including gold, jewelry, furs, textiles, television receivers, and certain foodstuffs) and List B (certain types of machinery and spare parts). For a few items on List A licenses are being issued restrictively, but for the remainder they are issued automatically. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, sulfur, and motion-picture films. Private imports are subject to (1) restrictions on the method of payment, (2) controls over the time period required to make final settlement and the time of ship- ment, and (3) various advance deposit requirements. For the purpose of these regulations, all private imports are classified in six lists (F, F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, and P ). Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documents, or by acceptance of time drafts. Payment by time draft is permitted only for goods in List P; there is no restriction on maturity. For 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE imports not included in List P, the Committee for Regu- la t ing Matters Concerning Imports at the Bank of Greece may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments. Payments for imports may be made on the presentation of entry documents. Various advance deposit requirements apply to imports included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2. In addition, as part of the measures that were implemented in December 1979, an advance deposit of 75 per cent is also required for imports in Lists P and F.4 Deposits are accepted by the intervening commercial bank, which redeposits them with the Bank of Greece. These deposits do not bear any interest. Certain companies, public agen- cies, and organizations that have been designated public service institutions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Also, duty-free imports and imports for processing and re-export are exempt from these require- ments. The Committee for Regulating Matters Concern- ing Imports has authority to grant exemption. Different deposit requirements are stipulated, depending upon whether payments are made by letters of credit or cash against shipping documents. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. For imports paid for by letter of credit, there are three categories of advance deposits. First, when a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the entire amount of the credit with the intervening bank; this deposit is retained by the bank to safeguard against default, and the final settlement is made against this deposit. Second, a cash deposit related to the c.i.f. value is required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under procedure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made within 20 days of the import approval. The deposit is retained for a period of two to four months from the date on which it was made. For goods not included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2, advance deposits are refunded upon delivery of the shipping documents and the customs clearance. Third, when a letter of credit is opened, for a number of goods the importer is required to deposit an additional 75 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports at the intervening bank; this deposit is blocked for six months at the Bank of Greece. For imports for which payments are made against sight drafts, there are three categories of advance deposit requirement. First, when the importer applies for an import approval, he is required to deposit in cash a cer- tain proportion of the c.i.f. invoice value (prepaymen t). Second, a cash deposit of a certain proportion of the c.i.f. value is required as security for import duties and other taxes.5 Security deposits are not required, how- 4This measure was rescinded in April 1980. 5 For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced. 172 ever, for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt from import duty by virtue of the laws governing invest- ment of foreign or domestic capital. The deposit must be made with the intervening bank (1) at the time the import approval is obtained for imports under procedure E and (2) within 20 days of obtaining the import approval for imports ;mder procedure D. The deposits of the first and the second category are retained for a period of two to four months; for goods not included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2, advance deposits are refunded upon delivery of the shipping documents and the customs clearance. Third, when the importer applies for an import approval, he is required for a number of goods to deposit an additional 75 per cent of the c.i.f. value; this deposit is blocked for six months at the Bank of Greece. The rates of deposit in effect in 1979 are set out below: Prepayment Security Total (In per cent of invoice value) 50 20 70 20 8 28 100 40 140 40 16 56 List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 Goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within nine months after the date of import approval. Final settlement of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, for goods in List P settlement must take place within 120 days fol- lowing the date of arrival. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2-6 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Residents traveling abroad for family reasons or tour- ism are entitled to the equivalent of US$250 for one t r ip a year; instead of this allowance, tourists participat- ing in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Requests for larger amounts or for other types of travel are sub- mitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements. The Bank of Greece normally provides foreign exchange for travel other than tourism, w i th in the following limits: US$3,000 a trip for export- ers; US$2,000 a trip for industrialists and hotel man- agers; US$650 a trip for other businessmen; US$1,000 a trip for scientists attending international meetings; and US$750 a trip for newspaper editors and reporters and travel agents. For medical treatment abroad the Sub- committee authorizes any amount for transfer direct to a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fo re ign hospital, provided th at the re levant accoun ts are subm i t t ed. For und e rg r adu a te and pos tgradua te s tud ies, va r ious a l loca t ions are au tho r ized, depend ing on the coun try of study, such as US$390 and US$440 a mon th, respec t ive ly, for the Un i t ed States and Canada, «£ stg. 180 and <£ stg. 220 a m o n t h, respec t ive ly, for the U n i t ed K ingdom, and DM 700 and DM 830 a m o n t h, respec- t ive ly, for the Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany. Au tho r ized b anks are also empowered to g rant fore ign exchange up to US$200 for a l im i ted n um b er of other t ransac t ions. Travelers may take w i th them a m a x im um of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Greek na t iona ls, not i n c l u d i ng those resident abroad, are required to declare all domes- t ic and fo re ign bankno tes and other v a lu ab l es t a k en w i th them upon leav ing Greece. Non res ident trave lers on leav ing Greece may f ree ly take w i th them up to US$500 in foreign bankno tes w i thout hav ing declared them upon entry; the export of larger amoun ts a f ter a v i s it of less than 12 mon ths is also not subject to appro- val, provided that there was a declaration upon en try. Approval is required for larger sums that have been declared. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require ind iv idual licenses, but most exports are free of quantitative l im i ta t ion. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered w i th in 180 days f rom the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the au thor i t ies are empowered to extend th is period to two years for manu fac tu res and to one year for other commodities. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing paymen ts for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds f rom sh ipp ing are exempt f rom the surrender requ iremen t, but sh ip- owners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover the ir d isbursemen ts and expenses in Greece in local currency ob ta ined th rough the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may b r ing in a max imum of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Any su rp lus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to p r ior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be t ak en out on departure or spent in Greece on personal requ i remen ts. Greek residents re tu rn ing to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession if they wish to take it out for the next journey. Nonresident trave lers of fore ign na t iona l i ty may import any amount of fo r e ign currency and need not declare it at the t ime of en te r ing the country, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange on ly if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again for- eign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend GREECE co r re spond ing amoun ts as fore ign currency loans (or d r a c hma loans w i th a foreign exchange clause) for per iods of at least five years to produc t ive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by non r e s id en ts are subject to approval (m a i n ly for s e c u r i ng repa t r ia t ion of impor ted c a p i t a l ). Such approval is a u t om a t ic for pu rcha ses of real estate for personal use. Und er Leg is la t ive Decree No. 2687/53, approved f o r e i gn inve s tmen ts wh ich aim at the promotion of n a t i o n al p roduc t ion or otherwise con t r ibu te to the eco- n om ic advancement of Greece may be granted prefer- e n t i al t r e a tm e n t .0 U n d er Law No. 4171 /61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, by Legislative Decree No. 916 of J u ly 14, 1971, and by Law No. 159 of September 9, 1975, fu r th er privileges are provided for fo re ign cap i tal pa r t ic ipa t ing in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 150 m i l l ion in value. Moreover, Leg is la t ive Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional r e p a t r i a t i on f a c i l i t i es for fore ign inves tmen ts which pro- mote exports. R e p a t r i a t i on r e q u i r e m e n ts a re as f o l l ow s: ( 1) Approved inves tmen ts may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate produc t ive ly and in no case before one year f rom the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of fo r e ign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of d iv idends on equ i ty capital and of interest on loan capi- tal may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. ( 3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4 1 7 1 / 6 1, prof i ts on approved foreign investments may be t rans fe r red abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capi- t a l, p rov ided, however, that the amount of profits trans- fe r red sha ll not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange ea rn ings of the en te rp r ise f rom the sale of its p roduc ts abroad. (4) For inves tmen ts made under Leg- is la t ive Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4 1 7 1 / 6 1, the transfer of profits is related to the res idual capital r em a in ing in Greece, and the trans- fer p r iv i lege expires as soon as all capital has been repa- t r ia ted. (5) A r t ic le 33 of Law No. 849/78 provides for a h igher percen tage for the repatriation of cap i tal (up to 15 per c en t) and of d iv idends (up to 20 per cen t ), prov ided that the total amount does not exceed 30 per cent of the fo re ign exchange earnings of the firm f rom expor ts d u r i ng the same year. Also, loans in fore ign cur- rency approved und er Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repa t r ia ted at an a n n u al rate of up to 20 per cent, prov ided th at the am o u nt of the loan does not exceed twice the va lue of the share capital. Dev ia t ions f rom the general regu la t ions may be approved for fore ign capital imported to develop exports of a g r i c u l t u r al and m in ing products or invested in enter- " This decree also provides for the opening of fo re ign currency accounts by nonres iden ts and the re t ran s fer of the deposits as well as the t r a n s f er of i n t e r e st the reon. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE prises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may free ly purchase specified gold coins (ma in ly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the Bank of Greece; these coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coin acquired in the free market that existed prior to Decem- ber 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without forma l i ty to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the official price. Residents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and require a special license; licenses are normally issued to reputable importers for d is tr ibu t ion to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coin may be imported freely by commercial banks and other residents as well as nonresidents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other th an by the Bank of Greece are not approved, with the exception that gold bars or coin brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may, with the prior approval of the Bank's Credit Subcommittee, be re-exported by the same person. f Changes during 1979 January 1. Transactions with Egypt were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 1. The suspension of certain imports of Jap- anese origin, imposed on June 23, 1978, was l if ted. January 1. The period during which feedstuff might be imported duty free was extended to December 31, 1979. January 11. It was announced that the reimburse- ment of interest for export credits for goods supplied to European countries other than members of the EC would be increased from 55 per cent to 60 per cent. (The reimbursement rate for exports to non-European countries remained at 75 per cent.) March 2. An antidumping duty of Dr 6 a kilogram was introduced on live swine imported for slaughtering; the an t idump ing du ty on calf liver was raised to Dr 58 a kilogram. April 1. Foreign exchange allowances for students s tudy ing abroad were increased by 10 per cent. May 28. The Accession Agreement between Greece and the EC was signed; the Act of Accession would enter into force on January 1, 1980. June 30. All foreign trade legislation was consoli- 174 dated in a new law designed to simplify the regulations and to facilitate harmonization with the members of the EC. September 7. Used automobiles and trucks, with the exception of buses, might be imported regardless of their date of registration or year of manufacture. September 28. Certain conditions were established for imports of secondhand machinery, excluding machin- ery for agricultural use. The machinery would not be intended for sale, would have been manufactured within the last five years, and would be imported only from a member of the EC. The value of the machinery would be less than 80 per cent of the price of equivalent new machinery, and the loss due to wear and tear might not exceed 20 per cent of its value. November 21. Interest rates on nonresident accounts were increased. December 1. With effect from December 3, 1979 and valid until June 30, 1980, the following measures were introduced to curb imports: (1) banks might not finance imports using goods as collateral except in the cases of mass consumption foodstuffs, basic raw mate- rials, and fixed asset equipment for agriculture, fisheries, m in ing enterprises, industry, and handicrafts; (2) importers would be required to make an additional advance deposit equal to 75 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imported goods which would remain blocked with the Bank of Greece for six months; the deposit was to be made at the time when the irrevocable letter of credit was being established and would carry no interest (92 import items were exempted from this requirement); ( 3) an additional 25 per cent consumption tax was imposed on the value of some imported luxury commod- ities and other goods not considered vital for production purposes; (4) maximum profit limits were imposed on traders handling both imported and locally produced goods, 33 per cent for wholesalers, and 100 per cent for retailers; and (5) the first repayment on suppliers' credit would have to be made within six months. December 5. Law No. 936/79 streamlined adminis- trative control over foreign trade matters. Issues affect- ing foreign currency and protection of domestic produc- tion were brought under the jurisdiction of the Bank of Greece. The Committee for Regulating Matters Con- cerning Imports was established at the Bank of Greece to assume responsibilities hitherto borne by the Minister of Trade, including authority to (1) extend deadlines for shipment and arrival of imports; (2) extend dead- lines for settlement of payments for imports; (3) grant exemption from the advance deposit requirements; (4) authorize means of payments other than those in normal practice; and (5) authorize imports for commercial use without observance of currency formalities. December 22. Trade sanctions against Rhodesia were revoked. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Grenada is the East Caribbean Dol- lar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A 5 per cent exchange tax is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is admin- istered by the Minister of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the author- ity to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions with Rhodesia or South Africa. Trade controls also are administered by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in East Caribbean dollars to and from External Accounts. Settlements with residents of coun- tries outside the former Sterling Area other than Rho- desia may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. These accounts are main- tained in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank inter- est (payable on External Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to residents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign 1The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Ea 't Caribbean dollar. exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license from all other countries. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warran ts) to the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry; however, the Ministry has delegated to authorized dealers powers to approve the payment of imports originating in CARICOM countries. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Imports not exempt f rom customs duty are subject to a stamp tax of 7.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for a few types of payments. These include foreign travel ( for which up to EC$3,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$7,000 a person for business trave l), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and life insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation normally are approved by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry, provided that no unau- thorized t rans fer of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tour ism in excess of EC$3,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. There are certain arrears on payments for invisibles. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 and East Caribbean currency notes without limit. Nonresident travelers may freely export any foreign currency pre- viously brought in, as well as any amount in East Carib- bean currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of cer- tain goods to any destination. There are no formal regu- lations to ensure that export proceeds in foreign cur- rencies are surrendered within a certain period from the 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on bananas, cocoa, and nutmeg. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin in East Caribbean currency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to non- residents, require exchange control approval, which nor- mally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain allowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration pur- poses. The Minister of Finance, Trade, and Industry will also consider transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceed- ing to take up permanent residence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that any liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Nonresidents may acquire in Grenada real estate for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The approval of the Ministry is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short- term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The export of gold is not normally permitted. Changes during 1979 March 15. The authority of commercial banks to approve import and other outward payments was sus- pended. The approval authority was restored on July 6. 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quet- zal, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Q 1 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are Q 1.00 and Q 1.01, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On January 27, 1947 Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, but all inward and outward transfers are recorded for statistical purposes by the Bank of Guatemala. Foreign exchange trans- actions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala and those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of authorized banks appointed by the Monetary Board. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments between Guatemala and Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua are nor- mally made in the currency of the country concerned through the Central American Clearing House. There are no obligations prescribing the currency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, cacao, butter, vegetable oil, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, and a few other goods. Imports of coffee beans, coffee plants, and tallow are prohibited from all sources. Imports from Honduras are regu- lated by a bilateral trade agreement. Payments for per- mitted imports may be made freely and in any currency. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Guatemala grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent of the applicable import duty. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for and pro- ceeds from invisibles. All international air passages are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. Residents and nonresi- dents may freely bring in or take out any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes and other means of payment. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a number of items. Exports of a few other items are prohibited^, including the export of gold and silver in any form (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license). Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coin that is legal tender in foreign countries. The pro- ceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or non- residents. All investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1979 May 3. The Law of the Free Trade Zone exempted from import duties and some taxes all raw materials, intermediate goods, and spare parts used by firms in the free trade zone at Santo Tomas de Castilla. June 12. The bill revising the Law of Drawbacks was passed, which temporarily suspended import duties on raw materials and intermediate goods to be used in the production of exports. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Guinea is the Gu inean Syli, which is pegged to the SDR at GS 24.6853 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for 14 currencies1 quoted by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea are determined on the basis of the value of the syli in terms of the SDR and the trans- action value of these currencies in terms of the SDR. Exchange rates for the CFA franc and the Mali franc result from the relationship between these currencies and the French franc. Exchange rates for other currencies2 are determined in accordance with the appropriate cross rates in international markets. Transactions under the bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. are set- tled in U.S. dollars at the rate of GS 20.46 per US$1, and in respect of the bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China, in renminbi at the rate of GS 10.030 per renminbi 1. A single exchange rate for the U.S. dollar applies to transfer operations. On December 31, 1979 it was GS 18.763 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for banknotes were GS 17.25 and GS 20.65, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, which is under the direct supervision of the Presidency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Central Exchange Bureau of the Central Bank. Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export licenses are issued by IMPORTEX, a state enterprise, within the framework of annual import and export programs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.3 Current payments to or from the Central Bank of West African States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements w i th other countries are made in designated "con- vertible" currencies quoted by the Central Bank. 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Principally the Saudi Arabian riyal. 3 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with People's Republic of China and U.S.S.R. The agreements with Algeria, Cub*», Lebanon, and Viet Nam are regarded as inoperative. 178 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Non- resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Sylis. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Exchange Bureau. Imports and import Payments All imports, other than those under the Five-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by IMPORTEX within the framework of the annual import program. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Central Exchange Bureau. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. The annual import program takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain imports are effected outside the import pro- gram. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea (e.g., imports made by two "mixed-economy companies" —the Friguia Company and the Guinea Bauxite Company —and by foreign embassies), goods for the Five-Year Plan, and imports effected by author- ized traders. All commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the "mixed-economy com- panies." Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Central Exchange Bureau, irrespective of the country to which the payment is to be made, unless financed from retained export proceeds (see below). Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tour- ist or business travel; each application is considered individually. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GS 600 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GS 16,351 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GS 22,000 to pay for fares. In cases of serious illness, where a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are per- mitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual author- ization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support may be made up to monthly amounts determined on the merits of the case. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For officially recognized study abroad, the allocation is the equivalent of the amount of a government scholar- ship, i.e., GS 2,500 a month. Students beginning their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually per- mitted depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries and those employed by the private sector are permitted to transfer Up to 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds IMPORTEX establishes an annual export program for all exports except those of the "mixed-economy com- panies." All exports require individual licenses in order to (1) assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) permit the Treasury to levy cer- tain duties (e.g., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the volume of bauxite and alumina exported); (3) prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) prevent the export of capital. Special authorization f rom designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the following commodities: wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of historic or ethno- graphic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds immediately after they are collected. Other than those effected by the "mixed-economy companies," most exports are made by three state export- ing enterprises, PROMINEX, PROSECO, and FRUTEX, which are subsidiaries of a holding company, SECOMEX. For- eign planters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported, and private traders may also be per- mitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The "mixed-economy companies" are allowed to retain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating require- ments, and to service their external debt. All other export proceeds must be surrendered. GUINEA Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, sub- ject to declaration on entry, but both must in principle be surrendered w i th in 24 hours after entry. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, after deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction may not be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Gu inean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law of April 5, 1962 pro- vides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and m in ing sectors. It also provides for preferen t ial tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the t rans fer of profits, interest, amortization, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds of such investments. Small and medium-sized enter- prises in which at least GS 15 m i l l ion is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the economy. The actual conditions under wh ich foreign investments may be made are sub- ject to negotiations w i th in the terms of the Investment Law. Gold Gu inea has issued four commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic pur- poses. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Changes during 1979 February 9. The Central Exchange Bureau was estab- lished by Decree No. 62 to replace the former Exchange Control Office. November 13. A Foreign Debt Bureau was estab- lished by Decree No. 501. It would be responsible for the collation of data on the balance of payments and supervision of import and export licensing. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea-Bissau Peso which is pegged to the SDR at PG 44 = SDR 1. The authorities ma in ta in the rate for the Guinea-Bissau peso within margins of 2.25 per cent from the fixed relationship between the peso and the SDR, i.e., between max imum and minimum rates of PG 44.99 and PG 43.01 respectively, per SDR 1. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed within limits of 1.8 per cent of the SDR rates for these currencies. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates of the Na t ional Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the central b ank) for the U.S. dollar were PG 33.124 and PG 33.776, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Foreign Exchange Department of the central bank. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Residents must declare to the cen- tral bank all their physical assets and fore ign exchange holdings abroad. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all foreign countries must be made in foreign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in which export earnings shall be received. Quinea-Bissau ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements with Algeria and Cape Verde. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Liberia, Mali, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are norma l ly made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to prior licensing. In principle, licenses are issued by the State Commissariat of Com- merce, Indus try, and Hand icraf ts on the basis of a mon th ly ceiling fixed by the central bank and are valid for the period of the import transaction. Licenses gran ted have to be presented to the central bank w i th in 15 days. Only importers registered w i th the State Com- missariat of Commerce, Industry, and Handicrafts may receive licenses. Each license specifies the quantity and va lue (c.i.f. and f.o.b.) of the product imported and a separate license is required for each product. Licenses for project-related imports financed by foreign loans or gran ts are granted automatically. Import licenses are norma l ly provided within 8 to 15 days of a documented request. Imports of essential foodstuffs, such as rice and sugar, are state monopolies. 180 Since November 1977, the system of import licenses has been suspended and only those import operations considered urgent or essential are permitted. There are some arrears of payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Committee of Foreign Exchange Control. For- eign exchange allocations for many payments for invis- ibles, including those for tourism and for the purchase of stocks, bonds, real estate, and profit remittances, have been temporarily suspended. Transfers of pension pay- men ts are authorized in accordance with specific cri- teria. Transfers of profits have been suspended and will be permitted only a f ter the Investment Code, now in prepara t ion, has been finalized and approved. Although no fore ign exchange may be purchased for tourism, air- p lane tickets can be bought using domestic currency. Moreover, purchases of Cape Verde escudos for pur- poses of tourism in that country are permitted up to the equivalent of PG 10,000 a person. Airline companies may t ran s fer in foreign exchange the difference between the ir paymen ts and receipts in Guinea-Bissau pesos. These t ran s fe rs are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are l im i ted to PG 15,000 a trip. For study abroad foreign exchange is granted up to PG 6,000 in the first month and PG 3,500 in each of the following months (PG 5,000 for students enrolled in middle-level and higher-level courses). Allowances for travel for health reasons are permitted up to PG 20,000. Remittances to close relatives (paren ts and children) living abroad are perm i t ted up to PG 2,500 a month. Foreign travelers may take out any rema in ing foreign currency declared upon en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only exporters registered with the State Commissariat of Commerce, Industry, and Hand icraf ts may obtain export licenses, which are gran ted automatically in most cases. Exports of g roundnu ts are reserved for the Government and are effected by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMI. Other products exported only by the Govern- ment include palm kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, fish, beer, soft drinks, g roundnut oil, and parquet flooring. All exports are subject to a general fee of 1 per cent. Most exports are also subject to export taxes, which range f rom 3 per cent for firewood to 15 per cent for crocodile hides, w i th most products in the 9-10 per cent range. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency. Foreign airline companies must cover the excess of their expenditures over revenues in Guinea-Bissau pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinea-Bissau pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts and payments. Capital transfers associated with emigra- tion are authorized by the "transitory norms" within a monthly limit of PG 50,000 and up to 20 per cent of total taxable income earned during no more than ten years. At present, however, such transfers are suspended. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, except when authorized by the Chief State Commissar and the State Commissar for Finance. Changes during 1979 May 29. A new customs tariff schedule, introducing wide-ranging increases in import duties, came into effect. June 7. The authorization of foreign exchange for imports of vehicles and spare parts was suspended. In exceptional cases, authorization would be granted directly by the President of the Council of State or by the Prin- cipal Commissar of the Council of Commissars of State. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of G u y a na is the G u y a na Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. do l la r, the in te rven t ion currency, at G$2.55 = US$1. On December 31, 1979 the off ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar were G$2.5484 and G$2.5612, respectively, per US$1. Buy- ing and se l l ing rates for cer ta in other currenc ies1 are also o f f ic ia l ly quoted, w i th da i ly quo ta t ions based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in marke ts abroad. The Bank of Guyana ( the central b a n k) charges commissions at d i f f e r ent rates on the purchase and sale of the o f f ic ia l ly quoted currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Guyana fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the M in i s ter of F inance who has entrusted its adm in i s t r a t ion to the Bank of Guyana. Au tho r i ty for app rov ing cu r rent pay- ments up to specified amounts is delegated to the banks au thor ized for this purpose; a ll other impo rt paymen ts and cer ta in paymen ts in respect of c u r r e nt inv is ib les of a personal na tu re require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. The M i n i s t ry of Trade is responsible for issu- ing import and export licenses, but impo rt licenses requ i re the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all coun tr ies, and all cur- rencies other than the Guyana do l lar are considered foreign currencies. Au tho r ized paymen ts, i n c l u d i ng pay- ments for impor ts, by residents of Guyana to residents of coun tr ies outside Guy ana may be made in any fo re ign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an Exter- nal Account in Guyana. Receipts f rom coun tr ies out- side Guy ana may be obtained in any fo r e ign cu r rency ( in any listed specified cu r rency2 for export proceeds) or in Guyana do l la rs f rom an Ex ternal Accoun t. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guy an a: External Accoun ts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, w i th exchange control approval, for persons resident in any coun t ry outside Guyana, except Rhodesia. They may be credited f ree ly w i th all authorized paymen ts by residents of 1 Barbados dollars, Canad ian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, and T r i n i d ad and Tobago dollars. 2 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, No rweg ian k rone r, Por tuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f r an c s, and U.S. dollars. 182 Guyana to nonresidents and w i th transfers from other E x t e r n al Accoun ts; other credits requ i re approva l. They may be debited f ree ly for paymen ts for any purpose to res iden ts of any coun t ry, for t rans fe rs to other Ex ternal Accoun ts, and for w i thd rawa ls by the account holder w h i le he is in Guy an a; other debits requ i re approval. Blocked Accounts may, in p r inc ip le, be credited with f u n ds that are not placed at the free disposal of non- res iden ts (e.g., certain cap i tal proceeds); these accounts may be debited for ce r ta in au thor ized payments, inc lud- ing the purchase of approved securities. Since m id-1978 Blocked Accoun ts have been used to hold domestic cur- rency deposits equ iva lent in va lue to pend ing applica- t i o ns for fo re ign exchange. Such deposits carry a mar- ke t-re la ted in terest rate but no exchange rate guarantee. Imports and Import Payments A ll impo r ts f rom Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro- h ib i ted. Imports of ce r ta in commodities are prohibited f r om a ll sources; for some goods, however, the proh ib i- t i on is not en fo rced, w h i le others are subject to quotas, if they q u a l i fy for du ty - f ree access ( u n d er the rules of o r ig in app l icab le to impor ts f rom countries of the Carib- bean Common M a r k e t —CAR ICOM ) /* A ll permissible im p o r ts (except parcel post i tems and trade samples up to a spec i f ied v a l u e ), irrespec t ive of o r i g i n, are subject to i n d i v i d u al l icens ing. The g r a n t i ng of ind iv idu al licenses and the cond i t ions attached thereto depend on c u r r e nt po l icy; some goods are subject to quo ta wh i le o thers are licensed f ree ly. Impo rt licenses for commod- i t i es o r i g i n a t i ng in A l b a n i a, Bu lga r ia, the People's R epub l ic of C h i n a, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Demo- c r a t ic R epub l i c, H u n g a r y, No r th Korea, Poland, R om a n i a, and the U.S.S.R. are gene ra l ly gran ted freely, but such impo r ts must be effected through public sector co rpo ra t ion s. Pub l ic sector corpora t ions have a mon- opo ly over the im p o rt of specified commod i t ies f r om a ll sources. C e r t a in goods, p r im a r i ly paper produc ts, such as books and newsp r in t, may be impo r ted on ly through the G u y a na N a t i o n al T rad ing Co rpo ra t ion, w h i le phar- maceu t ica l s, o ther drugs, and surgical in s t rum en ts may be impo r ted on ly th rough the Guyana Pharmaceu t ical Co rpo ra t ion. Ce r ta in food s tu f fs may be impor ted only by the Guy ana Ma rke t ing Corporation, e.g., those that f a ll und er the ag r i cu l tu r al m a rk e t ing protocol of the CAR I F TA /CAR ICOM Agreement. Paymen ts for authorized impo r ts are generally per- m i t ted upon application and submission of documen- ta ry evidence, subject to the ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange. There has been some accumulation of com- mercial arrears. :>> The CAR ICOM coun t r ies are An t igu a, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, G renada, G u y a n a, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts-Nev is-Angu i l la, St. Lucia, St. V incen t, and T r in idad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all coun tr ies require approval, wh ich, except for tour ist trave l, is u sua l ly given freely, provided that no illegal capital t ran s fer is invo lved but there has been some accumu la t ion of arrears. The basic annual exchange allocation for tour- ist travel is C$200 a person and is not cumu la t ive. Standard allocations are applied to cer ta in payments of a personal na tu re on an annu al basis, e.g., for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each c h i l d ), for educa- tion at universities and comparable ins t i tu t ions (G$4,800 for each s tuden t ), and for f am i ly ma in tenance (G$4,800 for each f am i l y ). Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$10 a person. Persons traveling abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$40; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, foreign currency notes up to the value of G$50 may be taken out without permission as part of any travel exchange allowance; any amount in excess of this is subject to approval by the Bank of Guyana. Nonresi- dent travelers may, w i th in one mon th of their last entry, freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Rice may be exported only by the Guyana Rice Board, sugar only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation, and bauxite and a lum ina only by the Guyana M in ing Enterprise Limited. Certain other exports also are chan- neled through official agencies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 2 ), surrendered. Exchange control fo rms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$200 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 2) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign banknotes; domestic banknotes up to a value of G$40 may be brought in by returning travelers only. Capital Foreign investors must apply to the Bank of Guyana for "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; "approved status" assures that GUYANA p ro f i ts may be remitted, and that upon liquidation of the inves tmen t, the proceeds, inc lud ing any capital incre- men ts a f ter payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in f u ll in the currency of the original investment. For the t ime being, however, foreign-based companies (other than those based in the CARICOM area) and their sub- s id iar ies are prohibited f rom borrowing in Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally perm i t ted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 2) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other cur- rencies may be retained by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese na t iona l i ty may not transfer abroad any part of the ir capital assets other than a settling-in allowance of G$100 for each member of a fam i ly un i t; emigrants of foreign na t iona l i ty may export all declared capital assets, an amount of G$24,000 a fam i ly unit at the time of em ig ra t ion and G$17,300 in each successive calendar year. Borrowing f rom nonresidents requires exchange con- trol approval. However, publicly owned enterprises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the f inanc ing of spe- cific projects and in some instances for working capital purposes. Since mid-1979 any borrowing by a public sector corporation is subject to prior approval by the Government Debt Committee. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for num isma t ic purposes, and also jewelry. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, without special permis- sion. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any other official ins t i tu t ion purchases gold to supply domestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, pro- ducers of gold and industrial users, require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out with them jewelry up to a va lue of C$600, C$400, and G$200, for women, men, and ch i ld ren under 12 years of age, respectively. Changes during 1979 April 18. A basic exchange allocation for tourist travel of G$200 a person a year was reintroduced. Unused portions of the allocation might not be carried over to fu tu re years. November 24. Travelers were permitted to take abroad or bring in G$40 in Guyana currency notes. The former l im it had been G$15. December 31. The External Trade Bureau was abol- ished and its func t ions were taken over by the Guyana Na t ional Trading Corporation. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at G5 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are G5 per US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Haiti. Purchases or sales of foreign exchange are subject to a local tax of 0.20 per cent. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies with daily quo- tations based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and there are no obliga- tions prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. The administration of the for- eign exchange system is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank) and exchange transactions are implemented by that Bank and certain commercial banks. imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for certain foodstuffs, certain fqptwear, cotton textiles, paints, and iron rods. The importation of used cars is subject to the require- ment that the vehicle is at most five years old and has been owned by the importer for a minimum of two years. Imports from member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance require prior authori- zation by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Ministry's prior authorization is also required for imports from any source of certain types of footwear and of L few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. The domestic mar- keting of certain imports is controlled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. Certain imports are subject to sur- charges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value, in addi- tion to the applicable import duty; goods subject to the 4 or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an additional tax of 2 per cent. Importers pay an "economic liberation tax" on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of coffee require prior authorization from the Haitian Coffee Institute. All other exports require authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Export authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Exports of essential oils are regulated by the Marketing Office for Essential Oils. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Exporters must pay 184 an "economic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds from invisibles. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on tickets and must buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplo- mats and staff members of international organizations are exempt. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permitted but imports may be made freely. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires prior government approval. Permission is not normally granted to nonresidents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a mini- mum of 85 per cent of their liabilities to local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coin, mineral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require in addition prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, while imports for industrial use require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Finance, as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles con- taining a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1979 June 6. The licensing requirement for imports of automobiles was eliminated. September 11. The National Bank of the Republic of Haiti was replaced by two independent financial institutions, the Bank of the Republic of Haiti, the cen- tral bank, and the National Bank of Credit, a state- owned commercial bank. A six-month transition period was allowed from the date of the partition. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lempira, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at L 2 = US$1. The official buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar are L 2.00 and L 2.02, respectively, per US$1. Banknotes in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates with a 1 per cent commission and are sold at par i ty rates. The buying and selling rates for other currencies that are of significance to the foreign trade of Honduras are fixed daily on the basis of the buy ing and selling rates of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Pay- ments to the other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM)1 in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Central American Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Pay- ments and transfers abroad may be made freely; how- ever, for statistical purposes, buyers of foreign exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Certain essential imports (List 1) require prior approval from the Central Bank of Hon- duras when they are to be made on credit terms. Cer- tain nonessential imports (List 2) also are subject to Central Bank approval; the use of external credit to pay for these goods is prohibited. Imports of goods not appearing on either list do not require Central Bank approval, provided that payment is on sight terms. The import of corn, rice, sorghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the Honduran Institute of Agr icu l tural Marketing. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Honduras grants du ty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports from countries outside the CACM are subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Some goods are subject to a customs surtax of 12 per cent of the duty and to a consular charge of 8 per cent of the f .o.b. value. There is a du ty free zone in Puerto Cortes. 1 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold and sugar do not require licenses but must be registered. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute and ex- ports of bananas by the Honduran Banana Corporation. The export of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes is controlled by the Hondu ran Institute of Agricul- tu ral Marketing, and lumber exports are channeled through the Hondu ran Forest Development Corporation (COHDEFOR ). The proceeds of exports must be repatri- ated to Honduras; those wishing to negotiate their foreign exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Cen tral Bank or through the bank ing system for account of the Central Bank. There is an export tax on cattle, meat, and sugar and a general export duty of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value of all other export items except bananas, coffee, and minerals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles and proceeds f rom invisibles may be retained. The import and export of domestic and foreign banknotes by travelers are permitted freely. Capital Capital paymen ts are not subject to exchange con- trol. However, the authorization of the Minister of Finance is required for all activities implying the receipt of resources and their transfer abroad for purposes of investment in mu tual funds, housing developments, real estate, or s im i lar activities. Foreign mu tual funds and s im i lar financial ins t i tu t ions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the M in is try of Finance, the Council of Economic P lann ing, and the Central Bank is required for the public sector to contract any foreign indebted- ness, whether for import financing or for other pur- poses. The contracting of external debt by the private sector requires approval by the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- duras for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry requ i re licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the fo rm of ore for re f in ing. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 per cent. Changes during 1979 September 3. The Central Bank raised from 40 per cent to 45 per cent the commercial banks' reserve requirements on foreign liabilities of all maturities. Net use by the public sector of foreign liabilities with ma- turities of less than ten years was limited to a maximum of US$25 million during the six-month period ended December 31, 1979. December 26. As part of a general tax reform some import and export taxes were instituted or increased. Import taxes on alcoholic beverages were raised to an average of L 3.25 a liter and taxes on cigarettes were raised to the equivalent of 65 per cent of their c.i.f. value. Taxes of L 40 a head on exports of live cattle and of L 0.035 a pound on frozen meat were imposed. In addition, taxes were imposed on the production and consumption of beer and carbonated water. An export tax was imposed on cattle, meat, and sugar, and a gen- eral export du ty of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value was imposed on all other export items except bananas, coffee, and minerals. 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions in Hong Kong, and exchange rates for the Hong Kong dollar are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The authorities intervene only when necessary in order to smooth out exceptional fluctuations in exchange rates so as to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1979 the buy- ing and selling rates in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were HK$4.9240 and HK$4.9260, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Director of Trade, Industry and Customs. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and non- residents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresi- dent accounts. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain dutiable commodities and items that are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons, imports are free from licensing control. However, all goods originating in or consigned from Rhodesia are sub- ject to import licensing control.2 With a few exceptions 1Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 2 Since the lifting of sanctions against Rhodesia on January IS, 1980, applications for licenses are freely approved. a trade declaration must be lodged with the Department of Trade, Industry and Customs within 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported to or exported from Hong Kong. The import of rice is subject to a quota system operated by that Department. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only to enable Hong Kong to fu lf i ll its international obligations and for health, safety, or security reasons. Textiles are also sub- ject to licensing, partly because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified countries under whidh the export of certain textiles is restricted. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes, travelers checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Resi- dents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona. There is no organized fore ign exchange ma rket in Iceland and official buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar, the pr inc ipal t rad ing and reserve cu r rency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are ad jus ted from time to t ime; on December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates were IKr 394.40 and IKr 395.40, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currenc ies1 are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in in te rna t ional markets. The authorized banks are pe rm i t ted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange except for a temporary tax of 10 per cent levied on fore ign exchange sold to residents for tourist travel, which has been extended to December 31, 1980. Administration of Control The M in is try of Commerce, a f ter consu l t ing w i th the Central Bank, has the u l t ima te responsibility for matters concerning import and export l icens ing and payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of ex- change control, including capital controls; it is also responsible for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. Two com- mercial banks, the Na t ional Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only authorized banks. The authorized banks issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the M in is try of Commerce. Prescription of Currency As a general rule, exchange receipts must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the Dollar Area and w i th many other coun- tries are made in U.S. dollars; with countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with certain other countries, in their re- spective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonres ident krona ac- counts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires individual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds frcn: the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norweg ian k rone r, Po r tu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 188 and w i th authorized paymen ts due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used f ree ly for payments to residents and may w i thout a license be converted in to the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, paymen ts for international t ransac t ions genera l ly be ing made in U.S. dollars, s ter l ing, or other convertible currencies.2 Special Accounts in k ronur or fore ign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most impo r tant of these accounts are those of foreign banks and fore ign insurance companies. They may be credited free ly, up to certain limits, with approved paymen ts f rom residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not inc luded in the restricted list may be imported freely without an import license from any coun try; some 90 per cent of total imports are liberal- ized. Some 30 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and may be subject to quantitative restriction. Some of these commodities are adm i t ted, subject to ind iv idual license, under global quotas. The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted on the basis of ind iv idual licenses issued on a discretionary basis ("other licensing"). The principal i tems involved are petroleum products; the only other indus t r ial goods on the list are brooms and brushes. Certain imports, in c lud ing fer t i l izers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages, are admitted only under state t rad ing arrangements. Fresh vegetables and potatoes are imported under the auspices of the Agricultural Production Board. None of these commodities, how- ever, is subject to quantitative restriction. For imports from all sources, when requiring a license, a fee of 1 per cent (m in imum IKr 100) is charged as a license fee on the krona amount of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, however, this fee is 0.1 per cent. The com- mercial banks require certain deposits for purposes of security in connection w i th certain import transactions. An advance deposit is required for imports of fu rn i tu re and certain other wood manufactures. The deposit amoun ts to 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the prod- ucts and is collected by the commercial bank on the basis of the foreign exchange purchased for payment of the goods. The deposits are held for 90 days in a blocked account with the Central Bank and earn interest at a rate equal to that paid on savings deposits. The scheme is due to expire on December 31, 1980. a Residents who hold foreign currency which they are not re- qu i red to sell to au thor ized dealers may open Foreign Accounts w i th Icelandic banks. Such accounts, denominated in Danish kroner, deu tsche m a rk, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, may be credited w i th au thor ized receipts in foreign currencies and may be debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to ob ta in a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. However, the goods w i ll not be cleared by the customs unless payment has a lready been made, or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy fore ign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require an ind iv idual license, foreign exchange is granted in accordance w i th the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may free ly accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 mon ths from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to some 55 per cent of 1970 imports; the goods not listed are ma in ly build- ing materials and nonessential goods (including motor vehicles for personal use ). Credit in excess of 3 mon ths and not exceeding 12 months requires permission by an authorized bank and the Ministry of Commerce. Approval is given only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy. Foreign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to government authorization. Imports of motor vehicles and motorcycles are sub- ject to an import surcharge of 50 per cent ad valorem; the surcharge is 25 per cent for a limited number of taxicabs. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, tractors, and public service vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whether imported or of domestic origin, are subject to a temporary excise tax of 24 per cent and 30 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, paymen ts to in ter- national organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for b ank ing commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed free ly on the basis of bona fide documents. There is an exchange license fee of 1.75 per cent for the provision of tourist exchange; for other paymen ts for invisibles the license fee is 1 per cent. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 290,000 a person for one tr ip a year ( IKr 145,000 for ch i ld ren ); if a second t r ip is made in the same calendar year, a fu r ther amount of IKr 290,000 may be used to purchase foreign exchange. A temporary exchange tax of 10 per cent is levied on exchange provided for tourist travel. Applications for exchange for ma jor repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and a ircraf t, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and in- surance operations abroad are considered on their merits. The chartering of fore ign ships usually is not allowed ICELAND when Ice land ic vessels are available for charter on no rmal terms. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out IKr 30,000 in Icelandic bankno tes and coin, in denom- i n a t i o ns not exceeding IKr 1,000. Nonresident travelers may re-export any fo re ign exchange they brought in at the t ime of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The shipping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. Exchange receipts accruing f rom exports must be sur- rendered without undue delay. All fish products are subject to export levies, which are re tu rned to the fish- ing indu s t ry through special funds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from inv is ib les must be surrendered w i thout u n d ue delay. The owners of Ice land ic ships and a ircraft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to re ta in the ir fo re ign exchange re- ceipts f rom fre igh t, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for opera t ing purposes and for pur- chases of necessities. Icelandic insurance companies which re insure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from p rem iums and indemn i t ies and to use it to pay re insu rance p rem iums, c la ims, and other regular expend i tu res in the coun try where the fore ign exchange was earned. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in IKr 30,000 in Icelandic bankno tes and coin, in denom- ina t ions not exceeding IKr 1,000. There are no lim- itations on the import of foreign banknotes and coin. Capital All inves tmen ts by nonres iden ts in Iceland are subject to ind iv idu al approval. The pa r t ic ipa t ion by nonresidents in Iceland's j o i nt stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not allowed in the fishing indus try. Nonres iden t-owned foreign capital en te r ing in the fo rm of fore ign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these f u n d s, in which case their re t ran s fer abroad may be perm i t ted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accru ing to them on account of capital transac t ions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, inc lud ing loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved on ly in excep- tional circumstances. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. However, direct investment abroad for the purpose of assisting the ma rke t ing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND prohibited. Outward t rans fe rs of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on their merits and are restricted. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported fund s; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from their sale requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents require Central Bank approval. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of IKr 10,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. How- ever, citizens returning to Iceland a f ter residing abroad may freely br ing in any gold in their possession. Changes during 1979 January 1. A reduction in tar iffs took effect according to the terms of Iceland's agreements with the EC and the EFTA. January 8. A temporary import deposit scheme was introduced, applying to imports of fu rn i tu re and certain other wood manufactures and to be in effect through December 31, 1980. A deposit amounting to 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the products was required. January 25. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased to IKr 215,000 a person for the second trip to be made in a calendar year. July 2. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased to IKr 250,000. September 6. The amount that resident and non- resident travelers may bring into or take out of Iceland in Icelandic banknotes and coin, in denominations not exceeding IKr 1,000, was raised from IKr 20,000 to IKr 30,000. September 11. The special temporary excise tax was raised from 16 per cent to 24 per cent. October 4. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased to IKr 290,000. December 12. Imports of pastry, biscuits, cakes, and other fine bakers' wares were liberalized. December 19. The margin between the Central Bank's official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar was widened from IKr 0.80 to IKr 1.00. December 28. The temporary tax of 10 per cent on tourist travel abroad was extended until December 31, 1980. 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Exchange rates are computed from the va lue of the rupee, which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of currencies of India's major trading partners. India maintains the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies within margins of 5 per cent of the value adopted as the basis. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Reserve Bank; at the end of December 1979 they were Rs 17.75 buy ing and Rs 17.85 selling, per <£ stg. 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f rom the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Indian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase Asian monetary units, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward, and to sell spot Asian monetary units and pounds ster- ling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to maintain balances and positions in "permitted currencies." Permitted cur- rencies are divided into two groups, Group A consisting of 20 listed currenciesl and Group B consisting of any other foreign currency that is convertible into any of the permitted currencies in fairly active markets. Authorized dealers are permitted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency from and to banks in any cur- rency outside the Bilateral Group.2 Authorized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell forward any per- mitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward purchase or sale of foreign currencies against rupees with foreign banks is prohibited. On Decem- ber 28, 1979 market rates for telegraphic transfers on New Yoik were US$12.60 buying (clean) and US$12.41 selling, per Rs 100, and the Reserve Bank's rates were US$12.6475 buying spot and US$12.6600, US$12.6575, US$12.6525, US$12.6450, US$12.6425, and US$12.6375 buying forward ( for 1 ,2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months' delivery, respectively), per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to author- ized dealers by purchases of sterling for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, etc., up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 mon ths ), for purchases of U.S. dollars up to 12 months, and of deutsche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, and so 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahra in dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. on, up to the sixth month. In addition, the Bank offers forward cover in these four currencies in respect of exports of specified capital and producer goods, for periods up to ten years from the date of conclusion of the export contract. The Bank also purchases Asian monetary units from authorized dealers, for 3, 6, and 9 months' delivery (extendable up to 12 months in a l l). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Governmen t, in consultation with the Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized deal- ers. All proposals for direct investments in India, with or without equity participation, are reviewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of com- mercial, industrial, and trad ing activities in India of companies incorporated abroad, or with more than 40 per cent nonresident interest, or for the establish- ment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of business for carrying out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Chief Con- troller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided in to two groups: the Bilateral Group of coun- t r ie s2 and the External Group of countries (all other coun t r ies ). Payments to and from the Bilateral Group of coun tr ies must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate c lear ing account. Payments to the External G roup of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or in any permitted currency.3'4 Receipts from the Exter- nal Account Group of countries may be obtained in rupees f rom the account of a bank situated in any coun- try in the group or in any permitted currency. How- ever, special rules may be applicable in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Govern- ment of India to the governments of certain foreign 3 All remittances by nationals of the People's Republic of China to any coun try outside India and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or t rade purposes, were stopped with effect f rom November 3, 1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and the People's Republic of China, remittances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in conform i ty with exchange control regulations. All nontrade-related transactions with the People's Republic of China or nationals of the People's Republic of China continue to be prohibited. Authorized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers as in the case of imports from other countries; they also may effect certain types of personal remittances in accordance with regulations applicable to such remittances; remittances for other purposes require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. 4 The prior approval of the Reserve Bank was required for all remittances to Rhodesia un t il Janua ry 24, 1980 when sanctions were lifted. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA countries. In addition, payments to and receipts f rom member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Nepal (i.e., Bangladesh, Burma, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tural gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in As ian monetary un i ts through the As ian Clearing Union. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Ind ians (w i th the exception of certain accounts held by persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty who are or have been nonresidents) and of Bhutanese and Nep- alese nationals resident in Bhu tan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhuta- nese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organiza- tions in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign coun- tries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts d is t ingu ishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, i.e., the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized trans- fers f rom the nonresident accounts of persons and firms ( inc lud ing bank s ), provided that both the transferor and the transferee accounts are of the same country or countries in the External Group, and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of Ind ia. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms ( inc lud ing bank s ), and transfers to Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of the same coun t ry or of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted into any permitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of ind iv idua ls or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds of foreign exchange tendered by the account holder dur ing a temporary visit to India; pro- ceeds f rom checks issued by the L ife Insurance Cor- poration in respect of maturity or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, pro- 5 However, residents of Nepal obtain requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. their fore ign exchange 192 vided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that ac tua r ial reserves were held in India; all legitimate dues acc ru ing in India to the account holder, such as pen- sions, provident fund s, gratuities, bonuses f rom a for- mer employer, income tax refunds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits dur- ing a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no ind iv idual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian national, credits on account of w i thdrawa ls or loans f rom, and ma tu r i ty proceeds of inves tmen ts in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, rentals f rom and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder, and ma tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds from the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in Ind ia and the repurchase price of un i ts issued by the Un it Trust of India are f r e e ly allowed. Ind ian emigrants may ma in ta in ordinary nonresident accounts, and an emigrant's assets in India that are in excess of the remittable amount must be credited to such accounts. Where the account holder is a fore ign na t iona l, authorized dealers may credit the sale and m a tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were o r ig ina l ly purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance f rom abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian or a foreign national, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were sold with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Ord inary nonresident accounts maintained by persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or origin who are resident abroad may be debited w i thout prior approval for such items as the account holder's and his fam i ly's expenses dur ing visits to Ind ia, up to Rs 3,000 a week; payments for all taxes due f rom the account holder in India; contribu- tions to the Na t ional Defence Fund, the Prime Minis- ter's Na t ional Relief Fund, or any government-spon- sored char i ty; allowances not exceeding Rs 2,000 a mon th to relatives and dependents in India; and author- ized fore ign currency remittances or transfers to non- resident bank accounts. The holder may draw a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annua l ly for any purpose during his stay in India. Such nonresident accounts may also be debited free ly for investment in the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, for payment of the passage fare for the account holder and his fam i ly and dependents for travel to and from Ind ia; for payment of prem iums on Life Insu rance Corporation policies of the account holder and his dependents; for investments in Ind ian Govern- ment securities, in un i ts of the Unit Trust of India, and in immovable property in India; and also for checks up to Rs 2,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries in India. Other credits and debits require the pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally per- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mitted from nonresident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. The special regulations cov- ering funds lodged in Na t ional Defence Remittance Scheme Special Accounts were abolished in Ap r il 1979 and such accounts are now treated as ord inary nonresi- dent accounts. If the balance on such an account is Rs 50,000 or less, w i thdrawa ls may be made freely to meet local payments. Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in Ind ia for persons of Ind ian nation- ality or origin resident outside India. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons d u r i ng tem- porary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency travelers checks, notes, or coin. They may be credited with new funds remitted through bank ing channels from the coun try of residence of the account holder or f rom any country in the External Group. They may also be credited w i th the proceeds of foreign currency travelers checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coin tendered by the account holder du r ing his stay in India, and also with income on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts or Foreign Cur- rency (Nonresident) Accounts of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disbursements in India and for transfer abroad. Debits on account of payment of passage or fares to and from India for the account holder and his depen- dents, for investment in government securities and un i ts of the Unit Trust of India, and transfers to other Non- resident (Ex te rna l) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee travelers checks or travelers letters of credit for the use of the account holder and his family and dependents, but transfers of funds from an individual account to a similar account of another person is ordinarily not permissible. Investments in the shares of Ind ian com- panies or in partnership firms, etc., or in immovable property can be made with the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and is transferable. The bal- ances held in such accounts are exempt from wealth tax. Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts denom- inated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nation- ality or origin who are resident in the External Group of countries. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal bank ing channels, including interest, which is free of income tax and wealth tax. Balances may be repatriated at any time in the currency of denomination, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the pur- INDIA poses for which debits Accounts are allowed. to Nonresident (External) Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Government to prohibit, restrict, or otherwise control imports. Under this Act, the Imports (Con tro l) Order, 1955 was issued, which speci- fied items subject to controls. Imports from Namibia (South West A f r i c a ), Rhodesia (see footnote 4), and South A f r ica are prohibited. There are three types of ind iv idu al license, General Currency Area Licenses, Specific Licenses (used for capital goods and other sup- lies against tied a i d ), and Single Country Licenses (used for ce r ta in imports f rom countries with which bilateral trade or paymen ts agreements are in fo rce ). The Import Policy for 1979-80, which came into effect on May 3, 1979, with its subsequent amendments, contains the regulations covering imports. Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for industry are classified in to three categories: (1) banned, (2) restricted, and (3) canalized. All items not included on these lists are freely available under Open General License (OGL ). Licenses to industry are issued auto- matically on the basis of annual requirements as deter- mined by past consumption. An actual user (industrial) holding an automatic license may import, up to a limit of 10 per cent of the value of the license, such "con- sumables" (i.e., items required for production but not part of the final product) as are needed for the manu- fac tu r ing process. The value of a single "consumable" item imported under this facility may not exceed Rs 50,000. The actual user (industrial) may also import, w i th in the value of the license, banned items up to a va lue of Rs 50,000 for each item, provided that the total of all items imported does not exceed 10 per cent of the va lue of the license. Supplementary licenses may be obtained in case of need, even for the import of banned items. All licenses to indus try are issued against free foreign exchange. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are banned, while other listed goods may be imported under Open Gen- eral License, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are granted subject to prescribed procedure. For 14 industries and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders irrespec- tive of whether the goods are manufactured in India or not. Registered exporters are permitted to obtain import replenishment (REP) licenses which are valid for impor- tation of banned items necessary for the production of the par t icu lar export product. In addition, REP licenses may be utilized for direct imports of canalized items to the extent the license permits, and also for imports of capital goods, subject to necessary clearances. The licenses are issued to merchant-exporters, manufacturer- exporters, and export houses and are freely transferable. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Small-scale un i ts are given especially l iberal trea tment in respect of import licenses, and consortia of small-scale indus tr ies may fo rm export houses. Non indu s t r i al actual users, such as research and deve lopment laboratories, sc ien t if ic or higher educa t ional ins t i tu t ions, and hos- pitals, are eligible to import their requ iremen ts of tech- nical and professional equ ipmen t, raw materials, com- ponents, spare parts, or other items (but not consumer goods) on Open General License. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presen- tation of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by r em i t t ing against sight draf ts. Advance remittances before ship- p ing documents can be submitted are not norma l ly allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of mach inery and capital goods where deposits have to be made w i th overseas manufac turers, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a pa rt of the value of the import. The import of certain commodities, inc lud ing food- grains, certain oils and fats, a number of pharmaceutical products, na tural rubber, raw cotton, raw ju te, cement, cashew nuts, most fertilizers, most nonferrous metals, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the Gov- ernment or state trad ing enterprises, the most impor tant of which are the State Trad ing Corporation (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, Sail International Ltd., the State Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Corporation of India (CPC), and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. Bu lk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, including the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Cen- ter ( IRMAC ). In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of 5, 15, or 20 per cent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are foodgrains, raw cotton, tallow, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, paymen ts abroad for invisibles requ ire approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign cur- rency to foreign nationals not permanently resident in India are to be paid only in foreign currency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment for recognized superannuation or pension fund s; Indian residents are prohibited f rom t ak ing out l ife insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, 194 companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve B ank. Remittances of dividends by Indian com- panies to the ir nonresident shareholders do not require p r ior Reserve Bank approval, provided that certain con- d i t ions are met. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to bene- ficiaries pe rmanen t ly resident outside Ind ia, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances of pensions and d iv idends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits to Ind i an na t iona ls who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after Janua ry 1, 1963 but before Ap r il 30, 1968 are subject to an overall l im it of Rs 20,000 a year. For emigrants granted lump sum exchange facilities a f ter Ap r il 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship, no remittance of income is allowed. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their business, profession, or employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and for other expenses. Author- ized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign na t iona ls, other than nationals of the People's Republic of Ch ina, Pakistan, Rhodesia (see footnote 4), and South A f r ica, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a max imum of Rs 2,500 a month. Requests for the remittance of larger amoun ts are considered on t h e ir mer i ts by the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, residents are permitted to travel abroad without "P" fo rm forma l i t ies to all destinations, provided they have not traveled abroad under this scheme since the begin- n ing of the previous calendar year. For determination of e l ig ib i l i ty, all foreign travel other than under the For- eign Travel Scheme is disregarded. Residents are entitled to fore ign exchange up to US$500 or its equivalent on a round - t r ip ticket, irrespective of the carrier by which they travel. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book passages under the For- eign Travel Scheme for persons holding eligibility certifi- cates issued by designated branches of public sector nationalized banks. Substantially the same facilities are available for travel to Mau r i t ius under the Mauritius Travel Scheme, and to Seychelles, except that the allowance is limited to US$100. The schemes mentioned above do not preclude access to other travel facilities (for purposes such as business travel or attendance at conferences or seminars, etc.). Authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange up to Rs 300 and Rs 400, respectively, to Indian nationals and persons of Ind ian origin resident in India for travel to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka once in a calendar year. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship com- panies may also book passages for persons going abroad w i th or without an allocation of foreign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or fare is paid in rupees in Ind ia. Certain categories of passengers, including persons traveling between India and Nepal by Indian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and employees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business of their com- pany in one of its carriers, are not required to com- plete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from Ind ia may be settled, without Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts. The export of Ind ian currency notes and coin, except to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denom ina t ions of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck passengers to Bu rma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gulf ports, and East Afr ica, and passengers to Bangladesh, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka, may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes and coin. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coin up to the equ iva lent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to Rs 200 to those proceeding to other countries except Bhu tan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the fore ign cur- rency which they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded US$1,000), less the amounts sold to author- ized dealers and authorized money changers in Ind ia. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted in to fore ign currency and taken out. A foreign travel tax at a rate of Rs 100 a passenger is levied on all passengers embark ing on an in terna t ional jou rney to any destination other than A fghan is tan, Bhu tan, Burma, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay tax at a rate of Rs 50 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported w i thout a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed free ly to all shippers, a few may be exported through estab- lished shippers, and a few commodities are subject to export quotas/5 Exports to Nam ib ia (South West A f r i c a ), Rhodesia (see footnote 4), and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the fu ll export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, inc lud ing the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a foreign person of Indian origin, or he (or "The export of certain commodities, including suga r, raw j u t j, silver, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state trad ing enterprises. INDIA his foreign-born w i fe) is not permanently resident in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghan- istan or Pakistan, within three months of shipment. The Reserve Bank may allow an extension of the six-month period where exports of capital goods or engineering goods are concerned. Some exports, including coffee, groundnuts, carda- mom, chromium ore, and iron ore, are subject to export duties. Some others, including mica, tobacco, and hand- woven woolen carpets, are subject to m in imum prices. A subs tan t ial number of exports, mainly new manufac- tures such as engineering goods, receive cash compensa- tory support in lieu of nonrefundable taxes and levies. An impo rt replenishment scheme provides preferential import licensing facilities for producers of manufactured goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. There are schemes for the priority allotment of motor scooters, agricultural tractors, and cement against certain inward remittances of foreign exchange. The import of Indian currency notes and coin is, in general, prohibited. How- ever, deck passengers from Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gu lf ports, and East Africa, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount from India. Travelers from Burma, other than deck passengers, may bring in Indian cur- rency notes up to Rs 50 an adult and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may br ing in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, pro- vided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of for- eign notes, coin, and travelers checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital Inward capital transfers are, in general, unrestricted, but their subsequent utilization in India is subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees f rom the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Foreign borrowing by nonbank Ind ian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; only in exceptional cases is permission granted for any loan which has not been obtained as an official or o f f ic ia l ly guaran teed credit by the Central Government. Reserve Bank permission is required for in i t ia t ing, expanding, or con t inu ing in Ind ia any business ac t iv i ty or holding or acqu i r ing shares of any company ca r ry ing on a trad ing, commercial, or indus t r ial ac t iv i ty in India, by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Ind ian law, and Ind ian companies w i th over 40 per cent nonres ident interest.7 The Reserve Bank w i ll allow the latter companies to con t inue the ir activities w i th a nonresident equity of more than 40 per cent and up to 74 per cent, depending on the extent to which the company is engaged in "core" indu s t ry or export-oriented production, or in m anu f a c tu r ing activ- ities that require sophisticated technology. Foreign com- panies can retain a 51 per cent nonresident equ i ty as long as the ir combined core sector production, applica- tion of sophisticated technology, and export production account for not less than 60 per cent of the ir annual turnover, and a m in imum of 10 per cent of such tu rn- over is exported w i th in a period not exceeding two years from the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of sophisticated technology, and export production account for not less than 75 per cent of the ir annual tu rnove r, foreign companies can retain a 74 per cent nonresident ownership. Companies with exports exceeding 40 per cent of annual turnover, irrespective of core production or the technology involved, will also be allowed to operate w i th 51 per cent nonresident equity, and those which are able to guarantee a higher percentage of exports on a sustained basis are eligible to operate with a higher per- centage of nonresident equity. Companies which export 100 per cent of production may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Companies that are engaged predomi- nantly in t rad ing activities, or that do not meet the other criteria listed above, are required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 per cent w i th in a specified period, or change the ir activities to meet the above criteria, or wind up their operation in India. In exceptional cases, companies that do not meet these criteria but have devel- oped skills, expertise, or facilities, or use technologies not indigenously available, may be permitted a more than 7 Persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or or ig in who are resident abroad may invest freely in any public or p r iv a te l im i ted company and in any par tnersh ip or proprietorship concern, irrespective of the n a tu re of its activities, provided that the f u n ds required are e i ther rem i t ted f rom abroad th rough normal bank ing channels or are d rawn f rom their Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts, and provided that an unde r tak ing is given that repatriation of the capitai invested or the prof i ts and dividends arising therefrom will not be requested. Nonres ident Ind ians and persons of Ind ian origin residing abroad can also invest up to 20 per cent of the new equity capital issued by new companies setting up perm i t ted indus tr ial projects and up to 74 per cent of new invest- ments, inc lud ing expansion of existing indus tr ial unde r tak ings i.i specified priority industries, and can freely repatriate such investment and income the re f rom af ter deduction of applicable Ind ian taxes. 196 40 per cent foreign participation, provided that this does not exceed 74 per cent. Branches of foreign companies other than airlines, shipping companies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formu las, as fo l low s: companies w i th fore ign direct ho ld ings exceed- ing 75 per cent must raise 40 per cent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equity capital issued to Ind ians; for companies w i th foreign holdings above 60 per cent but below 75 per cent and above 51 per cent but below 60 per cent, the corresponding proportions are 33.3 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively. No new fo re ign equity is permitted in companies engaged pre- dom in an t ly in in ternal trad ing and commercial activities. W i thout the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are proh ib i ted f rom lend ing to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresi- dent interest is more than 40 per cent. Noncitizens, non - Ind ian firms, and nonbank Ind ian firms with more than 40 per cent fore ign par t ic ipa t ion must ob ta in Reserve Bank permission in order to acqu ire, hold, trans- fe r, or dispose of immovab le property w i t h in Ind ia (except when a lease for a period of not more t h an five years is i n v o l v e d ). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all t ran s fe rs of shares of Ind ian companies by nonresidents or fore ign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, f rom engaging in any transaction which increases beyond 49 per cent the nonresident share of a business outside Ind ia in which the nonres ident interest is 49 per cent or less, and they are also prohibited, except w i th Reserve Bank permission, f rom holding, acqu ir ing, t rans fe r r ing, or disposing of immovab le prop- er ty outside Ind ia (except when a lease of not more than five years is invo lved ). Residents also require Reserve Bank approval to t rans fer any interest in a busi- ness in Ind ia to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Ind ian law, or an Ind ian company with over 40 per cent foreign partici- pation. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Ind ian securities to any place outside Ind ia and t ran s fe r r ing Ind ian securities to non- residents. Residents are prohibited —except with central government or Reserve Bank permission —from guaran- teeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except with central government permission, f rom associating with or par t ic ipa t ing in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects af ter Janua ry 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatri- ated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effec t ing a sale which involves repa- triation of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in suitable installments, not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exceeding fou r. The proceeds from liquidated fore ign investments not eligible for repa tr ia t ion are kept in a nonresident account. Ind ian na t iona ls are not no rma l ly granted any fore ign exchange fac i l i t ies for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to the equ iva lent of Rs 100,000 in one lump sum at the t ime of em ig ra t ion; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income are kept in a nonresident account and no f u r t h er remittances, inc lud ing pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign na t iona ls who are tempo ra r i ly resident in Ind ia (o ther than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pak is tan, Rhodesia (see footnote 4), and South A f r i c a) are perm i t ted at the time of their retire- ment to t ran s fer to the ir own countries the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a l im it of Rs 100,000 for each fam i ly at the t ime of re t irement and the rema inder in a n n u al ins ta l lmen ts not exceeding Rs 50,000; in add i t ion, they may t rans fer all the ir cu r- rent rem i t tab le assets in Ind ia. There are no restrictions on the import in to Ind ia of Ind ian or fore ign securities. The acquisition, sale, trans- fer, export, or other disposal of fore ign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign na t iona ls tem- porar i ly but not pe rmanen t ly resident in Ind ia and the ir foreign-born wives also not permanen t ly resident in Ind i a) who are private persons are not norma l ly per- mitted to purchase securities or personal real estate out- side India. Indian nationals, and persons of Ind ian or ig in ho ld ing foreign passports, resident abroad and w i sh ing to re tu rn to India to take up employment or to set up small industrial un i ts are upon application exempted, for a period of five years from the date of the ir re tu rn to India, from the requirement that any fore ign currency balances in the ir possession be surrendered w i th in three months of arrival. As an alternative to ho ld ing such balances in the fo rm of foreign currency, the holder may use the f u n ds for the import of machinery, raw materials, and components, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Fur ther- more, they have the option of surrender ing the ir balances immediately, w i th the right to reacquire them w i th in five years in case they decide to re turn to a fore ign coun try. Balances held in Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Non re s iden t) Accounts in Ind ia by such persons on the date of their re turn to Ind ia are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion fac i l i t ies. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings arising f rom employment abroad with any Indian-owned organization. Foreign nationals of Ind ian origin who have come to Ind ia for employment of a specified dura t ion or for an assignment of a duration not exceeding three years are granted general permission to ma in ta in and operate foreign cu r r en cy accounts. INDIA Under the Re tu rn ing Indians Foreign Exchange En t i t lement Scheme, persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or origin r e tu rn ing to India for permanent residence on or a f ter November 1, 1977 are en t i t led to avail themselves of foreign exchange to the extent of 25 per cent of the amount they brought in on t ran s fer of residence, p lus the balance held in the ir Nonres ident (Ex te rna l) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Non res iden t) Accounts for certain specified purposes for which exchange is no rma l ly not freely available. Persons e l ig ib le under the scheme may make use of the exchange fac i l i ty w i th in a period of ten years f rom the date of re tu rn of the head of the f am i ly. Gold A detailed control is exercised over the acquisition, possession, m a n u f a c t u r e, and disposal of gold through the Adm in i s t ra t ion of Gold (Con t ro l) Act. There is a ban on p r iva te possession of p r im a ry gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold ( i n c l u d i ng co in) previously declared, there is restriction on the ir m anu f a c tu re and acquisition. There is no restriction on the acqu is i t ion, disposal, 6r possession of gold o rnamen ts, except that ho ld ings of such ornaments (wh ich may be of any p u r i t y) above specified l im i ts must be declared. The consumption of gold by indus tr ial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold re f in ing is under state man- agement. The Government M int is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of re f in ing and conversion in to s tandard gold bars. Forward t rad ing in gold or s i lver is proh ib i ted; exports of silver bu l l ion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of products of silver are subject to quota restrictions. W i th the exception of jewelry cons t i tu t ing the per- sonal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any fo rm by residents other than the monetary authorities require special au thor iza t ion from the Reserve Bank and are not no rma l ly permitted; in certain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manu fac tu re gold jewe lry in bond f rom imported gold, for export purposes only. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is guaran teed only in exceptional cases where either no fo re ign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a pa r t icu lar purpose. Special permission is also granted in cases where the gold or silver is impor ted for processing and re-export, provided that payment for the import w i ll not be required, that the en t i re quan t i ty of metal imported w i ll be re-exported in the fo rm of jewelry, and that the va lue added will be repatriated to Ind ia in fore ign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry pro- duced in Ind ia for export, and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary l im i ts, are prohibited unless the export is made by or 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA on behalf of the monetary authorities. Under the gold jewelry export replenishment scheme, replenishment of gold used in the manufac ture of studded gold jewelry of 14 carats or higher purity was allowed, provided a m in imum of 20 per cent was added to the value of the pure gold content in respect of exports under the scheme. The gold imported was canalized through the State Bank of India. This scheme has been suspended for the time being. The export of gold ornaments and jewelry to the Bilateral Account countries is prohibited. Changes during 1979 January 1. The bilateral paymen ts agreement with Bulgaria was terminated and settlements were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 5. Cash compensatory aid was withdrawn from exports of five specified categories of cotton gar- ments to countries with textile import quotas, while cash aid on cotton fabrics was raised from 7.5 per cent to 10 per cent. January 9. The export duty on Bengal Deshi cotton was raised from Rs 700 a ton to Rs 2,500 a ton. January 13. The Reserve Bank announced that with effect from November 25, 1978 a rate for the ruble of rub 1 = Rs 10 had been established (instead of rub 1 = Rs 8.333) for commercial contracts which had been or might be denominated in rubles, except that in respect of commercial contracts concluded prior to November 24, 1978 the new exchange rate would apply only to the outstanding contract value, as well as to the outstanding payment obligations on that date. The ruble- rupee rate would be subject to revision from time to time; there would be no gold clause in any fu tu re con- tracts between parties in the two countries. With effect from June 16, 1979 and August 11, 1979 the ruble- rupee exchange rate was adjusted to rub 1 = Rs 9.6938 and rub 1 = Rs 9.9974, respectively. January 15. It was announced that soda ash m ight be imported under Open General License. January 30. The exchange rate margins were increased from 2.5 per cent on either side of the m idd le rate to 5 per cent. February 2. It was announced that poly vinyl chloride resins might be imported under Open General License. February 15. The export tax on tea of Rs 2 a kilo- gram was abolished. February 20. Exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates were banned. February 23. It was announced that poultry vaccines might be imported under Open General License. February 29. It was announced that polyester filament yarn might be imported under Open General License. March 2. The requirement that all hotels approved by the Department of Tourism could accept payment of hotel bills from foreign tourists only in foreign exchange was eliminated as regards those hotels with restricted money changing licenses issued by the Reserve Bank. 198 March 13. The spot buying and selling rates for the pound sterling were changed to correspond to a middle rate of Rs 16.80 per <£ stg. 1, as against Rs 16.50 per <£ stg. 1 set on December 20, 1978. Thereafter, the spot rates were changed frequently and on December 4, 1979 the middle rate was Rs 17.80 per <£ stg. 1. For- ward rates for one to nine months were adjusted accordingly. March 15. Polyvinyl chloride resins and aluminum fo i ls were exempted from import duties. March 30. It was announced that National Defence Remittance Scheme Special Accounts would be treated in the same way as ordinary nonresidents accounts w i th effect f rom April 2, 1979. April 1. It was announced that there would be no limitation on exports of tea du r ing the financial year beg inn ing April 1, 1979. April 1. The rates of cash assistance were revised for a wide range of export categories, including engi- neering goods, man-made textiles, and woolen products. May 3. The foreign trade policy for 1979/80 main- tained the basic framework introduced in April 1979. The emphasis continued to be to support development by liberalizing restrictions on imports and rationalizing and s imp l i fy ing procedures, and by giving added impetus to indigenous production and exports. The principal measures introduced were the following: (1) The list of imports under Open General License was expanded with regard to both capital goods and other imports. (2) The regulations for issuance of automatic licenses were relaxed to encourage growth of small-scale units and to give special incentives to industrial units to export at least part of their output. The scheme for granting advance licenses with exemption from payment of import du ty on raw materials and components required for export production was broadened to cover more export products and raw materials and components. (3) The procedures for receipt of cash compensatory support and replenishment licenses for registered export- ers were simplified. (4) Provision was made for project contractors to buy equipment needed for the execution of projects abroad in the country where the project was located or in third countries; upon completion of the project, the used equipment might be imported into India. (5) A lum inum, natural rubber, and cement (including c l inke r ), some chemicals, and drugs were added to the list of canalized imports. (6) Nonresident Indians returning to India were permitted to import capital goods up to Rs 2.5 million without regard to the availability of such goods in India. In addition, imports of raw materials, components, etc., up to Rs 0.5 million for meeting one-year's manufacturing requirements might be financed out of foreign exchange savings. The import of used capital goods would also be permitted, provided the value of the capital goods involved, if new, would have been no more than Rs 2.5 million. (7) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports of foodgrains, except basmati rice, were banned, although existing commitments would be met. June 18. The export duty on coffee was raised from Rs 4 a kilogram to Rs 7.50 a kilogram. It was further raised to Rs 9 a kilogram on July 6, but on August 4 was lowered to Rs 7.30 a kilogram. June 20. Authorized dealers were permitted, without prior approval, to allow remittances of dividends on equity shares to nonresidents where the equity shares would not exceed Rs 500,000 at face value or 25 per cent of the total issued equity capital, whichever was less. August 7. Foreign persons of Indian origin, and their foreign-born wives, resident in India for employment of a specified duration or for carrying out an assignment of a duration not exceeding three years would be eligible for exemption from the requirement of surrender of for- eign exchange and might, in the same way as foreign nationals of non-Indian origin, maintain accounts in for- eign currency, hold foreign securities, etc. August 8. Authorized dealers were permitted, with- out prior approval, to remit registration fees for medical, INDIA scientific, and technological conferences up to a limit of US$300. Authorized dealers might release US$500 to students at graduate or postgraduate levels provided they had secured a scholarship, an assistantship, etc., to meet the entire tuition and maintenance expenses. August 8. Authorized dealers were permitted to sell foreign exchange up to Rs 300 and Rs 400, respectively, to Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin resident in India, for travel to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka once in a calendar year. August 24. The export duty on cardamom was raised from Rs 10 a kilogram to Rs 15 a kilogram. September 26. The scope of the facility available to Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin returning to India with a view to securing employment ii* India was extended to include most persons of Indian origin, irrespective of qualifications and background. In addi- tion, the reconversion facility was extended from three to five years. November 8. The cash compensatory aid of 5 per cent on jute carpet backing was withdrawn. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. On November 16, 1978 the exchange rate of the rupiah was adjusted from R p 4 15 per US$1 to Rp 625 per US$1, and the l ink with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was discontinued. Since that date Bank Indo- nesia has set the middle rate each day using a basket of currencies of Indonesia's ma in trading partners as one of the variables. Transactions in the Jakarta Foreign Exchange Bourse are effected at rates within 1 per cent either side of the middle rate of the rupiah; on Decem- ber 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for telegraphic transfers were Rp619 .50 and Rp 623.00, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the rates in the Jakarta Bourse for the U.S. dollar and rates for the currencies concerned in in terna t ional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the Bourse daily calls for exchange are conducted under the management of Bank Indonesia. B idd ing for exchange is restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institutions, and licensed for- eign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia is committed to deal with any w i l l ing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the foreign exchange banks no t ify Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a particular rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the intervention rate. The Bank also offers authorized banks certain facilities for forward contracts in respect of aid exchange and for swap transactions in U.S. dol- lars. The latter is also extended to nonbank financial institutions. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives, the Ministry of Finance, authorized for- eign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Exporters' licenses are issued by the offices of the Ministry of Trade and Coop- eratives in provincial capitals. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system,2 but the Indonesian rupiah is legal tender there. 1 Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's international trans- actions, i.e., Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. -W i th the exception that the prohibition on imports of certain automobiles is applicable also in Sabang. 200 Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in con- vertible currencies. Export proceeds must be received in specified currencies.3 Indonesia has no operative pay- ments agreements.4 Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign currencies with authorized foreign exchange banks. No distinction for exchange control purposes is made between resident and nonresident accounts. However, no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts; if the account holder wishes to withdraw funds, a letter must be sent to the bank. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an in i t ial deposit is required for registration. Since Octo- ber 31, 1968 only Indonesian nationals may obtain an importer's license, but certain established foreign firms have retained their licenses and new foreign investors can obtain an importer's license restricted to the import of materials required for their own projects. Imports from Angola, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of any secondhand goods and of specified commodities. The latter include built-up sedans and station wagons; com- ponents for the assembly of luxury automobiles; built-up commercial vehicles and motorcycles; radio and televi- sion sets in built-up or semiknocked-down condition; bu i l t -up air conditioners, refrigerators, and electric sew- ing machines; sarongs; galvanized iron sheets; iron roof- ing sheets; mosquito sticks; matches; monosodium glu- tamate; mattresses; certain types of cotton yarn; and specified types of textiles, automobile tires, batteries, printed matter, office supplies, animal traps, bottles, and lamps and light bulbs. Imports of cloves, fertilizer, rice, refined sugar, and wheat and wheat flour are restricted to specified approved importers. Imports of certain commodities for the "basic national stockpile" are reserved for state enterprises; these currently include cement, newsprint, certain types of paper, automobile tires, asphalt, cotton weaving yarn, sheet iron, reinforc- ing steel, raw materials for maritime industries, and pharmaceutical raw materials. No licenses are required for imports. In principle, all permitted imports may be paid for with general exchange (Devisa Umum). Bankers' sight letters of credit are required for most private sector 3 The currencies listed in footnote 1 and the U.S. dollar. * Indonesia maintains an inoperative bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports with the exception of parcel imports, goods brought in by travelers of a value not exceeding US$100, imports specifically authorized by the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives or by the Investment Coordinating Board in the case of goods constituting part of a foreign investment, and those specific cases in which usance letters of credit may be allowed. For imports financed with general exchange, importers are required to make an advance deposit of at least 40 per cent of the letter of credit value when subm i t t ing applications for letters of credit to authorized banks, and to settle the balance upon receipt of the documents, upon arrival of the goods, or within 75 days of the opening of the letter of credit. The amount of the deposit against letters of credit for nongovernment imports financed with aid exchange (Devisa Kredit) is left to the discretion of the authorized bank if it purchases aid exchange forward from Bank Indonesia. Import duties, which are ma in ly ad valorem, are imposed on "check" prices (indicative prices) deter- mined by the Ministers of Trade and Cooperatives, Industry, and Finance on the recommendation of a Check Price Team. These prices reflect c.i.f. prices and are changed when prices abroad d i f fer by more than 10 per cent from the check prices for the preceding three months. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are levied on most imports on their c. & f. value plus import duty. Items which are exempt from import duties also are exempt from sales taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank- notes but only Rp 2,500 in Indonesian notes and coin other than gold and silver commemorative coin (see sec- tion on Gold, below). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, the People's Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of gold ore and pure gold; raw- hides of cattle; certain categories of unprocessed or low- quality rubber; certain logs and timber; all types of waste paper ( f rom Java and Madu ra ); scrap of bronze and copper (except from Irian J ay a ); iron scrap; and steel scrap. Exports of certain domestically produced com- modities are controlled by means of quotas, in order to ma in ta in supplies to meet domestic demand; these include fertilizers, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, salt, wheat flour, paper, asphalt, sugar, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, and meat. The prior authorization of the Minister of Trade and Cooperatives is required for the export of flatbark crepe, cinchona bark, clove seeds, pepper seeds, silver, antiques of cultural value, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Other- wise, all commodities may be freely exported by regis- tered private firms and state trading firms. INDONESIA Certain export transactions may be settled under usance letters of credit; the max imum ma tur i ty is 180 days, starting f rom the date of the bill of lading. Other- wise, all exporters except certain m in ing companies and licensed "border-crossing" traders must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the value of the goods to be exported. The exporter must sur- render the f u ll foreign exchange value prior to shipment if there is no banker's letter of credit.5 For the principal export commodities other than petroleum, the sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices deter- m ined periodically by the Minister of Trade and Coop- eratives. The fu ll proceeds f rom exports other than petroleum, products of certain m in ing companies, and goods exported by licensed "border-crossing" traders are subject to surrender (except in "border-crossing" trade; see be low). Exports of copra cake, sawn timber, rubber, coffee, palm kernels, palm oil, pepper, and a few other commodities are subject to a 5 per cent tax, the major mineral products to a 10 per cent tax, and semiprocessed rattan, unsawn timber ( logs ), and certain types of hides to a 20 per cent tax. Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" trade w i th Malaysia, the value of import or export transac- tions must not exceed M$600 a month, whether trans- ported overland or by sea; for the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single tr ip if trans- ported by sea-going vessel or US$1,500 if transported by boat. Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed pri- ma r i ly by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of Janu- ary 10, 1967, as amended in August 1970, by Presi- dential Guidelines issued on January 22, 1974 and September 21, 1974, and by two Presidential Decrees promulgated on October 3, 1977. In principle, such investments may be under taken only through a joint venture with an Indonesian partner. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the Investment Coor- d in a t ing Board (BK PM ). Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business un i ts must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have the ir domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for fore ign investment is usually valid for a maximum of 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemp- t ion f rom, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years. Investors are granted the right to transfer profits (a f ter settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia) and to make transfers re la t ing to expenses connected with the employment of foreign na t iona ls in Indonesia, and in respect of depre- ciation allowances after the expiration of the tax holiday 5 There are separate arrangemen ts for exports of orchids. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA from corporation tax. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the investments benefit from tax relief; at present, how- ever, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed by the Petroleum Law of 1960. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding nonguaran- teed claims against Indonesia. Rupiahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two kinds of DICS-Rupiah Accounts, A and B, the former relating only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private credi- tors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and pre- pared to make investments under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967 are paid in rupiahs in settle- ment of their claims. These claims are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the origi- nal creditor's DICS rupiahs may be used, in the credi- tor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967, for the pur- chase of foreign exchange for the import of equipment and raw materials necessary for the establishment and operation of those projects. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indo- nesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. A 15 per cent reserve require- ment is applicable to the foreign currency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no deposit requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank finan- cial institutions or private companies. Certain borrow- ing abroad is subject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrowing is subject to reporting to Bank Indonesia and /or the Ministry of Finance. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign nation- ality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiahs or in foreign currency. Gold Indonesia has issued six commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coin in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited. Travelers may freely take out Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 up to Rp 65,000 a person, and gold and silver coins issued in October 1974 up to Rp 130,000 a person; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indo- nesia. Gold may be imported free of license only by 202 importers designated by the Government. Such imports require prior notification to the Ministry of Industry and are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes during 1979 January 29. The facility given to foreign exchange banks to conclude swap transactions with Bank Indo- nesia was extended to include nonbank financial insti- tutions. The premium was reduced from a uniform 6 per cent per annum to 2.25 per cent, 2.50 per cent, and 2.75 per cent for transactions of one, three, and six months, respectively. Each foreign exchange bank and nonbank financial institution was subject to a ceil- ing set by Bank Indonesia. April 4. Total exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted on imports of wood pulp and raw flax to produce paper. April 5. Total or partial exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted on imports of vaccines, serums, and medicines and raw material for medicines needed for veterinary use. April 6. Exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted on the import of fish meal and soybean meal as raw material for cattle fodder and polyester chips to produce polyester fibers and yarn. April 7. The export of steel scrap from the entire territory of Indonesia was prohibited. May 8. Exporters of polyester woven fabrics were granted export certificates encashable at 9.75 per cent of the check price. June 14. Partial exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted on imports of electrical wires and cables. June 19. An additional export tax was imposed on coffee and black tea. June 20. An additional export tax was imposed on stearin. July 1. An additional export tax was imposed on palm oil. July 5. The issuance of export licenses for coffee was temporarily suspended. It was resumed on July 26. July 23. Exports of unprocessed rattan and rawhides were banned. Total exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted on imports of spun silk yarn. August 4. Export taxes on certain types of hide and semiprocessed rattan were raised from 5 per cent to 20 per cent. September 6. Export taxes on coconut oil and copra were raised. September 26. Customs duties were reduced on 334 categories of raw materials and semifinished goods, including chemicals, paper, textiles, tobacco, minerals, and electrical products. In addition, customs duties on about 1,000 other categories of raw materials and semi- finished goods were reduced from 5-40 per cent to 5-10 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN (Position on December 57, 7979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Iran is the I ran ian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 82.2425 = SDR 1. Iran ma in- tains exchange rates for the rial w i th in a target zone above and below the fixed central rate; these target zones are based on the relative purchasing power of the rial vis-a-vis that of the currencies of Iran's ma jor trading partners and other basic under ly ing economic conditions. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 the official rates of Bank Markazi Iran (the Central B ank) for the U.S. dollar, the only currency that is officially quoted, were Rls 70.35 buy ing and Rls 70.60 selling, per US$1. The Bank Markazi also publishes daily exchange rates for 12 other currencies1 for the purpose of calculating import registration fees and import duties; these rates are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the London ma rket rates for the currencies concerned. Proceeds from exports by the private sector are con- verted at a preferential rate of Rls 78 per US$1. Pro- ceeds from exports of goods and services by the public sector are sold at the official rate. Transactions over clearing accounts are in all cases settled at the official buy ing and selling rates. There is an uno f f ic ial rate of Rls 105 per US$1 applied to sales of fore ign exchange for tourism and certain other payments for invisibles. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Bank Markazi. In principle, all foreign exchange transactions must take place through this Bank or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued annua l ly by the Ministry of Commerce after being approved by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with seven of the ten countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, while those with the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic, and North Korea must be conducted through accounts denominated in Iranian rials. Settlements with Mexico may optionally be made through a clearing account denom ina ted in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the other member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petro- leum, natural gas, and their products) may be effected 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, PolanJ, Romania, and U.S.S.R. in As ian mone ta ry units or in the currency of a country that is a party to the individual contract. Payments to and f rom Pakistan and Turkey relating to visible trade (exc lud ing border trade, petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, and defense ma ter ia ls) are settled over clearing accounts ma in ta ined by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Settlements with other countries norma l ly are settled in the quoted currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to ma in ta in accounts f ree ly, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with authorized banks; rial accounts may be used for pay- men ts in Iran. Foreign nationals as well as Iranian phys ical or ju r id ical persons may ma in ta in sight or time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; these accounts may be used for transfers abroad subject to approval by Bank Markazi. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited and special regulations apply to certain com- modities when or ig ina t ing in Hong Kong. All imports in to Iran are subject to control. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effective for the next I ran ian year (March 21-March 20), is published by the Ministry of Commerce. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthor- ized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of goods whose importation is considered essential are divided into two main categories: imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by gove rnment agencies,3 and imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies (generally the M in is t ry of Commerce) before the import order may be placed. "Unauthorized" imports are goods whose impor ta t ion is not considered essential, including goods whose local production is sufficient to meet domestic demand. Commodities may be shifted from the "author- ized" list to the "unauthorized" list, and vice versa, as and when deemed necessary. For "prohibited" goods, no au thor iza t ions are given; these comprise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports of "authorized" goods without payment require prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the "Bank Markazi. However, these imports are permitted without limitation, provided that registration is made before the order is placed. Such imports up to US$5,000 are permitted without prior registration but are subject to a registration fee. In addition, permission :{ Exports and imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral export or import list for countries w i th which Iran has bilateral trade and payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Commerce. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN is g iven for the f o l l ow i n g: impo r ts d e s t in ed for o f f i c i al char i tab le i n s t i t u t i o ns or gove rnment o rgan iza t ion s; m a c h i n e r y; spare p a r ts and raw or i n t e rm e d i a te m a t e r i a ls for produc t ive en t i t ies, up to US$1,000 a sh ipmen t; and a ll o t h er impo r ts of "au tho r ized" goods up to US$300 a s h i pm e n t. Impo r ts on t h is basis a re exempt f rom the impo rt reg i s t ra t ion depos i t. Impo r ts of g i f t s, whe ther of "au thor ized" or "un au tho r i z ed" commod i t ies, are res tr ic ted to R ls 20,000 a person a year. Specified com- mod i t ies, such as c iga re t te pape r, suga r, tobacco, and whea t, a re impo r ted u n d er s ta te monopo ly. Paymen ts may be made e i ther aga inst b i l ls for col- lec t ion or do cum en t a ry letters of c red i t. Paymen ts aga inst b i l ls for collection may be made w i t h o ut p r ior au tho r i z a t ion for goods ( m a i n ly c ap i t al goods and raw m a t e r i a l s) l is ted in the Schedule attached to C i rcu lar No. 9292 of September 17, 1978. Paymen ts for im p o r ts of o ther goods may also be made against b i l ls for col- lection w i thout p r ior pe rm iss ion f rom the Bank M a rk a z i, prov ided t h at the b i l ls a re settled w i t h in n i ne mon th s. A ll orders for impo r ts m u st be registered w i th the Bank Ma rkazi through an au tho r i z ed b a n k; reg i s t ra t ion is effected aga in st a pro forma invoice. At the t ime of reg is t ra t ion of impo r t s, a fee of 1 per cent of the am o u nt of the import order, ca lcu la ted on the basis of the o f f ic ial s e l l i ng ra te, is collected by au tho r- ized banks. Impo r ts b rought in u n d er the Law for the A t t r a c t ion and Pro tec t ion of Foreign Inv e s tm ent in I ran are exempt f rom the fee. For some goods, impo r te rs must lodge w i th the Bank Ma rkaz i, th rough the au tho r- ized b a n k, a deposit of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. v a lu e; th is is done at the t ime of reg i s t ra t ion. Most food items and ce r ta in other commod i t ies a re exempt f rom the registration deposit. The deposit is r e f u n d a b le upon presen ta t ion of the customs c learance cer t if ica te a f t er the goods have been cleared th rough customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The Bank Ma rkazi may p e rm i t, when necessary, the s h i f t i ng of impo r ts f rom the ca tegory in wh ich an advance impo rt deposit is requ i red to the exempt category and vice versa. Au tho r ized b anks make p aym en ts for p e rm i t t ed impor ts ag a in st the p re sen ta t ion of s h i p p i ng documen ts. App roval of the sh ipp ing documen ts by the au tho r ized banks represen ts approval of the fo re ign exchange t rans fe r. Most impo r ts are subject to commerc ial bene f it taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed in a d d i t i on to any applicable customs du ty. The ad va lo rem commercial bene f it tax ranges f rom 1 per cent to 200 per cent. Monopoly taxes are inc luded in the comme rc ial benef it taxes. The au thor i t ies specify in the Impo rt List the commerc ial benef it taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance th rough customs is authorized upon the presentation of sh ipp ing documents endorsed by an au thor ized bank, specifying that payment ru.s been m ade or w i ll be made, and, when requ ired, that the 204 spec ial impo rt a u t h o r i z a t i on has been received from g o v e r nm e nt agenc ies pr ior to l ad ing of goods in the c o u n t ry of o r ig in. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for a ll cu r rent i n v i s i b l es mu st be made at the o f f ic ial rate. Paymen ts for inv is ib les related to im p o r ts are made on the same basis as paymen ts for the f.o.b. v a l ue of those impor ts. Official exchange is g r an t ed to impo r te rs for in su r an ce of impor ts against b i l ls for co l lec t ion; for imports covered by documen ta ry le t te rs of cred i t, in su rance must be t ak en out in Iran. O f f i c i al exchange is not gran ted to exporters for insur- ance of I r a n i an exports sold f.o.b. Official exchange also is not g ran ted for the payment of other insurance p r em i um s, a l though payment of p r em iums for reinsur- ance is perm i t ted. Fore ign n a t i o n a ls w o r k i ng in I r an, whose emp loyment has been recognized as necessary by the Governmen t, may r em it at the off ic ial ra te about 50 per cent of the ir net salaries. The basic t ravel allowance for an indi- v i d u al I r a n i an amoun ts to the equ iva lent of US$2,250, comp r i s ing US$750 at the off ic ial rate and US$1,500 at a special rate of Rls 105 per US$1. The spouse of the passport holder can obtain the equ iva lent of US$500 at the o f f ic ial rate and US$1,000 at the uno f f ic ial rate; the a l lowance for c h i l d r en is ha lf of that for the passport ho lder but is restricted to two ch i ld ren. Thus, a fam i ly i n t e n d i ng to t ravel abroad is pe rm i t ted to buy foreign exchange not exceeding US$6,000 a t r ip, upon presenta- t ion of a v a l id passport, a t ravel t icke t, and a receipt of p aym ent of travel tax. Persons need ing medical t r e a tm ent may obtain foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of US$10,000, consisting of US$5,000 at the o f f ic ial rate and US$5,000 at the u n o f f i c i al ra te of Rls 105 per US$1; add i t ional fore ign exchange can be ob ta ined at the uno f f ic ial rate against med ical b i l ls ce r t i f ied by an I r a n i an consulate abroad. The sale of fo re ign exchange to s tuden ts s tudy ing abroad is l im i t ed to the equ iv a l ent of US$1,000 a mon th, trans- fe rab le on a qua r te r ly basis and subject to a letter of v e r i f i c a t i o n. I r a n i an physical and ju r id ical persons may m a ke rem i t tances abroad f rom domestic current accoun ts in which they re ta in fore ign exchange received f r om sources abroad, w i th the prior approval of Bank Ma rkaz i. I r a n i an n a t i o n a ls leav ing the coun t ry are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 20,000 for each s ing le- journey ex it p e rm i t. The tax is imposed also for pilgrimage t r a v e l. For f am i ly members t r a v e l i ng on the same pass- port (w i f e, and children f rom 7 to 18 years of age), the ra te is Rls 5,000 a person. I ran ians resident abroad and s tuden ts s tudy ing abroad but v i s i t ing home tem- porar i ly are exempt f rom the tax. Travelers leav ing I ran may take w i th them Rls 20,000 in I r an i an bankno tes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export fore ign currency in excess of the amount ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution they imported less the amoun ts they have sold to au thor- ized banks, as recorded in the ir passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. The commercial benefit tax and customs du ty charged at the time of import of raw ma te r ia ls con- ta ined in m a n u f a c t u r ed goods for export may be re turned to the exporter a f ter the export has taken place. Cer ta in m inor exports are granted incentive pay- men ts by the Center for the Promotion of Exports. The Bank Markazi offers p re fe ren t ial discount fac i l i t ies for export bills. The foreign currency proceeds from exports of com- modities other than petroleum, petroleum products, and na tu ral gas may be retained abroad; if they are repatri- ated, they may be kept as fore ign currency deposits w i th authorized banks or be sold to the b a n k i ng system. Authorized banks no rma l ly accept export proceeds on ly in U.S. dollars and other quoted currencies (see foot- note 1) but they are permitted to accept other cur- rencies at their discretion. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be re ta ined in a foreign currency account with an authorized b a n k; transfers f rom such accounts require the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Travelers may freely b r ing in Rls 20,000 in I ran ian banknotes; the import of larger amoun ts requires the prior approval of Bank Markazi as does the repatriation of I ran ian bankno tes th rough the postal system. Capital I ran ian nationals may re ta in in domestic fore ign cur- rency accounts any capital receipts acc ru ing in fore ign exchange; t rans fe rs abroad from such accounts require the approval of the Bank Markazi but domestic t r an s f e rs to other I ran ian nationals may be made freely. Re trans- fer abroad of foreign capital at the official selling rate is permitted with approval from the Bank Markaz i, provided that the inflow had been specifically au thor ized by, and registered with, the Bank Markazi. Authorized banks may freely accept inflows of fore ign exchange f rom abroad (both deposits and bo r row ings) and may lend the foreign currency to residents or sell it for r ia ls; the rial counterpart may be lent to residents, but such l end ing is subject to the applicable credit ceilings. The net short-term fore ign liabilities of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requ irement of 20 per cent. In accordance with the Law for the A t trac t ion and Protection of Foreign Investment in I ran (1955) and regulations imp lemen t ing the law, fore ign capital invested in approved development or productive activi- ties in indus try, m in ing, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance IRAN w i th A r t ic le 1 of the law and the provisions contained in the imp lemen t ing regu la t ions ), in the fo rm of foreign exchange a n d / or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the official market selling rate preva i l ing on the date of transfer. However, the Bank Markazi has the option of buy ing the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted in to rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and th is rate is app l icab le to any repa t r ia t ion of the fund s. Capital impor ted u n d er this law in the form of foreign exchange must be in currenc ies acceptable to the Bank Markazi; the exchange is converted in to rials at the buy ing rate p reva i l ing on the date of application for conversion. All conversions must take place in the official market ( c ap i t a l, profits and dividends, amortization, and liqui- da t ion proceeds). Foreign participation in domestic en terpr ises is subject to ceilings. In investment areas w i th special technological requirements, foreign par- t ic ipa t ion is l im i ted to 35 per cent. In sectors with lower technological requ iremen ts the ceiling is less than 35 per cent. However, in newly founded jo int owner- sh ip companies, the foreign par tner may apply for a h igher share in ownership for up to five years, unless he immed ia te ly l im i ts his share to the legal max imum. Gold No I r a n i an gold coins are legal tender. Residents may free ly and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold and silver in any form in I ran, and there is a free ma rket for both metals. Authorized banks may import gold and silver bu l l ion with p r ior approval of the Bank Ma rkazi aga inst settlement at the official rate. The impo rt and export of gold for mone tary purposes or for in te rna t ional settlements is reserved for the Bank Mar- kaz i, wh i le impor ts for indus t r ial and den tal use are effected by professional organizations at the official rate and subject to superv is ion by the Bank Markazi. The export of I r an i an gold coins for num isma t ic purposes requires prior approval by the Bank Markaz i. Imports of gold are f ree f rom customs du ty but are subject to a commercial benefit tax of 5 per cent and an import reg is tra t ion fee of 1 per cent. Changes during 1979 March 4. It was announced that ( 1) the remittance of fore ign exchange to I ran ian students s tudy ing abroad would hencefor th be restricted to the equivalent of US$1,000 a mon th, which could be transferred on a qua r te r ly basis; (2) sales of foreign exchange to pay for medical t rea tment abroad would be pe rm i t ted only with approval of the Bank Ma rkaz i; and ( 3) remittances of fo re ign exchange for the use of retired persons residing abroad wou ld con t inue un t il f u r t h er notice provided the recipients submitted s ta temen ts de f in ing their status. April 22. New export and import regulations for 1979/80 were published by the Ministry of Commerce. April 24. It was announced that payment for sub- scriptions to newspapers and periodicals, for member- 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN ship fees in scientific and cultural institutions, and for miscellaneous expenses abroad could be effected up to the equivalent of US$100 w i thout prior approval of the Bank Markazi. May 5. Exporters were required to submit foreign exchange under tak ings for the exportation of goods. The banks were permitted to purchase from private sector exporters any foreign exchange proceeds at an exchange ra te of Rls 78 per US$1. June 13. Remittances up to the equivalent of US$500, at an uno f f ic ial exchange rate of Rls 105 per US$1, were permitted for the following purposes: subscrip- tions to foreign publications, membership fees in scien- tific, cu l tu ra l, and international institutions, purchases of books, educational expenses for pupils in elementary schools (on a monthly basis), expenditures incurred in obtaining acceptance at foreign universities, and travel allowances for spouses accompanying a passport holder. July 8. Persons in need of medical treatment abroad could obtain foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$10,000 (divided equally between the official and unofficial rates) provided they deposited Rls 30 against each dollar bought. Iranian nationals traveling abroad as individuals were entitled to buy the equivalent of US$2,000 at the official rate and US$2,000 at the uno f f ic ial rate. A fam i ly traveling abroad accompanying the holder of a valid passport could obtain foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$10,000 (divided equa l ly between the official and unofficial rates), pro- vided they deposited Rls 30 against each dollar bought. The deposit could be reclaimed by the traveler on return to Iran. August 27. Pilgrims to Mecca of Iranian nationality were permitted to purchase the equivalent of US$3,000 at the official rate, without payment of a deposit. September 30. For imports valued at more than the equ iva lent of US$50,000, the importer would be required to present a notarized affidavit issued by the supplier to the effect that the pro forma invoice was correct and that the quoted prices conformed to market prices. October 6. The basic foreign exchange allowance for an ind iv idual traveler was reduced to US$750 at the official rate and US$1,500 at the unofficial rate. The max imum allowance for a fam i ly (husband, wife, and two ch i ld ren) was set at US$6,000. The requirement that Rls 30 be deposited for each dollar bought was abolished. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 = US$3.377778. The official buying and selling rates on December 31, 1979 were US$3.394678 and US$3.377778, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only with authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this authority has been delegated to the Governor and his Deputy who act on recommendations submitted by an Advisory Com- mittee on Fbreign Exchange. Certain approval author- ity has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Gov- ernor. All branches of the Rafidain Bank, the sole com- mercial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy is determined by the Committee for the Regulation of Trade. A foreign exchange budget, including an import pro- gram, is established annually, and foreign exchange allo- cations under the import program are supervised by the Import Program Committee. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries no rma l ly must be made in any of the listed currencies or by draw ing on a nonresident account in Iraqi dinars, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were obtained origi- nally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Pay- ments to and receipts from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The Central Bank exercises supervision over payments to and receipts f rom Egypt; remittances by Egyptian nationals working in Iraq are permitted up to a limit of 50 per cent of earnings, and certain private sector companies in Egypt that have con- tracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer amounts provided for in those contracts. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresi- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. dent accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments With few exceptions, imports of commodities are handled by the socialized sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials con- stituting basic elements for development projects benefit- ing from Law No. 157 of 1973. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protection list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. A tax is levied on the amount of any supplementary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. Regulations determining the incidence of this tax are issued annually. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 per cent is levied on imports of capital goods and a tax of 0.75 per cent on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also sub- ject to a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. The Rafidain Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Raf ida in Bank is per- m i t ted, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, to t r an s f er up to 50 per cent of annual income accrued to A r ab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the par t icu lar contract extends this limit to 75 per cent. Egyptian individuals and companies that have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amoun ts provided for in those contracts. There is a basic exchange allowance for tourist travel of ID 500 a tr ip for each person 18 years of age or over ( ID 250 for persons under 18) for trips to Arab coun- tries, socialist countries, Iran, and Turkey, irrespective of the length of stay; for subsequent trips in the same calendar year these allowances may be reduced to 50 per cent of the basic allowance for one trip. For tourist travel to other countries, the basic allowance is ID 1,000 a tr ip for each person 18 years of age (ID 500 for per- 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ sons under 18 ), irrespective of the length of stay, and 50 per cent of the basic allocation for subsequent tr ips in the same calendar year. The basic exchange allowance for official travel is ID 30 a day, subject to a max imum of ID 900 for travel to Arab countries (other than Gulf coun t r ies ), socialist countries, I ran, and Turkey, and ID 45 a day, subject to a max imum of ID 1,400 for travel to all otlor countries inc lud ing Gu lf countries. Foreign exchange allocations for Iraqi s tuden ts abroad are as follows: in addition to ac tual tu i t ion costs, ID 1,800 for each academic year in the United States, ID 1,600 in the Un i ted K ingdom, and ID 900 in A rab countries; supplementary allowances of ID 250 a year to students in the United Kingdom and the United States and ID 200 to students in other countries may be permitted on request. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in travelers checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 300 in listed currencies or in Saudi A rab ian riyals (ID 150 for persons over 5 and under 18 ). On leav ing the coun t ry, I raqi na t iona ls must pay an exit tax of ID 20, except when traveling to Gu lf countries or the Syrian A rab Repub l ic or on offi- cial business. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca and exports of certain goods to all other countries are pro- hibited. The Committee for the Regulation of Trade has au tho r i ty to prohibit the export of any commod i ty when supply falls short of domestic demand. The export of certain items is reserved for the General Organ iza t ion for Exports. All other exports are licensed free ly. Exporters generally must undertake to repa tr ia te their foreign exchange proceeds through the Ra f ida in Bank and to surrender them w i t h in s ix mon ths a f t er sh ipmen t. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by s a i l ing boats to coun tr ies of the Gu lf area (exc lud ing I r a n ), Ind ia, and Pakistan are exempt from these requ iremen ts when the amount does not exceed ID 600 in va lue or 25 tons in weight. Exports of cer ta in goods are subsidized t h r o u gh an Export Subsidy Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 f rom invisibles must be surrendered within three months to a licensed dealer. Travelers may br ing in foreign exchange, inc lud ing currency notes (other than Israel cu r r en cy ), in unlimited amounts, provided that the f u n ds are declared on an exchange control f o rm; amoun ts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt f rom declaration. Travelers may br ing in ID 25 in Iraqi notes, and nationals of Gulf coun tr ies may br ing in ID 100 in such notes. 208 Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica, but they must deposit it w i th the Ra f ida in Bank; such deposits may be con- verted into local currency at the official rate, and repatri- ation to the coun t ry of origin is permitted. The t rans fer of profits (net of income t a x) from foreign investments is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trading companies, to 20 per cent of the pa id -up cap i tal for indu s t r ial companies, and to 50 per cent of total profit for service companies. These per- centages are applicable for each year separately. They also app ly to profits on capital resulting f rom the man- da to ry reinvestment of profits in excess of the transfer- able percentage. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt f rom these percentage limitations and interest payments are not subject to ceilings. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whe ther Iraqis or foreigners, requ ire exchange control approval. Special facilities a l low A rab investors to bring in convertible currency f r e e ly th rough the Ra f ida in Bank for specified invest- ment purposes; such capital and any net profits may be transferred abroad in convertible currency. Similar fac i l i t ies perm it Iraqi nationals to b r ing in convertible cu r rency through the Raf ida in Bank and deposit the f u n ds in foreign currency accounts, balances in which are f ree ly transferab le abroad. Und er the Indus t r ial Promotion Law (No. 22 of 1973), certain incentives and guarantees may be granted to approved inves tmen ts of domestic or foreign capital in Iraq. U n d er the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign-owned firms mu st have a ma jo r i ty of equ i ty capital held by Iraqi na t iona ls; th is law does not cover export agencies and ope ra t ions requ i r ing special skills. Gold Residents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in I raq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Cen tral Bank. The Raf ida in Bank has a monopoly over the impo rt and domestic distribution of gold needed for indu s t r ial purposes; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths on ly, und er a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely bring gold into Iraq, pro- vided that it is declared at the point of entry on a for- eign exchange form. Changes during 1979 April 25. Following the Baghdad conference of March 1979 the Central Bank of Iraq banned all finan- c ial transactions between Iraqi and Egyptian entities. The ban did not extend, however, to remittances to Egyptian banks by Egyptian workers in Iraq or to finan- cial transactions relating to certain trading operations between private sector companies in Iraq and Egypt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ August 9. Licensed dealers in foreign exchange were authorized to issue foreign exchange to Iraqis proceed- ing abroad for purposes of tourism as follows: for trav- elers to A rab countries, socialist countries, Iran, and Turkey, each person aged 18 years or over might pur- chase the foreign exchange equivalent of an amount not exceeding ID 500, irrespective of the leng th of stay abroad; for travelers to other countries, the foreign exchange equivalent of ID 750. Persons under 18 years of age might purchase 50 per cent of these amounts. August 14. The foreign exchange allocation for tour- ist travel to countries other than Arab countries, socialist countries, Iran, and Turkey was increased to ID 1,000 for persons aged 18 or over. The foreign exchange allo- cations for official travel were raised to ID 30 a day, subject to a max imum of ID 900, for travel to Arab countries (other than Gulf coun tr ies), socialist coun- tries, I ran, and Turkey, and ID 45 a day, subject to a m ax imum of ID 1,400 for travel to all other countries inc lud ing Gu lf countries. September 1. The foreign exchange allowances for Iraqi s tuden ts abroad were increased. In addition to remittances to cover actual tuition costs, an Iraqi student would be en t i t led to an exchange allowance of ID 1,800 for each academic year in the United States, ID 1,600 in the United Kingdom, and ID 900 in A rab countries. Supplementary allowances of ID 250 a year to students in the Un i ted Kingdom and the United States and ID 200 to students in other countries might be per- mitted on request. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with th is agreement, Ireland ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants within marg ins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per cent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ireland stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1979 these rates were Irish Pounds Specified Intervention Rates Per: Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 1.71755 1.64198 100 Danish kroner 8.84854 8.45922 100 deutsche mark 27.533 26.323 100 French francs 11.6881 11.1739 100 Italian lire 0.0612801 0.0543545 100 Netherlands guilders 24.9089 23.8130 The participants in the EMS are not maintaining exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention curren- cies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Official rates are quoted only for pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$2.1465 and US$2.1455, respectively, per Ir <£ 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On February 15, 1961, Ireland forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry, Commerce, and Tour- ism if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture if they are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. 210 Prescription of Currency The adm in is tra t ion of Irish exchange control is based on the distinction between entities that are permanently resident in Ireland and nonresidents, i.e., residents of other countries. The latter comprises three categories: ( 1) residents of EC member countries, (2) residents of Rhodesia,1 and (3) residents of all other countries. Authorized payments may be made in Irish pounds or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of nonresidents are desig- nated External Accounts. All credits in excess of Ir <£ 50,000 to External Accounts held by nonbanks requ ire specific approval by the Central Bank, except where the credit is in respect of imports into Ireland. There are also limits on max imum balances in External Accounts of nonresident banks; these may be main- ta ined w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank. Exter- nal Accounts may be credited with payments that are eligible for transfer abroad under a general or specific exchange control approval, transfers from other External Accounts, payments for any foreign currencies pur- chased from account holders, the proceeds of Irish cu r rency notes in denominations not exceeding Ir £20, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for transfers to residents, transfers to other External Accounts, the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the transfer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. Authorized banks may operate foreign currency accounts in the names of nonresidents in any foreign currency; these accounts are subject to the same require- ments as External Accounts. Authorized banks may also operate foreign currency accounts in the names of residents under specific Central Bank approval. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rho- desia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank.1 imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia require a special license.1 The import from other sources l Payments by Irish residents to Rhodesia, to the accounts of Rhodesian residents w i th Irish banks, and for settlement of trade transactions invo lv ing Rhodesia and of financial transactions involving Rhodesian dollars are subject to separate regulations. All such trans- ac t ions and other transactions (e.g., for travel or em ig ra t ion) involving Rhodes ia or Rhodesian residents must be referred to the Central Bank. These regulations concerning relations w i th Rhodesia were revoked on Janua ry 10, 1980, following the withdrawal of sanctions against Rhodesia by the Irish Government. The effect of this was to place transactions with Rhodesia, or in Rhodesian currency, in the same position, from an exchange control point of view, as transactions with non-EC countries generally. Other t rade restrictions were revoked with effect from Janua ry 29, 1980. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of certain goods into Ireland is subject to four types of adm in is t ra t ive control, as follows: Quantitative Restrictions. Special quota restrictions apply to ( 1) bicycle tires from countries other than member coun tr ies of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and Japan; (2) certain textile products o r ig ina t ing in the state trad ing coun- tries; (3) automobile tires f rom the German Demo- cra t ic Repub l ic; (4) footwear f rom Czechoslovakia; and (5) cer ta in sacks and bags other than of wool, cotton, and man-made fibers (m a i n ly ju te bags o r ig in a t ing in Hong Kong, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pak is tan, and Yugoslavia). Voluntary Restraint. The EC has negotiated bilateral restraint agreements with various supplying countries on trade in textiles under which import quotas are set each year for d i f fe rent products. Ire land has a vo lun ta ry restraint agreement w i th Poland in regard to certain footwear. Surveillance. Ireland operates a na t ional system of import surveillance over certain footwear from all sources and for imports of certain clothing, textiles, and tw ine and cordage f rom non-EC sources. Prior Permission. Under this type of control, p r ior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than n ine months after the date of the order. Goods not for use in Ire- land must in general be paid for with borrowed foreign currency. Special import restrictions apply in regard to motor vehicles. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permission to credit Irish pounds to an External Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are required for impo rt paymen ts exceeding Ir <£ 10,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel there is a basic allowance for resi- dents of Ire land of Ir £500 a person for each t r ip, or where the t r ip exceeds two months, Ir £2,000. For business travel, up to Ir <£3,000 at a rate of Ir £100 a day is allowed for each journey. Limits are also estab- lished for allowances for education and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than Ir £500 of an allowance of foreign currency IRELAND may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take w i th them up to Ir £ 100 in Irish cur- rency notes. Nonresidents may take with them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited except under license (see footnote 1). Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods within six mon ths of sh ipmen t, if their v a lue exceeds Ir £100. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding Ir £10,000, and must be produced to Irish customs at the point of exportation. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized b ank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any fore ign currency held by a person after his return f rom a t r ip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months from the date he received the exchange. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all trans- fers of capital to nonresidents. Authority to make cer- t a in payments has been delegated to authorized dealers; other payments require Central Bank approval. The normal allowance available to Irish residents on emi- gra t ion is Ir £40,000 for each fam i ly. Where the total va lue of an em igran t's assets exceeds Ir £40,000, the t rans fer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years f rom the emigrant's redesignation as a nonres iden t, i.e., f rom the date of departure f rom Ire- land. A f t er the four-year period, the balance of restricted assets may be freely exported without limit. For Irish residents tak ing up permanent residence in an EC coun try, inc lud ing people taking up employment, app l ica t ions to transfer Irish assets to the new country of residence in excess of the normal allowances are considered. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but inward direct investment requires exchange control approval. Purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. The Central Bank considers applications by Irish residents for permission to purchase property for per- sonal use in a member country of the EC with foreign 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND cu r r en cy purchased at the official rate of exchange. The acqu i s i t ion of personal proper ty ou ts ide the EC may be financed on ly by fore ign currency borrowing, which is approved by the Central Bank on app l ica t ion, sub ject to a l im it of Ir £20,000 a p rope r ty and one property for each f am i ly u n i t. Borrowings may be repaid w i th off ic ial fo re ign exchange in equal a n n u al in s t a l lm en ts over a period of not less t h an five years. The en t i re fore ign cu r r en cy proceeds f rom the sale of p rope r ty ou ts ide I re land purchased for personal use of a res ident must be offered for sale to an au tho r ized dealer. Transac t ions in fo r e ign cu r rency securities are con- t ro l led to e n s u re th a t, in gene ra l, c a p i t al is not t r an s- ferred outside I re land. All such t ransac t ions must be routed th rough an approved agent (an Ir ish b a n k, stockbroker, or so l ic i tor). Resident holdings of all for- eign currency securities may be sold only to nonresi- dents. Where such securities are sold, the proceeds must either be reinvested in foreign securities or be offered for sale to an authorized dealer w i th in three months. Du r ing that three-month period, in the absence of the specific approval of the Central Bank, the pro- ceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. Purchases of foreign currency securities, apart f rom switches referred to above, are prohibited. The Central Bank may, however, approve applications by authorized insurers and pension funds for the export of a limited amount of f u n ds at the cu r rent rate of exchange for investment in foreign currency securities. Foreign currency borrowing by institutional investors and professional portfolio managers for portfolio invest- ment abroad may also be approved in some cases. The Central Bank w i ll grant permission for investment at the current rate of exchange in securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel C omm u n i t y, and the Eu ropean A t om ic Ene rgy Community. Direct inves tment abroad requires pr ior approval and may norma l ly be financed by borrow ing foreign cur- rency; in ce r ta in cases the use of o f f ic ial exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct inves tmen ts by Ir ish res iden ts in EC member countries. Purchases by nonres iden ts of Irish registered securi- ties must be funded with foreign currency or Irish pounds from an External Account; purchases in excess of Ir £5,000 must be no t i f ied to the Central Bank. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are no rm a l ly permitted up to Ir £1,500 a donor a cal- endar year. For dependents, an additional amount of up to Ir £2,000 a donor a year in cash g i f ts or per- sonal loans may be remitted. App l ica t ions by Irish residents to make cash g i f ts to EC residents, in excess of the normal allowance, are considered. Residents require prior exchange control approval 212 ( 1) to accept loans f rom nonresidents, irrespective of the cu r r en cy of such loans, and (2) to accept loans in fore ign currency f rom any source; such applications are considered on their mer i ts and, except as regards bo r row ing for the acqu i s i t ion of property for personal use, on the bene f it l i k e ly to accrue to the economy. P u b l ic sector b o r r ow i ng f r om non re s iden ts is unde r taken f o l l o w i ng c o n s u l t a t i on w i th t he C en t r al Bank. Lend ing of I r i sh c u r r e n cy to non r e s id en ts is not no rma l ly per- m i t t e d, except to the ex t ent t h at o v e r d r a ft f a c i l i t i es may be p rov ided by the b anks to members of d ip loma t ic and c o n s u l ar m iss ions in I r e l and. Provided that the c om p a ny is not a c h a n n el for po r t fo l io inves tmen t, a s u b s i d i a ry or b r an ch of a company controlled directly by in te re s ts in EC coun t r ies may ob ta in f rom Irish b a n k s, sub ject to exchange con trol approval, a ll the f inance it requires for i ts ope ra t ion in Ire land. Gold Residents may f ree ly hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coin in Ire land. Dea l ings in gold b u l l i on are res tr ic ted, and no dea l ings take place in Ire land. A l though there are no impo rt restrictions, residents r equ i re spec if ic exchange con trol permission to pu r- chase gold coin or b u l l i on ou ts ide Ireland. Specific exchange control perm iss ion also is required for the expo rt of gold coin and b u l l i on outside Ire land. Specific pe rm iss ion to buy or export gold coin or bu l l ion nor- m a l ly is given on ly for bona f ide n um i sm a t ic or indus- t r i al purposes, respectively. Residents of Ireland are not pe rm i t ted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1979 January 22. The C en t r al Bank issued a notice elabo- r a t i ng on the measures in t roduced on December 18, 1978 in connec t ion w i th Ire land's pa r t ic ipa t ion in the Eu ropean Mone ta ry System, and also in t roduc ing the fo l low ing re laxa t ions in con trol provisions: (1) prior Cen tral Bank approval was no longer required where a non re s ident account was being credited w i th an am o u nt in excess of Ir £50,000, provided the credit arose f rom payments for imports or related services; (2) l e n d i ng of a personal na tu re by authorized dealers to res iden ts of No r the rn Ire land was allowed, w i thout reference to the Cen tral Bank, up to a total amount of Ir £5,000 a person; ( 3) Irish res iden ts could buy from non re s iden ts Ir ish secur i t ies (denom ina ted in Irish p o u n d s) quoted on a U.K. stock exchange; (4) Irish res iden ts could deal in named Ir ish securities payable or o p t i o n a l ly payable in s te r l ing; and (5) the obligation to m a rk passports in respect of the provisions of foreign travel allowance was e l im ina ted irrespective of the coun try of destination. March 13. Ireland's pa r t ic ipa t ion in the exchange rate and in te rven t ion mechanism of the EMS became effective. F luc tua t ions of the Irish pound against the other pa r t ic ipa t ing currencies were l im i ted to plus or m inus 2.25 per cent of bilateral cross parities (plus or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution m i n us 6 per cent aga inst the I t a l i an l i r a ). However, it was announ c ed th at the practice of m a i n t a i n i ng the p a r i ty re la t ion sh ip between the I r i sh pound and the pound s te r l ing wou ld be con t inued for as long as such an a r rangement was consistent w i th the ob l iga t ions of par t ic ipa t ion in the EMS. March 30. The one-for-one pa r i ty w i th the pound s te r l ing was d iscon t inued. It was announced that the pound s ter l ing wou ld hencefor th be traded in the same way as other fo re ign currencies. March 30. A 50 per cent deposit requ i rement on the inf low of capital th rough banks was suspended. August 7. The amount above which p r ior Cen t ral Bank approval for forward cover was requ ired was raised f rom Ir <£ 50,000 to Ir £100,000. September 4. Insu rance companies and pension f u n ds were allowed to use foreign currency to an extent su f- ficient to b r ing their ho ld ings of fore ign currency securi- ties up to 10 per cent of the ir net actuarial l iab i l i t ies. Professional portfolio managers were allowed to acqu ire foreign currency securities with borrowed fore ign currency. IRELAND October 24. All exchange control distinctions between U .K. residents and other nonres iden ts were abolished fo l low ing the removal of exchange con tro ls by the U.K. au tho r i t ies (apa rt f rom those re la t ing to t ran sac t ions w i th R h o d e s i a ). Hence fo r th (1) a ll trans- actions by residents i n v o l v i ng s te r l ing wou ld be subject to the ru les gove rn ing transactions in any other fore ign cu r r en cy; (2) a ll transac t ions ( in any cu r rency) involv- ing p aym en ts or other t ran s fe rs of assets by residents to U.K. residents wou ld be subject to the rules govern- ing such paymen ts or t r an s f e rs to residents of other EC countries; and (3) assets held in Ireland by U.K. residents could be converted in to any foreign currency or t ran s fe r red to other nonresidents on the same basis as the assets of any other nonresidents. December 1. It was announced that applications to use fo re ign cu r rency at the cu r rent rate of exchange for purchases of securities issued by the EC, the European Inves tment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Com- mun i ty, and the European A tom ic Energy Commun i ty would be approved. Sale proceeds of such securities could on ly be used for the purchase of s im i lar securities or be converted to Irish pounds through an authorized dealer. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Israel is the Israel Pound.1 The authorities do not m a in t a in margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange markets. However, the author- ities intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluctuations in rates in order to ma in ta in orderly con- d i t ions in the market. Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange with residents and with their correspondents in foreign markets. At the end of the trad ing day the Bank of Israel publishes an average of the quotations of the day as a representative rate. On December 31, 1979 the representative rate for the U.S. dollar was I £35.3495 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Control- ler of Foreign Exchange and is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other government agencies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign cur- rency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account. He may also convert funds held on the account into local cur- rency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a non- resident of a local currency account and on the local use of such funds, inc lud ing transfers between nonresi- dents. Nonresident holders of local currency may con- vert at the market rate of exchange up to US$3,000 for each visit to Israel, which may be transferred abroad, together with an amount of local currency not exceed- ing I £5,000. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred in their entirety if the original investment was made w i th foreign currency or State of Israel Development Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may ma in ta in foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either (1) PATAM 1 With effect from February 22, 1980 Israel established a new national currency, the shekel, to replace the Israel pound at the rate of IS 1 = I£10. 214 accounts, which may be held by all recipients of foreign exchange or foreign currency acquired from a bank or (2) PATAM-Res t i tu t ion accounts, which may be held by recipients of restitution payments and certain disability pensions. PATAM accounts are demand or time deposit accounts in fore ign currency placed with authorized banks, which must redeposit, respectively, 90 per cent or 80 per cent of the foreign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Balances in these accounts are transferab le between residents and may be used to pay for any bona fide in te rna t ional current transaction. PATAM-Res t i tu t ion accounts also are demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with author- ized banks, wh ich must redeposit all of these foreign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Funds deposited in restitution accounts are free of taxation. PATAM- Restitution accounts are permitted to be used for pay- ment of expenses in connection with travel and subsist- ence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allo- cation. Holders of PATAM-Restitution accounts may resell securities bought with funds in such accounts for fore ign currency and may deposit the proceeds in a PATAM-Res t i tu t ion account. Residents who are not hold- ers of PATAM-Res t i tu t ion accounts may deposit the for- eign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securi- ties in PATAM accounts. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources, and all impor ts from Rhodesia are prohibited. Almost all impor ts are free of licensing and administrative or quan t i ta t ive restrictions. A few imports on a Restricted List are subject to approval; this list includes some meat and da iry products, sugar, and tobacco. Oilseeds are imported exclusively by or for account of the Govern- ment. Exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted au toma t ica l ly by the banks upon presentation of proof of the import transaction. A value-added tax is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods, other than capital goods and travel tickets. From November 1979 for six months, all taxable imports are subject to a 10 per cent advance import deposit require- ment. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments abroad on account of invisi- bles is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$3,000 a traveler for each journey. Foreign currency drawings by means of credit cards are included in this allowance. Resident travelers may take out part or all of the travel allowance in Israel banknotes. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers foreign currency up to US$3,000 and may, also, take out up to I £5,000 in Israel banknotes. This is in addi- tion to the repurchase of foreign currency brought in by the nonresident traveler. Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israel currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for quality control. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held in a PATAM account. Exporters may retain in a deposit account abroad, or in a special exporter account in Israel, an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in for- eign exchange in PATAM accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 20 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There are no limits to the amounts of Israel banknotes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of loan and equity capital may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treat- ment in accordance with the Law for the Encourage- ment of Capital Investment, which grants a limited with- holding tax of 25 per cent on income resulting from these investments. Approved investments (loan and equity) are granted exemption from the compulsory deposit requirement and negative interest rate. Approv- als granted under the law are classified as "approved enterprises," "approved investments," or "approved loans." Approved enterprise status is granted to enter- prises in selected fields of production that are (1) in the fields of industry, tourism, transportation, and agri- culture; (2) established in priority areas; or (3) export oriented or in the field of import substitution in some specific lines of production. Approved investment or approved loan status may be granted to any enterprise in the above-mentioned sectors; however, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period of the loan should not be less than seven years and the rate of ISRAEL interest not more than 9 per cent. Beginning in Decem- ber 1978 a series of measures were adopted restricting the right of residents to receive credits in foreign cur- rency. From November 1979 for three months, a total freeze is in effect on all foreign currency credits. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in foreign currency. Residents are not nor- mally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or the income from these assets. Resident exporters and airline and shipping companies may main- tain foreign bank accounts. In addition, residents trav- eling abroad may maintain limited sums in foreign accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 20 years. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. A general license allows nonresidents to purchase in Israel real estate, shares, and debentures. In order to repatriate the principal or profits on these investments, proof is required by an authorized dealer that they were purchased with foreign currency. Direct loans in any form to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Gold Under the regulations concerning the purchase, sale, and holding of gold, there are four categories of gold for various purposes, as follows: (1) Bullion for indus- try may be imported by an importer holding an import license. (2) Bullion for investment, or certificates con- ferr ing a right to gold bullion, may be bought or sold through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer. (3) Coins for investment are (a) Krugerrands of South Africa; (b) 50 dollar Maple leafs of Canada; (c) 50 pesos of Mexico; (d) 100 corona of Austria; and (e) sovereigns of Great Britain, bearing the likeness of Queen Eliza- beth II. These coins may be bought or sold through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer. (4) Other gold coin not specified under ( 3) may be bought, sold, or held by an Israeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same manner as other goods. Changes during 1979 February 9. The Bank of Israel issued an order pre- venting Israel companies and individuals from taking short-term or medium-term credits of less than two and a half years in foreign currencies. The order was valid for 60 days. It did not apply to suppliers' credits for the financing of imports. February 19. The Bank of Israel imposed a total ban on foreign currency loans to Israel companies and individuals. April 1. The ban on capital inputs by residents was lifted and was replaced by a system of controls on for- eign currency transactions for capital purposes. The 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL controls took the form of supplementary interest pay- ments, at an annual rate of 12 per cent, on all borrowing by resident commercial banks from nonresident entities and of a compulsory deposit with the Bank of Israel in U.S. dollars of 30 per cent of all such borrowings by nonbank residents; the deposits would incur a negative interest rate of 17 per cent a year. November 20. As part of a series of stabilization measures, the Government announced a total freeze on foreign currency credits effective for 90 days and the imposition of a 10 per cent advance import deposit requirement on taxable imports to be in effect for six months. December 27. New regulations were announced for the purchase, sale, and holding of gold. Four categories of gold were established, gold bullion for industry, gold bu l l ion for investment, specified gold coins for invest- ment, and other unspecified gold coin. 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Italy is the Italian L ira. Italy par- ticipates w i th Belgium, Denma rk, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance w i th this agreement, Italy ma in ta ins spot exchange rates between the I ta l ian l ira and the curren- cies of the other participants w i th in marg ins of 6 per cent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1979 these rates were Specified In terven t ion Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Irish pounds 100 Ne ther lands gu i lders Italian Lire Upper l im it Lower l im it 3,089.61 15.917.1 49,528.7 21.025.2 183,978.0 44,807.4 2,740.44 14,118.2 43,931.2 18,649.0 163,185.0 39,743.4 The participants in the EMS are not m a i n t a i n i ng the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper fun c t ion ing of the system, they in tervene in concert to smooth out fluc- tuations in exchange rates, the in t e rv en t ion currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Official rates for 16 foreign currencies1 are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.2 On December 31, 1979 the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 804.00 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. D ifferent exchange rates arise for outward transfers of resident-owned capital, for the large majority of which a deposit in lire of 50 per cent must be lodged with the Bank of Italy. The mone- tary authorities do not, in principle, intervene in the forward exchange marke t; forward p rem iums and dis- counts are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in ma jor con- currencies officially quoted are Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 The official rate is the average of the "f ix ing" quo ta t ions of the foreign exchange markets in Milan and Rome. vertible and externally convertible currencies,3 when dea l ing w i th other banks, or up to 180 days when deal- ing w i th nonbanks. Forward cover is freely permitted on ly for commercial transactions; cover in respect of f inanc ial transactions requires authorization. Public corporations which have been instructed to borrow abroad on behalf of the Batik of Italy receive fu ll for- ward cover for their debt service payments. Italy fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the I ta l ian Exchange Office (U f f ic io Italiano dei Cambi or UIC) on the basis of instructions issued by the M in is try of For- eign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when requ ired, are issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance at the request of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Ins t i tu te. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the pr ior approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and are sub ject in addition to the rules governing the issuing of I ta l ian securities in Italy. Payments to and from the Republic of San Ma r ino or Va t ican City are not sub- ject to exchange control. The net external pos i t ion of the banks is subject to control by the UIC. This control encompasses ( 1) the spot position vis-a-vis nonres iden ts in fore ign currencies and l ire together; and (2) the overall position, spot and fo rwa rd combined, in all fore ign currencies; a balanced fo re ign cu r rency position on a da i ly basis is required separately in (a) U.S. dollars, (b) EC currencies, and (c) all other conto valutario currencies combined. Au thor ized banks are not subject to any ce i l ing on the ir net fo re ign l i ab i l i ty position but are prohibited f rom m a i n t a i n i ng a net fo re ign asset position; in add i t ion, ou t s tand ing net fo rwa rd transactions against lire are subject to a ceiling set ind iv idu a l ly for each bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th fore ign countries must no rma l ly be made in convertible currencies or in l ire on Foreign Accounts. For settlements w i th Egypt, there are special a r rangemen ts und er a debt l iqu ida t ion agreement. Nonresident Accounts The m a in types of accoun ts in I t a l i an l i re which non- residents are allowed to m a i n t a in w i th authorized banks •'These currencies are re fe r red to in the I ta l ian regu la t ions as the conto valutario currencies. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• ITALY are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts.4 The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain inves tmen ts, is described below. Foreign Accounts may be credited w i th transfers f r om other Foreign Accounts, f r om Capital Accounts, and from Special Accoun ts Under Law No. 43, w i th l i re f rom authorized cu r r ent and capital payments, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of conver t ib le currencies.5 They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the o rd ina ry market, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account for payments to residents of Italy for cu r rent and capital transactions, for payments due to residents on account of the ir disinvestments abroad, and for draw ings in cash by the holder of the account or his nominee. Capital Accounts may be credited w i th transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, f rom Special Accounts, and from other Capital Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom the l iqu id a t ion of foreign inves tmen ts in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 or Law No. 43 (see be low ). Capital Accoun ts may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, and for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43, inc lud ing purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 7956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accordance w i th the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited w i th the coun terva lue of convertible currencies sold in Italy, with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, or f rom other Special Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of investments that have been made in accordance w i th Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was o r ig ina l ly sold and for inves tmen ts in Italy, and balances may be t rans fe r red to Foreign Accounts, Cap i tal Accounts, or any other Special Account. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts are governed by a M in is te r ial Decree of May 6, 1976. The impo rt regu la t ions va ry w i th the coun t ry of o r ig in. Coun t r ies are grouped in three m a jor areas: Zone A, which is subdivided in to subzones A /1 (EC countries, Guadeloupe, French Gu i an a, Ma r t in ique, 4 I ta l ians l iv ing or wo rk ing abroad are permitted to m a i n t a in w i th I ta l ian banks Em igran ts' Foreign Cu r rency Accoun ts denom ina ted in conto valuiario currenc ies. They may be credited w i th rem i t tances ( in c lud ing banknotes) sent direct to the bank f rom abroad (up to 80 per cent of the holder's wage or salary ea rn ings) and w i th interest on the ba lance; they may be debited f ree ly for convers ion in to l i r e, for w i thd rawa ls in fo re ign bankno tes (up to Lit 100,000, for r e tu rn t r ips a b r o a d ), and for t ran s fe rs abroad (except for accounts held by "border-area wo rke rs" ). These accounts may also be held by I ta l ian representatives abroad and by I ta l ian s taff employed by in te rna t ional organizations. r> The banks' power to credit fore ign bankno tes and credit ins tru- men ts expressed in fore ign currency w i thout pr ior au tho r iza t ion is l im i ted to Lit 1 million in a calendar year for bankno tes and cred it in s t rum en ts not rem i t ted to the banks direct f rom abroad. 218 and R e u n i o n ), A/2 (overseas countries and territories, member countries of the European Free Trade Associa- t ion, and other countries associated with the EC), and A /3 ( th ird coun t r ies ); Zone B, which comprises mem- ber countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), A lban ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, and Nor th Korea; and Zone C ( J a p a n ). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be freely imported without quantitative restric- t ion and goods that require a special license. Import l ibera l iza t ion is v i r tua l ly complete for subzones A /1 and A / 2, wh i le very few quantitative restrictions remain for subzone A / 3. Many types of goods from Zones B and C are heavily restricted. For imports from countries in Zone B, as well as Egypt and Yugoslavia, the country of origin must also be the country of shipment. All impo r ts of Rhodesian origin are prohibited.6 Imports f rom non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EC regula- t ions are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 mil- lion in va lue an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. Where settlement takes place more than 360 days after importation, the impor ter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments operations. Deferred paymen ts for imports are permitted f ree ly if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, w i th in 360 days af ter importation, and the ba lance w i th in 24 months a f ter importation; such paymen ts requ ire the prior approval of the UIC if the se t t lement is to take place between 12 months and 24 mon ths a f ter impo r ta t ion. In all other cases, the p r ior approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade is requ i red; where, according to the contract, settlement is to take place more than 360 days af ter the date of impo r ta t ion, the approval of the UIC (in some cases the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade) is required to make the payment pr ior to the due date set in the contract. Advance paymen ts for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 120 days before impo r ta t ion. Advance payments in excess of Lit 2 mil- l ion mu st be made w i th fo re ign currency borrowed from au thor ized banks. When prepaymen ts for imports exceed Lit 10 m i l l i o n, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is requ i red. For all authorized impor ts, the authorized banks pro- vide exchange or permit payment in I ta l ian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropriate payment "W i th effect f rom J a n u a ry 6, 1980 all restrictions on visible and invisible transactions w i th Rhodesia were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution terms are observed (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ). In te rna t ional postal money orders may be used for import payments, subject, in the case of paymen ts to Switzerland, to a l im it of Lit 30,000 for each remitter and foreign benef ic iary. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for inv is ib les requ i re au thor iza t ion by the exchange control au thor i t ies. How- ever, the authorized banks may sell fore ign exchange for payments for invisibles provided that the necessary documents are submitted, except for tourist travel and travel for business, study, or health reasons; their au thor i ty to sell exchange for f am i ly remittances is limited to Lit 35,000 a transfer. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earn ings or investments. Resi- dents may use in terna t ional postal money orders for payments, subject, in the case of payments to Switzer- land, to a limit of Lit 30,000 for each rem i t ter and foreign beneficiary. Certain transactions (but not the related paymen ts) in respect of services are subject to approval by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade or the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry. These transactions can be divided in to two groups: (1) contracts which require a permit if they involve residents of specified countries7 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the na t iona l i ty of the non- residents involved. The first group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for chartering ships (exclud- ing charters for a single t r i p ); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspondents ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion a month for the same payee); purchases of publication rights; in fo rma t ion agencies, etc. ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion for each con trac t); copyrights ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year for each con trac t); services of pro- fessional workers and company managers ( f or amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion ); and services of entertainers and athletes ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion ). The second group includes transactions g iv ing rise to expen- ditures for production abroad of films, u t i l iza t ion of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in cinematography; insurance of ships and a i rc ra ft against risks of operation;8 and other transactions when the amounts involved exceed Lit 1 million. Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 750,000 a person a year for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education (the corresponding amount for group travel also is Lit 750,000); authorized banks grant foreign exchange above these allowances (except for t o u r i sm ), provided that they are satisfied that this is 7 Albania, Bhu tan, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China ( inc lud ing Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Democratic Kampuchea, Nor th Korea, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, and ( for chartering ships on ly) Yugoslavia. b Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Indu s t ry. ITALY ju s t i f ied in view of the du r a t ion and purpose of the t r ip. The amount that may be taken out in the form of fore ign bankno tes is Lit 100,000, wh i le up to Lit 650,000 may be taken out in letters of credit, foreign payment orders, travelers checks, or non t rans fe rab le checks d r awn on fore ign banks. The l im it on the amount of I t a l i an bankno tes that can be taken out is Lit 100,000.° Non re s ident travelers may take out any amount in for- eign bankno tes that they have previously declared upon en try, subject to a l im it of the equ iva lent of Lit 200,000 a person if an oral declaration is made, as well as Lit 100,000 in I ta l ian banknotes. However, the export of I ta l ian banknotes in denom ina t ions larger than Lit 50,000 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 m i l l ion in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 1 m i l l ion to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 2 m i l l ion in va lue, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. If settlement takes plage more than 360 days before exportation or more than 120 days a f t er exportation, the exporter must effect the payments operations related to his export transactions through an au thor ized bank as his bank of domicile. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place w i th in 360 days; in all other cases such receipts requ i re the prior approval of the UIC. Deferred payments for exports are permitted if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least 90 per cent w i th in 120 days af ter exportation, and the balance w i th in 24 months. For settlements between 120 and 360 days a f ter exportation, the approval of the UIC is required. In alt other cases such receipts require the prior approval either of the M in is try of Foreign Trade or of the Au tonomous Section for Export Credits ( SAC E ), depending on whether the max imum delay granted to the foreign impor ter is longer or shorter than seven years, and on whether the transac t ion will be covered by state insurance. Unless special approval is obtained for d i f fe rent terms of payment, 90 per cent of exchange receipts must be collected w i th in 120 days of shipment and offered for sale to an authorized bank within 7 days of receipt, wh i le 10 per cent must be collected w i th in 24 months of sh ipmen t. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convertible European cur- rencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in O rd ina ry Foreign Currency Accounts (Conti Valutari Ordinari) for 15 days, d u r i ng which period such balances may be used for permitted trans- " Persons l iv ing in border areas may not take out more than Lit 35,000 a day in fo re ign and domestic bankno tes and coin combined, of wh ich fo re ign notes and coin must not exceed the equ iva lent of Lit 15,000. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY actions or be sold to au thor ized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these cu r renc ies to residents for au tho r- ized t ransac t ions or to negotiate them free ly w i th the UIC or among themselves. A f t er exp i ra t ion of the re ten t ion period, unused balances must be sold to the UIC at the lowest exchange rate quoted d u r i ng the retention period (these rates are de term ined da i ly on the basis of the average closing rates in M i lan and Rom e ). Export proceeds may also be received by in te rna t ional postal money order, up to Lit 600,000 for each paymen t, and in certain circumstances, in fo re ign bankno tes that are accepted in the coun t ry of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in wh ich are convertible at off ic ial market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom current inv i s ib les are subject to the same collection, re ten t ion, and su r render requ i remen ts as receipts f rom exports. Sh ipp ing and in su rance com- panies and travel and fo rwa rd ing agencies may keep Operating Accounts (Conti Autorizzati) in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and ex terna l ly con- vertible European currencies; unu t i l i z ed balances must be surrendered periodically. Residents may not re ta in foreign bankno tes le ft over f rom tr ips abroad but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may b r ing in any amount in fore ign bankno tes and Lit 100,000 in I ta l ian banknotes, in denom ina t ions not larger than Lit 50,000. Capital Inward and ou twa rd movemen ts of nonres ident cap i tal are free, but loans of any k ind f rom nonres iden ts to residents and from residents to nonres iden ts requ i re specific au thor iza t ion f rom the M i n i s t ry of the Treasury or the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade, respectively; however, as exceptions, long-term loans (other than loans f rom f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns to non re s iden t s) f rom member coun tr ies of the O rgan iza t ion for Economic Coopera- t ion and Development (OECD) for establishing or m a i n t a i n i ng l a s t ing economic re la t ions, and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship do not requ i re au tho r iza t ion. Short-term loans (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 m i l l i o n) and med ium- term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 m i l- l i o n) f inanc ial loans (i.e., loans not connected w i th commercial operations or the pe r fo rmance of services) f rom EC coun tr ies also do not requ i re au tho r iza t ion. R ep aym ent of such loans may be made free ly. A deposit requ i rement applies to ou tward t rans fe rs of resident-owned capital for direct investments, po r t fo l io inves tmen ts, financial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The t rans fe ror must lodge a l i ra deposit equ iva lent to 50 per cent of the amount t ran s fe r red (25 per cent for inves tment f u nd securities, but mu tu al f u n ds inves t ing entirely in I ta l ian securities are exempt) in a non in teres t-bear ing account w i th the bank e f fec t ing the transfer. In addition, when fore ign 220 inves tmen ts are t rans fe r red between residents against l i re, the t rans fe ree is subject to the deposit requirement, regardless of the date when the inves tment was made. The deposits are released on ly when, arid to the extent t h a t, d i s inv e s tm ent opera t ions occur, and the ir release requ ires the prior approval of the Bank of Italy. Rein- ves tmen ts of funds in new issues or on the secondary ma rket are exempt if the original investment was made p r ior to Ju ly 27, 1973. Purchases by residents of certain bonds issued by specified EC in s t i tu t ions are also exempt. Ou twa rd direct inves tment transactions have from t ime to t ime been given an ad hoc exemption. Foreign inves tment in I ta ly is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 and subsequent imp lemen t ing regula- t ions. Foreign investments of any k ind, inc lud ing both d irect and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are permitted freely, and no restrictions are app l ied to the ir repatriation. Direct inves tment in OECD coun tr ies by physical or ju r id ical persons (other than participation by a financial i n s t i t u t i on that has i ts m a in office in I ta ly in a foreign comp any not h av ing the same corporate purpose) is pe rm i t ted in any fo rm and w i thout any l im i t .10 Direct inv e s tm ent in other countries may be made only by ju r id i c al persons in firms that are in the same l ine of business as that of the I ta l ian firm m ak ing the investment and under the superv is ion of the UIC; other types of direct inves tment in such coun t r ies require special au thor iza t ion f rom the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the l i q u i d a t i on proceeds of previous investments ( a f t er c r ed i t ing the proceeds of the disinvestment to b a nk accoun ts s im i l ar to those established for proceeds f rom exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds f r om Inv is ib les, above ). Res iden ts are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of I ta ly or the au thor ized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among them- selves aga inst payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited w i th an I t a l i an bank or w i th a bank abroad for account of an I ta l ian bank. The purchase by residents of shares of fore ign financial institutions of any kind ( i n c l u d i ng mu tu al f u n d s ), as well as convertible bonds issued by such ins t i tu t ions, requires prior approval by the UIC. In practice, however, a resident is able to purchase f ree ly shares of foreign funds that have received au tho r iza t ion from the M in is try of Foreign Trade to sell the ir shares in Italy, since that authoriza- t ion is valid also for the ind iv idual resident subscriber. Such au tho r iza t ion is given only to f u n ds meeting certain requ i remen ts, in c lud ing the investment of at least 1(1 F inanc ial inves tmen t, i.e., investment not intended to establish permanent relations, is not considered direct investment. The regula- t ions govern ing direct investment are also not applicable to participa- tions in "holdings" abroad of any k ind. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 per cent of the ir po r t fo l io in I ta l ian securities and the es tab l ishment of a b ranch office in I ta ly. Residents do not requ ire au tho r iza t ion to purchase real estate in EC coun tr ies. All issues of securities by non res iden ts on the I ta l ian capital ma rket requ i re the p r ior approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade and are subject to the ru les gove rn ing the issue of domestic securities. These rules include the pr ior approval of the Bank of I ta ly and, for issues above Lit 500 m i l l ion, that of the M in i s t ry of the Treasury, the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry, and the In t e rm in i s- te r ial Credit Committee. Issues are no rma l ly restricted to in te rna t ional ins t i tu t ions. Transfers in connection w i th donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made free ly. The t rans fer of prop- erty of residents leaving I ta ly permanen t ly is allowed in two stages: the equ iva lent of Lit 5 m i l l i on a person is allowed upon presentation of specified documents to an authorized bank at the t ime of leav ing Italy, and the rema inder is subject to exam ina t ion of the documents by the UIC, when residence has been established abroad. In relations w i th EC countries, the reciprocal g r an t ing of cred i ts for commercial transac t ions or the pe r fo rm- ance of services, w i th a m a tu r i ty longer than the t ime l im i ts that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected a f ter exam ina t ion of the documents by the UIC. This applies also in relations w i th Austria, F in land, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected w i th commercial transactions or w i th the performance of services require the approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and are severely restricted. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EC countries as indicated above. ITALY The export of Italian and foreign securities is per- m i t ted only when they are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian do l la rs, Japanese yen, or ex terna l ly convertible Euro- pean currencies, or against f u n ds on a Foreign Account or a Cap i tal Account. Gold Residents may f ree ly hold and negotiate gold in any f o rm in Italy, w i th the exception of unrefined gold impor ted und er m in i s te r ial license for indus t r ial purposes. The mone ta ry au thor i t ies may freely acquire unref ined gold abroad. Agent banks may acquire unrefined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for industrial use. Exports of wrought and sem imanufac tured gold, other than jewelry, are subject to licensing. Imports of un re f ined gold are, in pr inc ip le, subject to value- added tax but at the end of 1979 the rate of tax was zero per cen t. Impo r ta t ion and exportation of gold coins that are legal tender in a fore ign coun try are prohibited in the absence of a special au thor iza t ion. Imports of other gold coins for num i sm a t ic purposes are subject to va lue -added tax at 18 per cent. Changes during 1979 March 9. Unu t i l ized balances held on operating accounts could henceforth be surrendered w i th in six months, instead of immediately. March 13. Italy's par t ic ipa t ion in the exchange rate and in te rven t ion mechanism of the EMS became effective. December 30. Decree-Law No. 675 removed, with effect f rom Janua ry 6, 1980, all restrictions on visible and inv is ib le transactions with Rhodesia. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ivory Coast is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a com- mission of 0.10 per m i ll on transfers from countries out- side the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, and one of 2.50 per m i ll on transfers to such countries.2 Banks and the postal system also levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Ivory Coast's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Financing in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any informa t ion necessary to compile the balance of pay- ments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion, and notaries public. All exchange transactions re la t ing to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments w i th The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through 1The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 222 the West Afr ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements w i th Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to the ir foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Those from Portugal may be made freely, although the official regulation l i f t i ng the restrictions has not yet been adopted. Imports from the People's Repub- lic of China and the U.S.S.R. are made on a barter basis or as compensation transactions. Certain imports are prohibited (e.g., a specified type of coffee-husking mach ine and wheat flour) or are subject to import license or prior authorization (e.g., paints, matches, and detergents). Imports of rice depend on domestic pro- duc t ion since they are intended as a supplementary means of satisfying domestic demand. These imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid. All other imports may be made freely from any country, subject only to the submission of a declaration of in tent to import. However, ta r i f fs have been raised for certain goods that compete with local production and, in the case of some goods, have been supplemented by quotas. Special ceilings have been set for selected imports from certain countries having low production costs w i th which the trade balance has been consistently in large deficit. These quotas and ceilings are reviewed annua l ly. With minor exceptions, imports by sea or air, when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, are subject to preshipment inspection by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva, in order to control their price, quan t i ty, and quality. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value must be domiciled if a financial transaction is to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than one month before shipment, if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely, at any time, through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without submitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten). For busi- ness travel a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO banknotes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other coun- tries of the former French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any travelers checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documentation, they may also take out any amount of travelers checks, etc., in foreign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs, or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper bank ing notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of processed and unpro- IVORY COAST cessed agricultural commodities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of External Trade. The due date for payment in respect of exports to foreign coun- tries must be not later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of a country of the former French Franc Area, must be surrendered on the exchange market w i th in two months of the due date. All export trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Oper- ations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the former French Franc Area; residents b r ing ing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declaration to the customs upon entry. Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast. Such oper- ations require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, and offering for sale in Ivory Coast has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscrib- ing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning.3 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 must be declared to the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance, and P lann ing before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postpone- ment of the project. The liquidation of investments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of invest- ments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declara- 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Ivory Coast. 4 Including those made in Ivory Coast by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. t ion, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indus- trial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or by approved international trading houses to finance inter- national merchanting transactions; ( 3) loans con- tracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the for- malities prescribed for the liquidation of direct invest- ments. The repayment of other loans requires authori- zation only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Trea- sury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, which are identical except for the commission mentioned below, were J$ 1.781423 = US$1. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar and Jamaica avails itself of wider margins. There are no taxes on sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dol- lars are confined to transactions in certain major cur- rencies.1 The Bank of Jamaica sets daily official buying and selling rates for dealings with the banks on the basis of the previous day's closing quotations in New York or London. The Bank also fixes daily rates at which commercial banks must deal with their customers. For spot dealings with commercial banks in the major currencies, the Bank of Jamaica charges no commission on purchases but 0.0625 per cent is charged on sales. The commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.375 per cent on sales of non-CARicoM currencies and a discount charge of 0.125 per cent on purchases of these currencies. For CARICOM currencies, the commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.25 per cent on sales and a discount charge of 0.25 per cent on purchases. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers. Except for the allowance for tourist travel, for which the commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange, and transfers from External Accounts, all foreign exchange payments require the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Commercial banks act only as agents of the Bank of Jamaica; they sell foreign exchange receipts to the Bank of Jamaica and in turn purchase foreign exchange from the Bank of Jamaica against documentation. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any for- i Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and the currencies of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM). The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. eign currency.2 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Special regulations apply to settle- ments with Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require specific authorization. Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts without the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. The funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may riot be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including the proceeds from the sale of undeveloped land) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be used without limitation by nonresidents for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica, and for invest- ment in Jamaica dollar securities and /or local mort- gages. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$ 1,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in Rhodesia or South Africa are prohibited. A small number of goods may be imported freely from virtually all sources under an open general license.3 All other imports require specific licenses, irrespective of origin. For some goods, licenses are not normally issued unless they originate in member coun- tries of the CARicoM.4 Imports are subject, in principle, to a global annual ceiling. Certain food items may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Nutrition Holdings Limited. Payments for imports are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Jamaica and all payments for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being 2 All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 3 For these goods, the open general license applies to all countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. 4 For import licensing purposes, CARICOM member country. the Bahamas is treated as a 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA met; the importer must present a copy of the settle- ment invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that he is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments. Certain goods are subject to a consumption tax, whether they are imported or manufactured domesti- cally. In addition, a 10 per cent stamp duty tax is applied to imports with the exception of government imports, basic food items, crude petroleum, fuel for utility companies, imports from CARICOM countries, and most raw materials. These taxes are collected at the port of entry and are calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs and the customs duty. Certain import payments have been delayed. These arrears have largely been centralized and the Bank of Jamaica is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. In December 1978 the authorities initiated a scheme whereby, within certain limits, priority for access to foreign exchange is granted to those importers who qualify for "certified exporter status." Access to that status is linked to past and projected export performance and to the local value-added content of the exported product. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is not, as a rule, made available for remittances of income from emigrants' property in Jamaica, remittances for family maintenance, and cash gifts. In the case of transfers from emigrants' income and payments for family main- tenance, limited exceptions may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are approved net of taxation. Certain current payments have been delayed. These arrears also have largely been centralized and the Bank of Jamaica is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. A basic exchange allowance of US$55 a person for each calendar year for foreign travel other than for business or professional reasons is made available to residents by authorized dealers. The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and professional rea- sons is subject to the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica and to daily limits of US$82 a day for the United States and US$108 a day for Europe. The number of days for which the approval is granted is determined on the merits of each case. Expenses for hotel accomodation, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be deducted from the travel allocation. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 per cent of their gross salary during the 226 period of their contract, and their accumulated assets at the end of the contract period. Residents going abroad may take with them Jamaica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other banknotes not exceeding the equivalent of J$50. Bona fide requests for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the foreign cur- rency notes they brought in. All visitors to Jamaica carrying more than US$500 or its equivalent must declare the foreign exchange they bring in or take out of Jamaica. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$300 (f.o.b.) may be freely exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited list.5 Where the value exceeds J$300, the goods may still be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural prod- ucts, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within three months from the date of shipment. How- ever, with the approval of the exchange control author- ities, certain exporters may retain an agreed portion of their settlement of overseas commitments, as may be necessary for their operations; such retained export proceeds must not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents returning to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica banknotes up to J$20 a traveler, provided that this amount was declared on leaving the country, and all travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes. Visitors are not per- mitted to bring in or take out Jamaica currency. Resi- dent travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return. Tourists are required to settle their hotel bills in foreign currencies unless they can prove that they had purchased with foreign currency an equivalent amount of Jamaica dollars from an authorized bank in Jamaica. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents and the purchase of local assets by residents from nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved unless they result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. Foreign exchange is not made available to residents to make cash gifts to nonresidents. 5 The list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, South Africa, and U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa, and exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution With the exception of certain types of investment in real estate, all approved direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will at any time be able to repatriate his original invest- ment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. In general, non-Jamaican nonresidents are not per- mitted to raise local mortgages. However, nonresidents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mort- gage restricted to 50 per cent. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are allowed to remit from Jamaica, in the first instance, the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price can be remitted annually in ten equal installments, subject to a maximum remittance in any one year of J$ 10,000, except where the owner had received a previous under- taking that the investment in land carried "approved status." Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots are treated similarly, provided that the nonresident seller can satisfy the Bank of Jamaica as to the amount spent in Jamaica in acquiring the lot and constructing the building. Except for special cases, which may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds, no foreign exchange is made available for remittances of capital or income to Jamaican nationals who have emi- grated abroad, and to beneficiaries under wills and JAMAICA intestacies. A maximum of J$4,000 a year may be allowed by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds.6 Between January 1977 and March 1979 principal payments for private nonguaranteed debt were not being released. Applications received up to June 1978 for the remittance of principal were placed in the Deposit Scheme and were released between April and December 1979. The balance of outstanding private nonguaranteed debt will be consolidated and repaid over a 70-month period beginning in Janua ry 1980. Gold Three commemorative gold coins of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numis- matic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus t r ial users. All commercial imports of jewelry require import licenses. Changes during 1979 May 2. A f ter completing the preannounced schedule of mon th ly devaluations, the authorities pegged the Jamaica dollar to the U.S. dollar at J$ 1.781423 = US$1. May 30. The daily limits on exchange allocations for travel for business and professional reasons were increased to US$82 for the United States and US$108 for Europe. June 30. Exchange rate guarantees given in respect of some transactions at the time of the exchange rate changes in April and October 1977 and January 1978 were eliminated. «Th is amount in Jamaica dollars has been increased to take into account the devaluations of the Jamaica dollar since January 1977. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions and exchange rates are deter- mined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1979 was Y 239.70 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must have a per- mitted underlying transaction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export licensing is handled by the MITI. Long-term inward direct investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance and other appro- priate ministers. In some exceptional cases, outward direct investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Settlements in yen with foreign coun- tries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Free Yen Accounts may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan; they may be credited with the yen proceeds from exports of goods to Japan and from other authorized trans- actions, with yen proceeds from sales of all foreign currencies, with transfers from other Free Yen Accounts, with interest accrued on balances in these accounts, and with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward pay- ments, such as the proceeds from the sale or redeemed principal of securities payable in yen. There are no restrictions on payments from these accounts, and bal- ances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. 228 imports and Import Payments Imports are subject either to individual licensing by the authorized foreign exchange banks or, if liberalized, to declaration to such banks. Most private imports are liberalized. There are two procedures for imports requir- ing payment in foreign currencies: ( 1) The Import Quota System and ( 2) the Declaration System. The Import Quota System covers imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 73 items; 27 of these have been notified to the GATT as residual restrictions, wh i le the other 47 items have been notified as falling under the state trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT; 1 item classified in the Customs Cooperation Council Nomen- clature (CCCN), four-digit, is counted twice. Once the importer has obtained an import quota from the MITI, he receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. Practically all import quota certificates are issued by the MITI on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. (2) Under the Declaration System, imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing and require only a declaration by the importer to an authorized foreign exchange bank. All items may be imported from any country. Items under state trading include certain dairy prod- ucts, certain cereals, salt, raw silk, raw and manu- factured tobacco, poppy straw, raw opium, and ethyl and denatured alcohol. Payment for imports may be effected up to one year before the import declaration or up to six months (in the case of capital goods, consumer durables, and imports based on consignment sales contracts up to one year) after customs clearance. Longer settlement periods require the prior approval of the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without any limitation, subject to verification by foreign exchange banks. Gifts and donations to nonresidents, except relatives abroad, are referred to the Bank of Japan; upon verification of the authenticity of the payment, they are approved. Current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in connection with travel abroad and remittances to relatives abroad, may be made without limit. Other payments in amounts in excess of the equivalent of ¥ 3 million a remittance require the verification of a foreign exchange bank or licensing by the Bank of Japan or by the Minister of Finance, depending on the purpose of the payment. Certain technical assistance and service contracts require approval, but when a license for a contract has been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution granted, any payment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely up to ¥ 3 million in Japanese currency and may acquire foreign currency deposits in Japan. Overseas deposits by individuals up to the equivalent of ¥ 3 million are subject to automatic approval by the Bank of Japan. Qualified enterprises in insurance, transportation, securi- ties, etc., are permitted to acquire overseas deposits under blanket licensing from the Bank of Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by v ir tue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and an export trade control order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, or export prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1979, there were 61 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. Of these, 46 required prior notice of exporters' agreements in respect of export transactions, 15 required prior approval of manu- facturers' agreements on domestic transactions in goods for export, and 9 were reinforced by an export trans- action license requirement. In addition, 205 items were subject to license under the Foreign Exchange and For- eign Trade Control Law. These items are goods subject to the following restrictions: restrictions on certain goods to control their export to specified socialist coun- tries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., tungsten ore); and restrictions designed to forestall the imposition of import restric- tions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts, and exports for which settlement is not under the "standard" method also require ind iv idual licenses. Under the "standard" method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in general, be settled by drawing a bill of exchange payable w i th in five months after sight or within six months after ship- ment. There are no surrender requirements for foreign currency earnings. Advance receipts are freely allowed up to one year prior to certification. In addition, all exports (except exports whose value is not more than ¥ 1 million or exports without foreign exchange) must be certified by a foreign exchange bank ("bank certification"). Proceeds from invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted without a license. As an exception, contracts where pay- ment may be received over one year after a technical assistance service, or a service connected with con- struction work has been rendered, are subject to indi- vidual licensing. Nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Residents are JAPAN allowed to bring in foreign currency which has been acquired legitimately and Japanese currency without limitation. Capital Foreign investments in Japan (acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors) are generally subject to approval. Acquisitions of stocks and bonds for portfolio investment are automatically approved, as are repurchase agreements on the gensaki market (a repurchase or resale market for short-term trading in bonds). Portfolio investment in stocks is permitted automatically, provided that certain limits on the pro- portion of stocks held by foreign investors are not exceeded. The l im i ts are 10 per cent for any one foreign investor and 15 per cent for all foreign investors in certain industries (ma in ly such essential industries as financial institutions, gas, electricity supply, and rail- roads) and 25 per cent for other industries. Acquisitions in excess of these limits may be allowed if the corpora- tion concerned gives its consent. All acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds f rom the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent, if the investor wishes to obtain remittance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock dividends from earned surpluses or reval- ua t ion of assets may be acquired freely, but-application for remittance rights must be made w i th in three months f rom the date of acquisition. The following are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds f rom the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds from the redemption af ter ma tu r i ty of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the fo rm of loans; dividends on stocks, and interest on debentures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits from beneficiary certificates; receipts from technological assistance contracts; and proceeds f rom sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid because of expro- priation may be repatriated freely. The remittance of the proceeds f rom the sale of validated stocks (shares), as well as the transfer abroad of ea rn ings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is permitted freely. Proceeds from the sale of bonds, debentures, and beneficiary certificates may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, which are freely transferable. When foreign companies wish to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they must inform the Ministry of Finance and MITI in advance through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, or to remit their profits and principal abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. Licenses are given automatically if the required documents are presented. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Foreign direct investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance and other appro- priate ministers. The ministries also take into account the opinion of the Foreign Investment Council. Foreign ownership up to 100 per cent is permitted in new or existing enterprises, provided that, in the case of exist- ing enterprises, the enterprise consents to such owner- ship, except in agriculture, the forestry and fisheries industries, the mining and the oil industries, and the leather products manufacturing industry. In three of these four industries, investment is subject to case-by- case screening and in new enterprises of the mining industry foreign ownership is permitted automatically up to 50 per cent. Most of the validation procedures are entrusted to the Bank of Japan. Purchases by non- residents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and for offices are free from licensing. Purchases of real estate for other purposes require approval by the Minister of Finance or the Bank of Japan. Purchases of real estate for commercial purposes, except for the above-mentioned four industries, are per- mitted automatically. Outward direct investments require only notification to the Bank of Japan, except for investment by banks and securities companies, and investment abroad in certain designated industries which requires a license by the Minister of Finance or the Bank of Japan. Out- ward portfolio investments by residents are basically liberalized. Foreign borrowers may issue yen bonds on the Japanese capital market; the timing and amount of issue is controlled by Japanese underwriters.1 Bond issues denominated in yen and floated in Europe (Euro-yen bonds) require approval of the Ministry of Finance.2 Japanese emigrants and emigrants of foreign nationality may freely remit any amount from their assets to any country. Outward financial credits and loans are subject to licensing. Guarantees given by Japanese companies are basically liberalized except for a few cases. The issuing by Japanese companies of bonds abroad denominated in foreign currencies also is subject to licensing; in recent years such issues have been permitted liberally. Securities acquired with approval under the Law Con- cerning Foreign Investment and the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law may be imported and exported freely. Foreign exchange banks are subject individually to controls over their overall net position in foreign cur- rency (their oversold or overbought position), and limits are also applied to the net spot oversold position. Japanese banks are also subject to maturity trans- formation control so that a certain proportion of medium-term and long-term foreign currency loans must be matched by funding of original maturity of 1 In 1979 there were 22 flotations of yen-denominated bonds totaling Y 400 billion, compared with 40 issues totaling Y 827 billion in 1978. a In 1979 there were two Euro-yen issues totaling Y 25 billion, com- pared with one issue of Y 15 billion in 1978. 230 greater than one year. Foreign loans of Japanese banks are subject to approval, but blanket approval has been given to some of them since July 1978. Deposits held in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts are subject to a reserve requirement of 0.25 per cent. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese banking regulations. In addition to domestic banking business, foreign banks make foreign currency loans to resident corporations (impact loans, subject to certain restrictions on their use), and they obtain resources from remittances of foreign currency. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import and export of gold bullion is free from licensing, except for transactions exceeding the equivalent of ¥ 3 million. For such transactions notification to a foreign exchange bank or customs house is required. Changes during 1979 January 1. The Ministry of Finance required Japanese banks to match 60 per cent of their outstanding medium- term and long-term loans denominated in foreign cur- rency with foreign currency financing having maturities greater than one year. January 77. The Bank of Japan reduced the reserve requirement on increases in nonresidents' free yen deposits from 100 per cent to 50 per cent (see also entry for February 10, below). January 23. The Ministry of Finance permitted non- resident purchases of yen bonds with remaining maturi- ties of one year and one month or more; previously, purchases of bonds with remaining maturities of less than five years and one month were banned (see also en try for February 24, below). February 10. The Bank of Japan eliminated the reserve requirement on increases in nonresidents' free yen deposits. The basic reserve requirement of 0.25 per cent on such deposits remained in effect. February 24. The ban on nonresident purchases of yen bonds with remaining maturities of less than a year and a month was lifted. March 1. The permissible period for the conversion of proceeds of foreign yen loans and bond issuance was increased to 30 days. March 12. The ceilings on oversold spot positions (swap quotas) of foreign banks were raised. Japanese banks were allowed to be in oversold spot positions under ceilings set for individual banks. March 22. The MITI decided to maintain the meas- ures concerning Japan's exports, for the time being. (These measures were designed only to monitor export trends and did not establish targets.) April 12. The agreement on the Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations was initialed by major industrial countries. Japan agreed to lower tariffs on approximately 2,400 industrial products and 200 agri- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cultural, forestry, and fishery products, in principle, over eight years starting in 1980. The average reduction was about 50 per cent of the base rates but as Japan had voluntarily reduced tariffs in 1972, further reduction at this time would amount to some 20 per cent of the existing rates. The final result would be an average tariff rate of about 3 per cent on industrial imports, other than petroleum products. May 3. Japan decided to implement a large part of the Tokyo Round tariff reductions ahead of schedule. May 11. The Ministry of Finance announced a seven- point program for relaxing restrictions on capital inflows, as follows (the dates of eventual implementation are given in parentheses): (1) The maximum import usance period was extended from 140 days to 180 days (May 15). (2) The requirement of government approval for export prepayments exceeding US$500,000 was lifted (May 15). (3) The restriction on the maximum conversion period for proceeds of foreign yen bonds or syndicated loans to 30 days was lifted (May 11). (4) Curbs on the use of impact loans with a repayment period exceeding one year were eased (May 28). Formerly, such loans were required to be used for equip- ment or long-term manufacturing working capital, but traders were now also permitted to use them for long- term working capital, or for hedging exchange risks. (5) The ban on short-term impact loans of less than one year by foreign or Japanese banks was lifted (June 1). (6) The 25 per cent limit on the share of non- residents in subscriptions to foreign yen bonds was lifted (May 11). (7) Nonresidents were given access to the gensaki market (May 21). May 15. A bill revising the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law was approved by the Cabi- net and submitted to the Diet for approval. The draft law, incorporating a revision of the Law concerning Foreign Investment, provided that, in general, foreign exchange transactions could be made freely, although in some cases prior notification was required. Some restrictions were to be maintained, such as the con- tinuing requirement for verification purposes that most transactions be channeled through foreign exchange banks, and emergency controls were kept in reserve. Loans from abroad would normally be allowed, as would inward and outward portfolio investment and real estate investment out of Japan. Provided advance notice was given, Japanese firms could lend abroad and could issue bonds abroad, and yen bonds could be issued by nonresidents. Outward direct investments could take place after prior notification, as could inward direct investments, except in specified industries and any other cases where such investment would have an adverse effect on the economy. For current trans- actions, there was to be a simplification of trade pro- cedures, abolition, in principle, of the standard trade settlement formula, and abolition of restrictions on virtually all transactions in invisibles. The limit of the JAPAN equivalent of ¥ 3 million on residents' foreign currency deposits with resident banks would be abolished. (The law was approved by the Diet on December 11.) May 16. Japanese banks and foreign banks operating in Japan were authorized to issue yen-denominated negotiable certificates of deposit. The minimum nominal value for each issue was set at ¥ 500 million. The ceil- ing on total issues for each domestic institution (which, in principle, included all institutions accepting customer deposits, except securities houses) would be 25 per cent of shareholder's equity or net assets, while for branches of foreign banks the limit would be 10 per cent of out- standing yen-denominated loans and security holdings (¥ 3 billion if 10 per cent of outstanding yen-denomi- nated assets did not reach 25 per cent). To avoid dis- ruption of existing short-term markets, the ceiling for domestic institutions was initially set at 10 per cent, and was to be raised every three months until the 25 per cent figure was reached. Interest rates were to be free of official control. Maturities were initially limited to a range of three to six months. Certificates of deposit could be transferred, subject to the approval of the issuing bank. August 17. Japan and the United States signed a trade agreement for textiles, covering 1979-81 and limiting Japanese exports of 11 items. August 25. Agreement was reached for repayment of North Korea's debts to Japan. November 27. Measures aimed at encouraging capital inflows and improving surveillance of foreign exchange transactions were announced. There was to be a further liberalization of impact loans. The Import Settlement Bill System, which provided low-cost yen finance for imports, was to be suspended for most importers on December 3, and the ceilings on spot positions (swap quotas) for both Japanese banks and foreign banks operating in Japan were to be increased. Surveillance measures were to be as follows: (1) authorized foreign exchange banks were to report the volume of trans- actions undertaken, both interbank and vis-a-vis cus- tomers, as well as individual transactions exceeding US$5 million (da i ly ); (2) the main trading companies were to report the outstanding balances of forward exchange purchased and sold in relation to foreign trade (mon th ly ); and (3) securities companies and foreign exchange banks were to report the amount of acquisi- tions of short-term foreign securities by residents and amounts of currency deposits, respectively (three times monthly). December 11. The Diet approved the new Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law (see entry for May 15, above). The law would take effect with the completion of the implementing regulations, sched- uled for the second half of 1980. December 28. The Japanese Government decided to lift economic sanctions against Rhodesia. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Jordan is the Jordan D inar, which is pegged to the SDR at JD 0.388 = SDR 1. The mid- rate of the Jordan d in ar for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is determined by the Central Bank of Jordan on the basis of the daily calculations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1979 the buy- ing and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were US$3.4014 and US$3.3784, respectively, per JD 1, and those for sterling were £ stg. 1.5249 and <£ stg. 1.5156, respectively, per JD 1. Buy ing and sell- ing rates for other foreign currencies 1 are fixed on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the London mar- ket. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange per- mits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Forward exchange transactions are permitted. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for import payments and, w i th in per- mitted annual limits, for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. An Import Committee comprising rep- resentatives of the Ministries of Indus try and Trade and of Finance and Customs and the Central Bank reviews import policy. In addition, an Economic Security Com- mittee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones concerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency All settlements in respect of trade with Turkey must be made in U.S. dollars through clearing accounts under a special reciprocal line of credit in U.S. dollars between the Central Banks of Jordan and Turkey.2 Payments to other countries may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except of Jordanian goods to neighboring Arab countries or, excluding f ru i ts and vegetables, up to JD 500 to other countries and re-exported goods of for- eign origin up to JD 1,500 in va lue) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan, or in Jordan dinars from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan. 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 A bilateral payments arrangement with Egypt has been suspended. 232 Nonresident Accounts Subject to the pr ior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency; these accounts may be credited only w i th approved fund s. The approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers f rom resident to nonresident accounts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, includ- ing Jo rdan ians working abroad, may free ly open interest- bear ing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be w i thdrawn freely in convertible currency and the interest rate is fixed in accordance w i th rates preva i l ing in international mar- kets. Jo rdan ian nationals residing in Jordan may ma in- ta in fore ign currency deposits w i th licensed banks in Jordan, provided that such deposit accounts are credited w i th foreign currencies f rom any source and that the total of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equ iva lent of JD 10,000. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to r e tu rn may open accounts in foreign curren- cies w i thout l im i ts for a period of up to five years, a f ter which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 10,000 must be converted into Jordan d ina rs. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain i tems3 f rom any source, some imports f rom Roman ia, and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports, unless cov- ered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting coun try (i.e., agr icu l tural products f rom neighboring coun tr ies), requ ire import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Min- is t ry of Indu s t ry and Trade, except for certain i tems4 that are subject to scrutiny by the Minister of Industry and Trade (whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an indus- t r ial firm) or by the appropriate ministry. Impo r ts that require an import license also require an exchange permit which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer ho ld ing an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange perm i ts for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved 3 These include carbonic acid; some nonalcoholic beverages; ciga- rettes; second-hand passenger cars and buses that are more than five years old; and m i l i t a ry un i fo rm s. Cer ta in of these commodities may be imported, however, f rom Arab Common Market countries and from countries w i th wh ich trade agreemen ts are in force. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other ag r icu l tu ral commodities may be prohibited in good crop years. * These items on the "restricted list" inc lude frozen meat, fish, and pou l try; ghee, ma rga r ine, and other vegetable fa ts; tomato juice; saccharin; Dulcin; pectin; superphosphates; dry batteries; guns; fire- crackers; and wireless transmission and reception apparatus other than televisions and radios. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution institutions. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior Central Bank approval, which norma l ly is given for essential imports only. Most imported commodities are subject to an import du ty of 4 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable on the issue of the import license. In addition, a surcharge of 15 per cent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month (JD 100 a person a month for Kuwa it and JD 50 for the United K ingdom ). Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally per- mitted w i th in certain limits: remittances to residents' dependents; reasonable l iv ing expenses of Jordan ian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents trav- eling abroad; educational expenses; expenses for medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance pay- ments in accordance with special regulations.5 No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresi- dents or savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18). These allowances are granted annually for one or more trips. For f am i ly support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted, once a year; however, remittances by postal order may be made for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad (JD 100 a mon th for Kuwait and JD 50 for the United Kingdom) and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own country. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and non- residents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordanian notes and coin, and any amount in foreign notes and coin, provided these are for their own use. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accordance with exchange permits author- ized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresi- dents may also take out foreign currency notes and coin and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected and the foreign exchange JORDAN surrendered w i th in six months of shipment. Exempt f r om th is requirement are the proceeds from exports of foreign goods w i th a value of less than JD 1,500, of Jo rdan ian products to neighboring Arab countries, and up to JD 500 from exports (excluding f r u i ts and vege- tables) to other countries. Exporters and residents of Jordan are not permitted to ma in ta in bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if banknotes and travelers checks are received, to an authorized bank or to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may b r ing in any amc-jnt in Jordanian and for- eign notes and coin ° Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any fo re ign currency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and are not normally allowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applica- t ions by banks, insurance companies, indus tr ial or trad- ing firms, and contractors for permission to transfer f u n ds abroad for specified investment or operating pur- poses. Current income resulting f rom nonresident inves tmen ts in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits f rom approved foreign investments may be remitted, w i thout l im i ta t ion, in any convertible currency. A f ter two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in any convertible cur- rency. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are granted accordingly. The Companies Registration Law No. 46 of 1975 provides various benefits for foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the purpose of con- du c t ing business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Prem ium Development Bonds denominated in Jo rdan d inars may be purchased with convertible cur- rencies by nonresidents; ma tur i ty proceeds, premiums, and interest are t rans fe rab le in any convertible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued three gold coins. These coins, a l though legal tender, do not circulate and are ava i lab le only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for num isma t ic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary author- ities and authorized indus tr ial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than 5 All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but foreign exchange is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded prior to May 1965. 0 Approval is not given for the crediting of such Jordanian cur- rency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equ iva lent in foreign currency. 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any fo rm require a license from the Central Bank. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1979 May 30. The Central Bank announced certain meas- ures to liberalize foreign exchange controls: (1) foreign currency might be transferred to local banks and exchange dealers in any form; (2) the ceiling on foreign currency deposits held by Jordanians was increased from JD 5,000 to JD 10,000; (3) the maximum term for which foreign currency deposits in excess of JD 10,000 might be held by Jordanians who, having worked abroad for more than three years, have decided to return, was extended from three years to five years; (4) foreign cur- rency deposits held by Jordanians might be credited with foreign currencies from any source; and (5) remittances up to JD 5,000 for medical treatment, education, or fam i ly needs were allowed without the presentation of appropriate documentation. August 28. The Central Bank announced that com- mercial banks would be permitted to deal in forward foreign exchange contracts. 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, which is pegged to the SDR at K Sh 9.66 = SDR 1. The mid-rate of the Kenya shilling for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank is determined on the basis of the daily U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank's b u y i ng and selling rates are set at 0.1 per cent below and 0.2 per cent above, respectively, the rate thus determined. On December 31, 1979 buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 7.3202 and K Sh 7.3423, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate New York closing rates. The rates for the Uganda sh i l l ing are set at par. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Government. Add i t ional effective exchange rates may arise from an advance import deposit scheme. The Central Bank deals up to six mon ths fo rw a rd with commercial banks in sterling and U.S. dollars to cover their contracts with exporters and importers; commercial banks may cover their forward exchange contracts in outside markets in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many payments for current invisibles, and some capital payments. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Com- merce. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or the exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange permits for imports also must be submitted to the Director of Trade and Supplies; applications for scheduled imports are screened by the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee, composed of representatives of the Central Bank, the Treasury, and the Director of Trade and Supplies. Orders for imports of goods on open general license must be preregistered with the Director of Trade and Supplies before shipment. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corpora- tion, Ltd. has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities, and the export of certain agr icu l tural commodities is controlled by State Marketing Boards. 1 Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, and Zambian kwacha. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries other than Rho- desia and South A f r ica may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya or in any fore ign currency except Rhodesian currency. Receipts f rom countries other than Rhodesia may be obtained in Kenya shillings f rom an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. All payments and t rans fe rs to Rhodesia are prohibited. Remittances to South Afr ica also are prohibited, with the exception of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia and South Africa with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely w i th authorized payments to such coun- tries by residents of Kenya, with t rans fe rs from other Ex te rnal Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than Rhodesian and South A f r ican cu r rency) and gold by nonresidents to author- ized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for paymen ts to residents and nonresidents. Non transferab le funds of nonresidents are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of Rhodesia or South A f r i c a) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Gove rnment or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya.2 The redemption proceeds of these securities are transferab le, and interest is freely trans- ferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; imports of certain other goods are not being licensed. Many goods may be freely imported from other sources under open general license, but others require a specific license. Certain items are imported only by the Kenya National Trading Corpora- tion, Ltd. These include sugar, salt, rice, edible oils, blankets, and cotton piece goods. In addition to the open general import license, there are four commodity schedules for imports. With minor exceptions, all pr iva te sector imports of commodities in Schedules I, II, III, and IV require a license for the allocation of foreign exchange, issued jointly by the Director of Trade and Supplies and the Central Bank. Applications must be approved before firm orders are placed. Imports of goods on open general license 3 Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA requ ire an exchange a l loca t ion license, which is g iv en au toma t ica l ly, and must be preregistered w i th the Director of Trade and Supplies be fo re firm orders are placed. All goods in the first three schedules requ i re a specific impo rt license f rom the Director of Trade and Supplies. Once the specific import license has been obtained, fore ign exchange is gran ted f ree ly for goods in Sched- ule I and on the basis of quo tas ref lec t ing past impo r ts for goods in Schedule II. No fo re ign exchange is granted for Schedule III items. For items in Sched- ule IV, a specific import license is not required but foreign exchange is allocated on a quota basis. From time to time, exemptions may be granted f rom the quotas established u n d er Schedules II and IV and f rom the prohibitions of Schedule III. App l ica t ions for fore ign exchange allocation licenses for impo r ts are subject to a charge of 1 per cent of the amount of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, au thor ized banks are pe rm i t ted to provide exchange against documents, but no rma l ly not prior to customs en t ry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of cap i tal goods on deferred pay- ment terms, and for impor ts of mach inery and equ ip- men t, wh ich are regarded as a c o n t r i b u t i on toward capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. With the exception of imports f rom Tanzan ia, Uganda, and some other countries, most imports w i th a pro forma invoice value in excess of K Sh 20,000 are subject to preshipment inspection as to quality, quan t i ty, and price by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva acting for the Cen tral Bank. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before sh ipmen t, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue sh ipp ing guarantees for the clearance of imports u n t il th is "Clean Report" has been received. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured w i th companies licensed to transact in su rance business in Kenya. Some impo r ts are subject to a temporary import deposit requirement of 50 per cent or 10 per cent of the c. & f. value; for passenger cars and textiles it is 100 per cent, and some commodities are exempt. The deposits bear no interest and are r e fun d ab le w i th in three mon ths (six months for passenger cars and tex t i le s ). Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles are controlled. Au thor ized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of cu r r ent payments without l im i ta t ion or up to established l im i ts. Amoun ts above these l im i ts as well as other cur- rent payments may be approved adm in is t ra t ive ly, and most cu r rent paymen ts are in practice unrestricted. Fees for educa t ion up to the equ iva lent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a f u ll scholastic yea r3 and fees for other 3 Authorized dealers are not allowed to remit any f u n ds for edu- cational support to students at p r ima ry or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975-76 academic year. 236 specified purposes may be approved by an authorized b ank upon p resen ta t ion of evidence of debt. The Central Bank may approve h igher remittances for education expenses. Foreign na t iona ls who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the se l f -emp loyed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more th an f o ur years may remit abroad as savings up to one t h i rd of t h e ir m o n t h ly salaries but not more t h an K Sh 4,000 a mon th; in add i t ion, they may remit f u n ds to cover m a in t en an c e, education expenses, etc., p rov ided t h at t h e ir to tal rem i t tances in c lud ing savings do not exceed one ha lf of the ir mon th ly salaries. Expa t r ia tes who have stayed for over f o ur years may con t inue to remit f rom salaries as above, up to the end of the t en th year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to t ran s fer additional savings upon em ig ra t ion w i th in that period. Remittances to South A f r i c a, other than ce r ta in pensions, are prohibited. Non res ident ind iv idual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the permitted trans- fer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years to ma tur i ty, a f t er wh ich period the redemption proceeds may be rem i t ted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate compan ies de r iv ing income solely f rom rent are per- m i t ted to t r an s f er a n n u a l ly up to 10 per cent of the book v a lue of th e ir properties as at September 25, 1970, or an am o u nt not exceeding 10 per cent of issued capital. Where income is derived f rom rent as well as other sources, applications must be made to the exchange control au tho r i t ies for approval of remittance of such incomes. Companies w i th a nonres ident equity holding may not rem it a d iv idend of more than 10 per cent of equ i ty cap i tal a n d / or reserves. The basic a l lowance for travel by adults holding round - t r ip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for ch i ld ren between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign bankno tes. Holders of one-way tickets are not entitled to the basic t ravel a l lowance but to an allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adu l ts and K Sh 1,000 for ch i ldren. The basic allowance is not ava i lab le for t ravel to Rhodesia or South Afr ica. Business trave lers to Tanzan ia and Uganda are granted an a l lowance of up to K Sh 400 a n ight for a max imum per iod of 10 days at a t ime. Business travelers to other c o u n t r i es are g ran ted an allowance of up to K Sh 650 a n ight for a m a x im um period of 25 days. There is a once on ly p i lg r image allowance of K Sh 6,000 for adu l ts wh ich is ava i lab le only to persons who have not u t i l ized the basic travel allowance w i th in the preceding two years. Nonres ident travelers may take out foreign cu r rency notes up to the amount they brought in upon e n t r y. Residents of K enya t r av e l ing abroad on inter- n a t ion al flights and ho ld ing re tu rn tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 w i th them for local expenses on return, but o therw ise the export of Kenya bankno tes is pro- h ib i ted. Temporar i ly, all sales of tickets to Kenya resi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dents for nongove rnment t ravel outside Kenya are subject to exchange control approval. Applications for travel tickets must be accompanied by a deposit of 10 per cent and 5 per cent of the va lue of the air and sea t icke t, respectively, r e tu rn ab le on ly if the applications are not approved. Residents may not send abroad more than K Sh 200 a year as a cash g i ft w i thout specific exchange control approval. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro- h ib i ted. All regu lar exporters must be registered w i th the Central Bank. Exports of certain foods tu f fs and agr icu l tural products require licenses and may be sub- ject to restriction in order to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic marke t. Exports of tea, cer ta in m inera ls, precious stones, and strategic ma ter ia ls are also subject to licensing. Most other goods may be exported w i thout licenses. Coffee is exported through the Coffee Market- ing Board. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected w i th in three mon ths of exportation and offered to an au thor ized bank in Kenya for conversion in to Kenya shillings.4 Exports of m anu f a c tu r ed goods are eligible for special incen t ives. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in fore ign currenc ies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonres iden ts must settle hotel bills in fore ign cu r rency or against an External Account. Travelers may b r ing in f ree ly fore ign cur- rency notes, except those of Tanzan ia and Uganda. The import of domestic bankno tes is prohibited, except that residents re tu rn ing to Kenya may b r ing in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. Capital Capital t rans fe rs to all coun t r ies are restricted. Trans- fers to Rhodesia or South A f r i ca are not allowed. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings f rom salaries, an em ig rant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 300,000 a f am i ly u n it f rom his declared assets as a se t t l ing - in a l lowance to the new coun t ry of residence. Of th is sum K Sh 100,000 is made available for immed ia te rem i t tance and the remainder w i ll be authorized for rem i t tance in not more than five annual ins ta l lmen ts not exceeding the equ iva lent of K Sh 40,000 each year. The i n i t i al se t t l ing- in allowance of K Sh 100,000 lapses if it is not remitted w i th in the first two years of the em igran t's d ep a r tu re f rom Kenya. All r em a in ing f u n ds must be credited to a Blocked Accoun t; they may then be invested in approved securities, and redemp t ion proceeds become transferab le, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years f rom the date of purchase. If assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 m i l l ion or more, they must be liquidated before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. 4 There are minor exemptions with respect to E th iop ian b i rr and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. KENYA The inves tment of foreign funds in Kenya is not gene ra l ly restricted, but to ensure even tual repatriation it is necessary to obtain f rom the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic inve s tment in specified types of production requ ires approval. Local borrowing by nonresident- owned or nonresident-controlled companies, as well as bo r row ing by residents from nonresidents, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. All imports and exports of securities require approval. App roval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of K e n y an securities on a recognized stock exchange, pro- vided that payment is received in an appropriate m an- ner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must no rma l ly be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Residents are not no rm a l ly pe rm i t ted to purchase foreign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for num i sm a t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone ta ry au thor i t ies and authorized indu s t r i al and professional users are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. The import of the fo l low ing items f rom all sources is subject to ind iv idual l icens ing: jewe lry of gold, silver, or p la t inum; gold- smiths' or s i lversm i ths' wares, in c lud ing set gems; bu l- l ion in the ingo t, bar, or sheet; and gold coin. Imports of gold jewe l ry, as Schedule III items, requ i re specific impo rt licenses and foreign exchange is not allocated for th em; impo rt licenses for gold bu l l ion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and on ly to goldsmiths, and impor ts of gold coin are not being licensed. Changes during 1979 January 2. It was announced that applications for t ravel t icke ts must be accompanied by payment of K Sh 2,000 or K Sh 1,000 for air travel and sea travel, respectively. These fees would be re tu rned if the appli- ca t ions were not approved and would not apply to stu- den ts and residents t r a v e l i ng abroad for health reasons. January 2. Impo r te rs of cer ta in goods were required to nego t ia te 90-180 days' credit overseas. January 27. The travel ticket fees announced on J a n u a ry 2 were changed to 10 per cent and 5 per cent of the v a l ue of the air and sea tickets, respectively. November 29. Several import items were exempted f rom the impo rt deposit requ i remen t, in c lud ing indus- t r i al mach ine ry and spare parts, raw ma ter ia ls, and c rude oil. For most of the r em a in ing items the impo rt deposit was reduced f rom 100 per cent and 25 per cent to 50 per cent and 10 per cent of the c. & f. va lue, respec t ive ly. All deposits except for passenger cars and textiles would be re funded w i th in three months ra ther th an six. The requirement for 90-180 days' overseas credit for impo r ts was w i thd rawn. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Korea is the Korean Won, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar.1 The exchange system com- prises a basic exchange rate, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea (the central b a n k) to foreign exchange banks (the a r i thme t ic average of which is the "concen tra t ion" rate of the Bank of Korea), and also the buy ing and selling rates of foreign exchange banks to customers. The basic exchange rate is W480 = US$1, but the va lue of the won is represented by the tele- graphic transfer selling rate of foreign exchange banks to customers of W 4 85 = US$1.2 On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W483 .10 and W484.90, respec- tively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buy ing and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 483 and W 485, respectively, per US$1. The buying and se l l ing rates for certain other currencies are posted daily by foreign exchange banks on the basis of buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Exchange certificates valid for 30 days may be issued by the foreign exchange banks against all foreign exchange earnings in prescribed currencies surrendered by residents. In practice, most foreign exchange pro- ceeds are exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the foreign exchange banks. Exchange certificates may be changed into equivalent foreign means of payment. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions in foreign currencies. Between banks or between foreign exchange banks and nonresidents, the term of the forward contract may extend for up to one year. Between foreign exchange banks and nonbank resident users of the facility, the term may extend for up to six months, provided that the forward contract relates to a bona fide transaction and that the amount of the contract does not exceed the expected receipt or pay- ment arising from that transaction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The M in is try of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchan- dise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. It also prepares and administers the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan, which sets overall ceilings on the amounts of foreign exchange that may be used. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes !W i th e f fect f rom February 27, 1980 the link w i th the U.S. dollar was d iscon t inued and the va lue of the Korean won was determined in accordance w i th a mu l t i cu r r en cy basket. 2 W i th effect from J a n u a ry 12, 1980 the "concentration" rate of the Bank of Korea was changed f rom W 484 = US$1 to W 580 = US$1 and the telegraphic t ran s fer buy ing and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were changed to W 577.10 and W 582.90, respectively, per US$1. 238 most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital trans- actions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in specified foreign exchange dealings. The trade program for imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports financed by foreign loans are drawn up separately by the Economic Planning Board in consultation with the M in is try of Commerce and Industry. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.8 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may ma in ta in foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances from balances that have accrued from remuneration for services in Korea, fares paid for travel by air or ship, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted from abroad). The deposit may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate and may be debited for salaries paid to foreign employees. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the currency composition of these accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited.4 All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (KFX imports) and those paid for with for- eign loan funds. KFX imports are classified as auto- ma t ic approval or restricted items. All commodities may : JThe list of prescribed currencies consists of the currencies of the 50 member countries of the IMF that have accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I II of the Fund's Articles of Agreemen t, and the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss f ranc. 4 The prohibition was w i thd rawn with effect from Janua ry 29, 1980. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved), unless they are in a list of restricted items, subject to the general limits set by the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan. On December 31, 1979, out of 1,010 basic items in the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature (CCCN), 328 5 were classified as restricted items. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally ap- proved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$1 million of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits ranging from 5 per cent to 20 per cent are required for goods imported by the private sector on a deferred payment basis. These requirements are met, for KFX imports, by a deposit of local currency at the time of applying for the import license. Advance deposits are retained until the bill of lading is released. The customs tariff is a "flexible" tariff. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates adminis- tratively by up to 50 percentage points. The Government also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 per cent on all dutiable imports, but by the end of 1979 it had not invoked this authority. A defense sur- charge of 2.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on most goods, whether locally produced or imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade and for certain other items such as banking charges, insur- ance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allo- cations for business travel and official travel. In addition, exporters are authorized to use certain exchange earn- ings for the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000 as the basic travel allowance plus US$200 a day, or up to US$2,000 as a monthly allowance for living expenses, and may also purchase additional foreign exchange for extra expenses. The basic travel allowance for Koreans working abroad is US$1,000. Korean currency notes in excess of W 500,000 and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresi- dents must register the foreign exchange that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$10,000. Upon leaving the country, foreign resi- dents and tourists may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited (see foot- note 4 ). Certain exports on a restricted list require B With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1980 this number was decreased to 318. KOREA individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate, be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange certificates, or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be exchanged for equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, but the import by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 500,000 is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency accounts, and the conversion of these deposits is subject to approval by the Bank of Korea, the Korean Exchange Bank, or a commercial bank. Approval is being given virtually automatically. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guar- antee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. No limits are placed on the conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and dividends, or on the repatriation of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the Economic Planning Board 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year. Authorization is required for bor- rowing abroad of more than US$200,000 with maturities in excess of three years. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea or a foreign exchange bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. The import of gold for industrial or medical purposes requires approval by a foreign exchange bank. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at public gold auctions was about W 9,330 a gram at the end of 1979. Changes during 1979 January 1. Under a modification of the foreign exchange regulations, Korean banks were permitted to handle all foreign exchange transactions not specifically prohibited; restrictions on foreign currency lending to and from Korea were lifted (although authorization 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA would con t inue to be required for borrowing abroad of more t h an US$200,000 with maturities in excess of three yea rs ); all residents were permitted to hold foreign currency deposit accounts up to a ceiling of US$3,000; offshore bank ing activities and forward exchange trans- actions in currencies other than won were permitted; restrictions on the holding of foreign stocks or securities by foreign exchange banks were removed. There was also a s imp l if ica t ion in procedures. January 1. Tariffs on most imports were reduced. The unweighted average level of ta r i ff rates fell from 36 to 25 per cent. January 1. Forty-one import items were transferred f rom the restricted list to the automatic approval list. January 1. Advance import deposits rang ing from 5 per cent to 20 per cent were required only for goods imported by the private sector on a deferred payment basis. Other advance import deposit requirements were abolished. January 1. The import of gold for industrial or medi- cal purposes required approval by a foreign exchange bank. January 1. It was announced that all overseas trav- elers would be entitled to US$3,000 as a basic travel allowance. The per diem and other allowances for persons employed abroad and for persons invited by foreigners to make overseas trips were abolished. January 4. The obligation to place foreign exchange earnings from construction activities abroad into foreign currency deposits was extended. Conversion into won was made virtually automatic. January 4. The maximum permissible interest rate spreads above the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for foreign loans were lowered from 1.25 per cent to 1 per cent for loans with maturities of over seven years, from 1-1.25 per cent to 0.875 per cent for loans with maturities of over three years, and from 0.875 per cent to 0.75 per cent for loans with shorter maturities. The max imum service charge was reduced from 1 per cent to 0.75 per cent. February I. The m in imum allowable amount for foreign borrowing was reduced from US$10 million to US$5 million. The list of industries eligible for obtain- ing foreign loans was extended to include the hotel business. February 1. Twenty-one import items were trans- ferred from the restricted list to the automatic approval list. March 1. Foreign currency swaps between branches of foreign banks in Korea and Korean banks were prohibited. March 29. The advance import deposit rate for imports with deferred payment of raw materials for pesticides was reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. April 23. The standard settlement period for exports on a usance basis was shortened from one year to six months. May 19. Korea was admitted to the A f r ican Develop- ment Fund. July 1. Thirty-four import items were transferred f rom the restricted list to the automatic approval list, b r ing ing the share of imports with automatic approval to 67.5 per cent of all items in the CCCN. July 27. The United Kingdom lifted import quotas on Korean exports of black and white television sets in exchange for an under tak ing by Korea to voluntarily restrict its exports. August 1. The settlement period for imports with deferred payment was extended from 90 to 120 days. October 1. For persons employed abroad the basic travel allowance of US$3,000 was reduced to US$1,000. December 1. Fourteen import items and subitems were shifted from the automatic approval list to the list of restricted imports, and it was announced that 27 import items and subitems would be shifted f rom the restricted list to the automatic approval list with effect from January 1, 1980. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. Exchange rates are computed from the value of the Kuwa i ti dinar, which is determined on the basis of the fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwa i ti d inar and a weighted basket of currencies of Kuwait's major trad ing partners. For exchange transactions with local banks in the intervention currency, the U.S. dollar, the Central Bank of Kuwait normally sets margins of 0.0625 per cent on either side of the middle rate. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U.S. dollar each day on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.27294 and KD 0.27328, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared forma l ly to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited.1 General and individ- ual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. A limited control over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Adm in is tra t ion of the Ministry of Communications. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foodstuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which also are valid for one year. Imports of a few items (mainly oxygen, certain steel pipes, pork or foodstuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used trucks and buses not using gasoline for fuel and over ten years old, and used 1 In addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction. cars over five years old) are prohibited from all sources. Commercial imports normally are limited to registered importers. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwa i ti nationals or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwa i ti nationals own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Imports f rom any permitted source may be paid for freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, fish, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quan- tities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms, ammun i- tion, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports: the proceeds need not be repatriated or sur- rendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwa i ti or other banknotes. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuwait; at least 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by nationals. No restrictions are imposed on out- ward capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwa i ti nationals may freely, and without license, pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufac tured or unmanufactured, are subject to import duty at 4 per cent. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 37, 7979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic is the New Kip, which was introduced by decree on December 10, 1979 to replace the Kip of Liberation at NK 1 = KL 100. On December 31, 1979 the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the National Bank of Laos (the central b ank) was NK 16 = US$1.1 The offi- cial exchange rate applies to most foreign exchange transactions. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are also officially quoted. An exchange pre- m ium of up to 50 per cent is determined periodically and applies to transactions with tourists and with embas- sies and to inward transfers. Administration of Control The Lao Bank for Foreign Trade, a subsidiary of the National Bank, handles all official foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the National Bank. Applications for official imports have to be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Finance. Most foreign trade has been nationalized. Exchange control is administered by the National Bank. The Societe Lao Import-Export (SLIE), which is a part of the Department of Foreign Trade, carries out the actual trade transactions and collects a commission of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value of each export or import transaction. The Department of Internal Trade in the M in is t ry of Commerce purchases imported commodities from the SLIE for domestic distribution and pays the import taxes. It values merchandise received under for- eign aid at the domestic sale price of the product; import taxes on aid imports are levied on 80 per cent of this price. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but, in principle, the National Bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bilateral trading arrangements, covering all commod- ity trade with Bulgaria, the German Democratic Repub- lic, and Viet Nam. The un it of account is the U.S. dol- lar, and each account is settled at the end of the year in commodities valued at world market prices. Imports and Import Payments Only essential imports are permitted through official channels, depending on need and the availability of f u n d s. An annual import plan is formulated by the Department of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Com- 1 On Janua ry 15, 1980 the rate was changed to NK 10 = US$1. -' Deutsche m a rk, French francs, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling. 242 merce, based on requests furn ished by each government ministry, province, and state enterprise. In general, priority is given to the import of spare parts, raw mate- rials, machinery, and commodities of basic necessity, including rice. The import program is reviewed and revised every three months dur ing the fiscal year. An allocation of foreign exchange to a state enterprise lapses at the end of the fiscal year if it is not utilized; state enterprises may modify their import requirements during the year, subject to the approval of the Comite du Plan. State enterprises must transfer their export earnings to the National Bank but 20 per cent of these earnings may be kept by the enterprise in a special account in the National Bank; the special account can be used by the exporting enterprise to import machinery and spare parts, as well as to cover certain prescribed operational expenses in foreign exchange. These amounts are not included in the annual import plan. Payments for Invisibles There is a foreign exchange budget detailing the Gov- ernment's payments in foreign exchange dur ing the fiscal year. Payments for all other invisibles are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The fu ll proceeds from all exports must be surrendered to the National Bank. There is an export tax of 10 per cent on all exports except logs, which are taxed at 25 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the National Bank. Capital There is no foreign investment code. All outward capital transactions are prohibited. Gold Residents are prohibited from buying or selling gold in any form. Changes during 1979 December 10. The Government instituted a currency reform. The new kip replaced the kip of liberation at NK 1 = KL 100. Currency notes of less than KL 100 remained in circulation but with values corresponding to the new currency unit. The official exchange rate temporarily became NK 16 = US$1. At the same time a premium of up to 50 per cent was introduced for tourists, for embassies, and for remittances from abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not ma in ta in marg ins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange marke t. However, the au thor i- ties in tervene when necessary in order to m a i n t a in order ly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1979 the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 3.2575 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The calculation of duties and taxes for a given mon th on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies is based on the middle rate of those currencies du r ing the previous month. For December 1979 this rate was LL3 .38 per US$1. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transactions w i th certain countries with which Lebanon has paymen ts agreements1 may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (ma in ly arms and ammun i- tion, narcotics, and similar products) are either pro- hibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agri- cultural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year-round or du r ing a specified period of the year. Imports prohibited year-round include wheat, which, in principle, may be imported only by the Government, and citrus f ru i ts, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 k i log rams ), olive oil, and peanuts; imports prohibited at certain times include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, and electric and tele- phone wires and cables made of copper. All other com- modities may be imported freely w i thout a license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained f ree ly. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers are in pos- session of a valid import license, if required, before issuing letters of credit. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originating in an A rab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports except gold and banknotes at the following rates: LL 2 per mill for import values up to LL 100,000, LL 1.5 per m i ll for impo rt va lues between LL 100,000 and LL 400,000, and LL 1 per m i ll for impo rt values exceeding LL 400,000. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the app l icab le import du ty is levied on specified textiles and garments .2 Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, jewelry, watches, and alcoholic beverages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles, based on weight, are 20 piastres a k i log ram up to 1,500 kilograms; 30 piastres a k i log ram between 1,500 kilograms and 2,000 k i log rams; and 40 piastres a kilogram over 2,000 k i lograms. The rate of surcharge on watches and jewe l ry is 5 per cent, and that on alcoholic beverages is LL 4 per l i ter, or LL 145 for a case of wh iskey contain- ing 12 bottles. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (m a in ly arms and ammun i- t ion, narcotics, and s im i lar produc ts) to any des t ina t ion, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of wheat and its derivatives, to any country, and all exports to No r th Korea require a license. Exchange receipts f rom exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom inv is ib les may be retained, used, or sold in the free ma rke t. Capital There are no l im i t a t ions on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold th rough the free market. Since November 7, 1979 banks are permitted to pay interest on nonresident-held deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. They may extend cred it in Lebanese pounds to nonresidents up to the amount of their pa id- in capital, provided such credit serves to finance foreign trade transactions. B ank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of fore ign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transac t ions is subject to a reserve requirement of 40 per cent. Banks are authorized to m a i n t a in net fore ign cu r rency positions up to twice the amount of their own fund s, and their net fore ign currency posi- t ions ( c l a ims and l iab i l i t ies separa te ly) are subject to l im i ta t ion. Under a "free zone" bank ing fac i l i ty, the commercial banks are exempt f rom reserve require- ments and fees for deposit insurance in respect of fore ign currency deposits of nonresidents. Under a Na t ional Investment Insurance Scheme, new 1 Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Romania. There are also payments arrangements with Egypt and Guinea. 2 The surcharge is to be abolished by December 31, 1980. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON fore ign inves tmen ts are insured against losses a r is ing f rom nonc iv il risks, inc lud ing war. Compensation is paid on losses exceeding 5 per cent of the in su red va lue. Gold Residents may free ly hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may free ly negotiate gold in any fo rm w i th residents and nonres iden ts at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be off ic ia l ly recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coin must be covered by a certificate ind i c a t ing the gold content and weight, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes during 1979 February 24. Bank lend ing in Lebanese pounds to purchase fore ign exchange for purposes other than fo re ign trade was prohibited. In the event of in f rac t ion, such transac t ions would be subject to a 40 per cent reserve requ iremen t. November 7. Banks were permitted to pay interest on nonresident-held deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 37, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Lesotho is the South A f r i c an Rand.1 The p r inc ipal i n t e r v e n t i on cu r rency is the U.S. do l la r. On December 31, 1979 the b u y i ng and s e l l i ng rates for the U.S. d o l l ar were US $ 1 . 2 1 25 and US$1.2065, respec- t i v e l y, per R 1. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. There is also a f ree ly floating financial rand which app l ies to the local sale and redemp t ion proceeds of Sou th A f r i c an securities and other inve s tmen ts in Lesotho owned by non re s iden t s, cap i tal r em i t t an c es by em i g r a n ts and imm i g r a n t s, and approved ou twa rd cap i tal t r an s f e rs by residents. The rate is u s u a l ly at a d iscount f rom the commercial rand rate. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, wh ich is a single exchange control te r r i to ry comprising Lesotho, South A f r i c a, and Swaz i land. No restrictions are applied to paymen ts w i t h in the Rand Monetary Area; these are uncon t ro l led and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are s im i l ar to those of South Afr ica and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Commissioner of F inanc ial Ins t i tu t ions in the M in i s t ry of Finance controls all external currency transactions.2 Lesotho's trade l icens ing arrangemen ts are designed ma in ly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; pe rm i ts are issued by the M in i s t ry of Com- merce and Indus try. Licenses for financial ins t i tu t ions and insurance agents are issued by the Commissioner of F inanc ial Ins t i tu t ions. Imports and import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs un ion w i th Bot- swana, South A f r ica, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on impor ts o r ig ina t ing in any coun t ry of the customs un ion. Imports f rom coun t r ies outside the customs un ion are u s u a l ly licensed in con fo rm i ty w i th South Africa's import regu la t ions; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict cer ta in imports. Impo rt pe rm i ts are va l id for all coun tr ies and en t i t le the ho lder to buy the fore ign exchange required to make the impo rt payment upon customs en try. There are no b i la teral paymen ts arrange- ments. All imports in to the customs u n i o n, except those covered by a GATT b ind ing, are subject to an import surcharge of 7.5 per cent.3 Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing but most 1 A national currency, the maloti, equal in va lue to the rand (wh ich rema ins legal tende r) was introduced on J anu a ry 19, 1980. u The func t ions of the Commissioner of Financial Ins t i tu t ions were taken over by the newly established Lesotho Monetary Au tho r i ty on J a n u a ry 1, 1980. ri The surcharge was abolished by South A f r i ca w i th e f fect March 1980. f rom exports are shipped w i thout license to or South A f r ica. through Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles P aym en ts to non res iden ts for cu r rent transactions, a l t h o u gh subject to con t ro l, are not no rm a l ly restricted. A u t h o r i ty to approve some types of c u r r e nt paymen ts has been delegated to au thor ized dealers up to estab- l ished l im i t s, such as the basic exchange allowance for t o u r i st t r av el ( t he e q u i v a l e nt of R 3,000 in a calendar year for an a d u lt and R 1,200 for a c h i l d) and a smaller a n n u al a l loca t ion for travel to ne ighbo r ing countries. The a l lowance for bus iness t r av el is R 4,500 in a c a l e n d ar year. Capital App l ica t ions for ou tward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The ru l ings on applications for inwa rd and ou tward cap i tal transfers may depend on whe ther the app l icant is a tempo ra r i ly resident for- eign n a t ion a l, a nonres iden t, or a resident. At present, the financial rand market is open only ta nonresidents and imm ig r an ts who in tend to reside in Lesotho for not more t h an three years. Cer ta in tax incentives for inw a rd direct inve s tment are provided to m a n u f a c t u r i ng unde r tak ings approved by a Pioneer Indu s t r ies Board u n d er the P ioneer Indu s t r i es Encou ragement Act, 1969. Em ig rant f am i l i es whose net assets do not exceed R 20,000 may t r a n s f er R 10,000 outside Lesotho as a se t t l ing- in allowance, and those w i th larger assets may t r a n s f er 50 per cent of the total, up to R 30,000 for a f am i ly or R 10,000 for an ind iv idu a l. Any excess mu st be credited to a Blocked Accoun t; emigrants may use such blocked f u n ds up to an amount of R 30,000 a f am i ly or R 10,000 a single person to subscribe to non res ident bonds. The free transfer of income f rom an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an a n n u al m a x im um of R 100,000 a f am i ly un i t. An em ig r ant f am i ly or person may export one automobile on ly, w i th a m a x im um va lue of R 10,000, provided it was purchased at least one year p r ior to emigration. Gold Residents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell any gold coin th at is legal tender. Changes during 1979 March 29. The common import surcharge levied by the customs un ion was reduced f rom 12.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. August 10. The securities rand was replaced by a financial r and, which would be ava i lab le to nonresidents for the purchase of a wider var ie ty of financial assets than was the case w i th the securities rand. October 22. Travel allowances for both private and business travel were increased by 50 per cent. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Liberia is the L ibe r ian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 = US$1. There is no official in terven t ion. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coinage. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. Settlements with the Central Bank of West A f r ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are nor- ma l ly made through the West A f r i c an Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions by the M in is t ry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation and the Na t ional Invest- ment Commission to protect local indus t ry. These items comprise automobile batteries, brooms and brushes, crown corks, exercise books and note pads, insecticides, kitchen towels, roofing nails, paint, paper napk ins, toilet tissues, wheelbarrows, biscuits, flour, rice, and sugar. A few items (e.g., arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Imports of rubber footwear, household candles, safety matches, and powdered detergents have been suspended temporarily. In addition, imports of certain goods (e.g., pornographic literature, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. Petroleum is imported only by the Liberian Petroleum Refining Company, although a pri- vate company is the sole distributor of aviation fuel. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports of rice, gasoline, kerosene, and other petroleum products have been tempo ra r i ly suspended. Export licenses are at present required for precious metals, precious stones, elephant tusks and ivory, wild animals, cement, agricul- t u r al products other than rubber, flour, sugar, and cer- ta in other items, such as arms and ammun i t ion and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely and no licenses are required for direct exports by foreign con- cession holders; licenses serve ma in ly to enforce taxa- tion or, for agr icu l tural products, to assure certification of qu a l i ty and or ig in and to safeguard the export monop- oly of the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation. The surrender of export proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on cap i tal receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Under an Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises under tak ing new inves tment projects may be granted a five-year, 90 per cent du ty exemption on imports of raw materials and mach inery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 per cent exemption on distributable profits, and a protective tar iff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for a fur ther two years in certain circumstances. Gold Residents may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Lands and Mines; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes during 1979 December 28. Trade sanctions against Rhodesia were lifted. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamah i r iya is the Libyan Dinar. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is LD 0.296053 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya publishes da i ly buy ing and selling rates for 15 cur- rencies.1 It deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Cen- tral Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1979 were LD 0.29531 buy ing and LD 0.29679 selling, per US$1; for the pound sterling the rates were LD 0.66451 buy ing and LD 0.66785 selling, per £ stg. 1. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in for- eign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the General People's Com- mittee for the Economy. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Certain commercial settlements with Turkey are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. All settlements with the People's Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is ga infu l ly employed in the country is permitted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars w i th any autho- rized bank. Legitimate earnings of such nonresidents, including overtime payments, can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits on such accounts see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. Funds brought in by nonresident contractors under- tak ing contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank. Pay- ments received by contractors in respect of their con- tracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remit- tances f rom these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the prescribed evidence. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (w i th certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya up to LD 500 a year to cover the costs of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his coun try of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar y e a r ); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qualify for remit- tance in f u ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- ta in exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; balances credited pr ior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from the People's Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports for trade purposes are undertaken exclusively by state-owned enterprises, although resident and non- resident firms undertaking development projects may import items needed to fu r ther the execution of the project. All imports are subject to licensing. The import of some items, including alcoholic bever- ages and narcotics, is prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities are restricted, including fru it juice, i n f a nt food, diet items for diabetics, biscuits, sweets, chocolate, cheese, butter, cream, vegetable oil, camel fodder, cement, iron reinforcements, timber for build- ing purposes, sanitary articles, taps, tiles, plaster, electric household appliances, television sets and accessories, video sets, detergents, fu rn i tu re, batteries, weapons, and explosives. Only government agencies may act as com- mercial agents, inc lud ing import agents, for foreign com- panies. A state-owned company has a monopoly over the import of gold and precious metals. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and an import license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from a local insur- ance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA the import of consumer du rab le goods may be opened by an authorized bank w i thout ob ta in ing a cash m a rg in of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must present to the bank g r an t ing the exchange perm i t, w i th in two mon ths of customs clearance, a customs dec lara t ion con f i rm ing clearance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for advance paymen ts. Deferred payments ( for up to 90 days after customs clearance) and payments for cons ignment sh ipmen ts may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs duty and to customs surcharges to ta l ing 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve applications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to LD 100 in a calendar year for meeting genuine per- sonal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature, inc lud ing fam i ly assistance and gifts. They may also approve allocations for travel as indicated below, as well as transfers to residents unde r tak ing studies abroad, up to limits prescribed for var ious countries, plus tu i t ion fees, an allowance for books, etc. Remittances f rom nonresident accounts ma in ta ined by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each month; for those workers whose contracts specify that lodging and /or board will be made available free of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are permitted. A nonresident wife or the wife of a non- resident, when employed in the country, are each per- mitted to remit abroad up to 90 per cent of net salary each month. Banks may issue travelers checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and tech- nicians within the limits mentioned. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank. Such nonresidents may take with them when going abroad on vacation or on final departure certain goods, the value of which is not deducted from the balances in their nonresident accounts; a nonresident may also export one auto- mobile dur ing his stay in the country. All other pay- ments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require prior approval from the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 (LD 10 for children under 12); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the country, but are intended for immediate expenses upon return. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 248 for ch i ld ren under 12) 2 in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Add i t ional amounts may be granted in special circum- stances. Dur ing 1979 p i lgr ims were entitled to a special quota of LD 1,000 a resident adu lt and LD 500 a child under 12. For business travel, residents may take out the equ iva lent of LD 1,000 a trip, subject to a maximum of LD 2,500 in a calendar year. All fares may be settled in Libyan d inars. Temporary residents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and for commodities which are not of L ibyan origin. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of ship- ment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing ab road ), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are also prohibited. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding LD 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, securi- ties, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in un l im i t ed amounts. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Foreign participation in indus tr ial ventures set up after March 20, 1970 is per- mitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks 2 With effect f rom February 1980 the basic travel allowance was increased to LD 750 for an adult and LD 375 for a child under 12. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution have been na t iona l ized. Commercial firms have been L ibyan ized in v a ry ing degrees, and 51 per cent or more of the Libyan interests of the international oil com- panies have been nationalized. Real estate may be sold only to Libyans, other than in exceptional circumstances. The net sales proceeds a f ter tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are transferable, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. Residents tak ing up perma- nent residence abroad are permitted to transfer up to LD 5,000 for a fam i ly; applications may be submitted for the release of the balance of their assets over a LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA numb er of years. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. An official entity, the Com- mercial Gold Fund imports processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals. The Gold Fund sells gold in bars to domestic goldsmiths for manu fac tu re at prices announced f rom t ime to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1979 July 2. It was announced that import licenses would no longer be issued to the private sector. October 2. Imports from the People's Republic of Ch ina were prohibited. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. Between its currency and the French franc, the interven- tion currency, Madagascar maintains a fixed rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates for the French f ranc are FMG 49.75 and FMG 50.25, respectively, per F 1. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for seven other currencies1 based on the buying and selling rates for the French f ranc in various exchange markets. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1979 were FMG 200.00 and FMG 202.01, respectively, per US$1. The author- ized banks are not permitted to maintain an exchange position in any foreign currency although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar itself are consid- ered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by resi- dents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward investments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized inter- mediaries, and all exchange transactions re la t ing to for- eign countries must be effected through such interme- diaries. Import licenses, including those for gold, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the M in- istry of Economy^and Commerce. Export authorizations are issued either by that Directorate or by other specified public agencies. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries which may deal with the Cen- tral Bank only in French francs or in the other quoted currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the For- eign Account in Malagasy Francs. These accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Account, balances in which may be used by the holder for personal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 250 and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Imports and Import Payments Importers require the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce before they are permitted to engage in import activities. Imports are grouped into two broad categories: those authorized within the framework of the annu al import program and those that are pro- hibited. There are two categories of quotas, those open to merchants and those open to industrial enterprises and other importers who are final users of the product. Imports of f r u it juices are conditional upon purchases of domestic f ru it juices. The import of certain items, inc lud ing alcoholic beverages, rice, wheat flour, vege- table oils, and cement, is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the government-owned trad- ing firms (Roso, SINPA, and SONACO). All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The settlement of all import transactions is subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. This Central Bank authorization for each transaction is represented by a certificate, issued by the commercial bank concerned, which is required to clear the merchandise through customs. The import license entitles importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange (but not earlier than eight days before sh ipment when a documentary credit is opened). Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance and Planning. For some transactions the approval authority has been dele- gated to authorized intermediaries, either up to specified l im i ts or for any amount that is properly documented. Residents may purchase foreign exchange for tcurism equ iva lent to FMG 75,000 a person a trip, for up to two tr ips a year (FMG 35,000 for children under ten ), a l though an i n d i v i d u al can use the entire annual limit of FMG 150,000 if he undertakes to make only one trip du r ing the year. Any foreign exchange remaining after re turn to Madagascar must be surrendered. For business travel fo re ign exchange may be purchased up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a m ax imum of FMG 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of tr ips a year. Authorized banks may not sell foreign banknotes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist or business travel. Applications for additional amounts, and appli- cations for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the M in is t ry of Finance and P lann ing. Applications for additional foreign exchange for bona fide business trips and for medical treatment abroad are generally approved, but not for tourism. Allocations for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution d i f f e r ent types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are l im i ts for educational expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are transferable in fu ll when d i s t r ibu ted by i n d u s t r i al firms and up to 75 per cent in other cases; they may be transferred only to nonresident physical or jur id ical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty. There are adm in i s t ra t ive delays connected w i th the remittance of d iv idends which have led to some accumu la t ion of arrears. The t ran s fer of savings f rom wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and emp loyment permit, and provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 per cent of the net salary for bachelors and persons hav ing their f am i ly in Madagascar, and up to 45 per cent for those whose f am i ly lives outside Madagascar (100 per cent for both categories d u r i ng leave spent outside Madagas- c a r ); in all cases, the transferab le amount may not exceed FMG 300,000 a person a mon th. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign coun- tries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank- notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remain- ing foreign banknotes and coin and other foreign means of payment declared by them on en try. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to all destinations require an export perm it (autorisation a" exportation) issued by the Directorate of External Trade or the appropriate commodity stabili- zation office. Export proceeds received in foreign cur- rencies must be surrendered; such proceeds normally must become due not later than one mon th af ter arrival of the goods at their destination unless the Directorate of the Treasury waives this requirement. All export transactions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized in termed iary and the exporter must sign a comm i tment to repatriate the for- eign currency proceeds. The government-owned trad ing firms (COROI, Roso, SICE, SINPA, SONACO, SOMACODIS) have a monopoly over exports of certain important commodities such as coffee, cloves, pepper, bu t ter beans, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repa- triated w i th in one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy banknotes. MADAGASCAR and P lann ing. Special controls are maintained over bor- rowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Madagascar,2 require prior approval of the M in is ter of Finance and Planning (the Directorate of the Treasury). Malagasy direct inves tmen ts abroad:! are prohibited without special au thor iza t ion f rom the M in i s t ry of Finance and Plan- n ing. The total or par t ial liquidation of such invest- men ts must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and P lann ing. Both the m a k i ng and the l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts, whe ther these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days following each transac t ion. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company, but such par- ticipation is subject to prior declaration to the Ministry of Finance and P lann ing. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance and P lann ing. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion are operations in connection w i th shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and P l ann ing, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit ins t i tu t ions with special legal status are exempt. Lending abroad is subject to author- ization by the M i n i s t ry of Finance and Planning. In accordance w i th the Investment Code of Septem- ber 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special impor tance for the economy may be granted preferential trea tment in accordance w i th an "order of approval1' (arrete d'agrement}. Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qua l ify ing for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participa- tion contract (contrat de participation). Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Exempt from this require- ment are ( I) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Finance 2 Including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. 3 Including those made th rough fore ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR Cen tral B a n k; (2) impo r ts and exports of m anu f a c tu r ed articles c o n t a i n i ng a m i n or q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t i c l e s ); and ( 3) impor ts by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a f am i ly and n um i sm a t ic items up to 200 grams a f am i l y. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt f rom license, are subject to customs declaration. New ly m in ed gold mu st be surrendered to the Direc- torate of Indu s t ry and M ines, which, in principle, must de l iver it to the Cen t ral Bank a f ter processing. Changes during 1979 January L Import du t ies were s u b s t a n t i a l ly increased on a wide range of commodities. October 15. The Central Bank announced that the settlement of all import transactions would henceforth be subject to pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the Central Bank. For each transaction the commercial bank concerned wou ld then be authorized to issue a certificate which would be required to clear the merchandise through customs. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ma lawi is the Malawi Kwacha wh ich is pegged to the SDR at MK 1.054074 = SDR 1. The m idd le rate of the Ma lawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Ma lawi is de term ined on the basis of the da i ly calcu- lations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1979 the Reserve Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 0.7976 and MK 0.8036, respec- t ive ly, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buy ing and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche ma rk, and the pound sterling, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates in the London market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the M in is ter of Trade, Indus t ry, and Tourism, who also is responsible for the issue of impo rt and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents (other than residents of Rhode s ia1) may be made in Ma lawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign cu r rency2 traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries (except Rhodesia1) may be received in Malawi kwacha f rom a nonresident account or in any convertible fore ign cur- rency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds f rom sales of any convertible fore ign currency, w i th authorized payments in Malawi kwacha by residents to foreign countries, and w i th transfers f rom other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonres ident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for pay- ments to the account holder while he is temporar i ly resident in Malawi. External Accounts—Rhodesia1 are accounts in Ma lawi kwacha that are held by persons regarded as residents of Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by residents of any coun try other 1 Sanctions against Rhodesia were l i f ted on J anu a ry 17, 1980. - Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. than Malawi. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control au thor i t ies. No rma l ly, approval is given for the invest- ment of balances of Blocked Accounts in an approved manne r. The interest on Blocked Account balances is f ree ly t ran s fe rab le to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The impo rt f rom Rhodesia of asbestos, iron ore, pig i ron, chrome, tobacco, copper, and hides and skins is prohibited.1 For a number of items,3 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods may be imported under an open general license when o r ig ina t ing in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the GATT (except P o l a n d ). For other countries ( i n c l u d i ng Po land) an import license is required for all commodities except ce r ta in items that are free f rom l icens ing irrespective of o r ig in, such as petrgjeum prod- ucts, exposed cinematographic films, bona fide unsolic- ited g i f ts under MK 50 in value, samples, and adver- t i s ing materials. Except with the permission of the exchange control authorities, payments for imports f rom all countries must be made af ter the arrival of the goods in Malawi. App l ica t ions for fore ign exchange for these payments are referred to the exchange control authorities for for- mal approval subject only to the presentation of relevant import documents. Any transfer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Payments against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange are not per- mitted. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any con- ver t ib le currency. An advance deposit equivalent to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods is required in respect of certain imports. The deposit must be made at the t ime orders are placed through the commercial banks; the deposits are kept in interest-bearing accounts at the commercial banks and are released at the time the payment for the import is being effected. A surtax of 20 per cent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of origin; the surtax is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs du ty purposes and any customs duty payable. For certain impo r ts that are channeled through clearing agents and brokers, a prepayment of 50 per cent of the applicable port duties and clearing charges is required. 3 Certain agr icu l tural and food products, new (m i l i tary type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, p r in t ing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbe r ing stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammun i t ion, game traps, mist nets, w i ld animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to cer ta in l im i ts, for other purposes such as travel, is provided by authorized dealers w i thout prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adu l t, with a max imum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each child under 18 years of age, w i th a max imum of MK 300 a calendar year for ch i ldren between 10 and 18, and of MK 200 a year for children under 10. A n n u al allowances are not cumula- t ive but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance du r ing the preceding three years. Allocations are subject to a combined max imum of MK 2,000 a year for a f am i ly trave l ing together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK400 a t r ip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education, medical treatment, and fam i ly remittances. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard alloca- tions may be subm i t ted to the exchange control author- ities. Foreign nationals employed in Ma lawi on con- tracts and ho ld ing a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their coun try of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi currency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in va lue are not allowed, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been mad% or w i ll be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months after the date of exportation. Certain commodities4 are sub- ject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign cur- rency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no l im i ta t ion on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coin may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. This is normally granted, provided that the terms of repay- ment are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are 4 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 254 controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate the ir investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the or ig inal investment was made with funds b r o u 2 ht in to the coun t ry; there are no restrictions on the t ran s fer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign- owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing. Residents may not purchase any foreign securities w i thout specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, w i th certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is fe lt there is excessive recourse to local borrowing and that a firm has brought in insuff ic ient working capi- tal from abroad. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be subm i t ted to the exchange control authorities for app rova l: ( 1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or ma r r ied. (2) Marr ied persons under 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on depar ture, together w i th MK 500 for each ch i ld, up to a m a x im um of MK 8,000 for a family. (3) Unma r r ied persons under 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emi- gran t's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new coun try of residence a sum equal to the o r ig inal emigration allowance on each anniversary of his depa r tu re f rom Ma law i, up to a m a x im um of MK 8,000. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Ma lawi for num i sma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Impor ts of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tou r ism in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1979 July J. Customs duties on a wide range of items were increased and the rate of surtax was raised from 15 per cent to 20 per cent. August JO. All imports became subject to a 20 per cent advance import deposit requirement calculated on the basis of the c.i.f. value of the import. August JO. The Reserve Bank instructed all clearing agents to collect a prepayment of 50 per cent of the applicable port duties and clearing charges on imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Malaysia is the Malaysian Ringgit. The external value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of cur- rencies of Malaysia's major t rad ing partners. The exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, is determined in the foreign exchange market, and the Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes in order to promote relative stability in the va lue of the ringgit in relation to the basket of cur- rencies. Rates for all other currencies are determined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 31, 1979 were M$2.1883 and M$2.1890, respec- tively, per US$1. The commercial banks are free to de term ine and quote exchange rates for all currencies to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Ar t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malay- sia,1 the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the authority for approving payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day adm in is tra t ion of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jo in t ly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made either in ringgit through an External Account, or in any currency other than Israeli, Rhodesian, and South African currencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa must be obtained accord- ing to the time of payment specified in the commercial contract but subject to a max imum period of six months f rom the date of exportation, either in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia or in any specified currency. Special regula- tions apply to settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are treated as nonresident accounts and, iThe three territories of Malaysia are Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak. Labuan is a free port. unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to Exter- nal Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever purpose are freely perm i t ted subject only to the com- pletion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$5,000; the proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amoun ts exceeding M$5,000 and up to M$2 million, permission may be given by commercial banks; above M$2 m i l l ion, permission is given by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Balances on Ex ternal Accounts may be t rans fe r red to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli, Rhodesian, and South African currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are designated as Israel Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and South A f r ican Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tar iffs and import controls of the varjous parts of Malaysia have been fu l ly unified, although a permit is still required for the movement of a few goods between the three territories of Malaysia for reasons of health and also to protect a few local industries in Sabah and Sarawak. Most imports are permitted freely. Depend- ing on the na tu re and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Cer ta in other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local indus tr ies; these restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports from Israel, Rhodesia, South Afr ica, or any te r r i to ry administered by any one of these countries are to ta l ly proh ib i ted. Imports from the People's Republic of Ch ina are subject to specific license, and applications to impo rt must be submitted through PERNAS, except for items subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports f rom the German Democratic Republic and North Korea also require specific licenses. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to specific l icens ing w i th quan t i ta t ive restriction. Movements of l ive an ima ls between Pen insu lar Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement permits issued by the Ve te r ina ry Department. Imports of live animals (except sheep and goa ts), bones, and bone meal from Brunei, Burma, Indonesia, Democratic Kampuchea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Thailand, and Viet Nam require a specific license. Imports of primates are pro- hibited f rom all sources, except under specific license. Payment for permitted imports is allowed after exchange control requirements have been met. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA V i r t u a l ly a ll imports in to Malaysia ( i n c l u d i ng Penang but exc lud ing L a b u a n) are subject to a surtax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Some essential goods, such as rice, salt, and kerosene, are exempt, and a drawback may be gran ted on goods in tended for re-export or for export a f ter processing. In addition, most imports into Malaysia (excluding L abu an) are subject to a sales tax; the stand- ard rate of tax is 5 per cent but for certain l u x u ry goods it is 10 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica may be made w i th- out restriction a f ter exchange control requirements have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made ava i lab le for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide inves tmen ts are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$5,000. Unless special permis- sion is obtained, not more than M$5,000 in Malaysian notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers. There are no restrictions on the export of currency notes of other countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are totally prohibited. The customs areas and export con- trol systems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Exchange control fo rms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports va lued at M$5,000 f.o.b. or more ( for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except where exports are valued af more than M$ 100,000). Proceeds f rom exports must be received according to the t ime of pay- ment specified in the commercial contract but subject to a max imum period of six months f rom the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained f rom the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber f rom Pen in su lar Malay- sia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of cement, scrap iron, steel bars, fo rm ic acid, wheat flour, rice b ran, and sugar are subject to licensing, and licenses for these and a few other items (such as fe r t i l ize rs and pig i ron) may be denied. Also subject to l icens ing are exports of all textiles, certain confectionery items, tiles, fish meal, bricks, "dollar area goods," all commodities used in barter trade, and o ther goods as specified in the second schedule of the Customs (Proh ib i t ion of Expor ts) Order, 1978, of the 1967 Customs Act. Proceeds from invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. Travelers may br ing in up to M$ 10,000 in Ma lays ian currency notes; otherwise, permission is required for the import of 256 Ma lays ian notes. No l im i ta t ions are imposed on the impo rt by travelers of currency notes of other countries. Capital Inwa rd inves tment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regard ing the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of invest- ments may be repatriated free ly on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control formalities for amounts above M$5,000. Malaysian residents require approval for borrowings from nonresidents in either ringgit or in foreign currencies in excess of M$ 100,000. Companies in Malaysia controlled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 w i thout exchange control approva l. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfolio inves tment by Malaysian residents in countries other th an Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any fo rm other than gold that has been materially increased in v a lue by skilled craftsmanship. The manufac ture, impo r t, or export of gold coin is prohibited, as is domes- tic t rad ing in gold coin other than the following gold coins of Malaysian currency: M$100 (Tunku Abdul R a hm a n ), M$200 (Third Malaysia P l a n ), M$200 (N i n th South East Asian Games ), M$250 (Employees Prov ident F u n d ), M$500 (W i ld l i fe Conservation), and the S$150 gold coin issued by the Singapore Board of Commissioners of Currency. Resident and nonresident travelers, however, may br ing in or take out, on their person, one piece each of the M$100 (Tunku Abdul R a hm a n ), M$200 (Th ird Malaysia P l a n ), and M$250 (Emp loyees Provident F u n d) gold coins. A traveler may also b r ing in on his person one M$500 (W i ld l ife Conse rva t ion) gold coin. The export of th is M$500 gold co in in any m a n n er is proh ib i ted. The import and export of the M$200 (N i n th South East Asian Games) gold co in, however, is unrestricted. In add i t ion, each trave ler is allowed to br ing in f rom any coun t ry outside Malaysia one S$150 gold coin of Singapore currency, and each t r a v e l er may take out one such coin, but on ly to Singa- pore. Licensed goldsmiths are permitted by the exchange con t rol authorities to purchase certain quantities of gold f r om an authorized dealer at local free ma rket prices for the m a n u f a c t u re of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Fur thermore, producers of gold are permitted to sell their ou tput at local f ree market prices to authorized dealers in gold. Impor ts of gold are restricted under the Customs Act, 1967, and requ ire licenses f rom the M in is try of Trade and Indu s t ry. Permission for imports of gold in any fo rm other th an jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is norma l ly not given except for imports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by authorized dealers in gold to meet the genu ine requ iremen ts of goldsmiths for manu fac tu r ing jewelry and ornamen ts and for industrial use. Imports are allo- cated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender system; successful tenderers must pay a premium to the Government. Imports are not dutiable and a 5 per cent surtax, although payable, was not collected on gold imports in 1979. However, a sales tax of 5 per cent ad valorem is still in force. The sale of gold by domestic producers is subject only to the sales tax. Exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry, constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited under the exchange control regulations; any export licenses that might be issued for gold or gold coin would require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1979 March 1. Manufac turers of textile, food, and wood products who were also exporters were granted a pre- shipment facility for financing exports. The m in imum amount of each refinancing was fixed at M$30,000 and the max imum period was three months; the rate of inter- est was 7.5 per cent per annum. April 23. The amount of Malaysian notes that trav- elers might bring into or take out of the country was raised from M$ 1,000 to M$ 10,000 and M$5,000, respec- tively. The restriction on the export of currency notes of other countries was lifted. MALAYSIA June 1. Foreign exchange control regulations were liberalized. Only payments to nonresidents of M$5,000 or more would require the completion of exchange con- trol forms, compared with the former l im it of M$ 1,000. Authorized banks were delegated au thor i ty to approve paymen ts to nonresidents, except to residents of Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica up to a limit of M$2 m i l l ion, compared w i th M$l million previously, and to approve both the repayment of loans obtained f rom nonresidents and the payment of interest on such loans. Borrowing from nonresidents was freely permitted up to M$ 100,000. October 18. As part of the budget proposals, the export du ty structure for rubber, t in, and pepper was revised. November 14. The preshipment export refinancing fac i l i ty was expanded to inc lude rubber and plastic prod- ucts, footwear, metal products, sports goods, and f u r n i- ture, all manu fac tu red in Malaysia. A supporting letter of credit was no longer required for preshipment export refinancing. The standard en route periods for postship- ment export refinancing were extended to allow for the t ime required for the payment for the export bill to be collected and confirmed. The m in imum amount of each ref inanc ing was reduced f rom M$30,000 to M$20,000 for both the preshipment and the postshipment export refinancing facilities. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rupee. U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and certain other curren- cies circulate freely along with the Maldivian rupee. In principle, the exchange rate of the Maldivian rupee is determined on the basis of demand and supply condi- tions in the exchange market where transactions mainly take place in banknotes and travelers checks. No mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions are officially maintained. However, since April 1979 the State Trad- ing Organization has intervened by instructing the com- mercial banks to buy foreign exchange at the rate of Mai Rs 7.50 per US$1. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates quoted by the commercial banks were Mai Rs 7.50 and Mai Rs 7.60, respectively, per US$1. A separate exchange rate arises as a result of a requirement that private exporters surrender 50 per cent of their receipts from exports of dry salted bonito fish at a rate of Mai Rs 3.93 per US$1.1 With the exception of the above multiple currency practice, there are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Th e re is a lso an o f f i c i al a c c o u n t i ng r a te of Mai Rs 3.93 = US$1 which does not apply to foreign exchange transactions but is used to account for the price in domestic currency of goods imported and exported by the State Trading Organization, and for foreign exchange transfers within the Government. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. In the absence of a central Ibank, exchange and trade controls are administered by the Department of Finance, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency There are no rules prescribing the currencies in which transactions between residents and nonresidents must be settled. In practice, all receipts by tourist resorts and guest houses are in U.S. dollars. No bilateral payments agreements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments The importation of alcoholic beverages and a few other items is restricted for reasons of public policy. Imports are subject to licensing only if undertaken to match licensed exports of domestic products (see sec- tion on Exports and Export Proceeds, below).2 Import licenses, where required, are issued freely. Foreign 1 This requirement was eliminated with effect from April 26, 1980. 9 All imports, exports, and re-exports were made subject to licensing with effect from January 1980. 258 exchange needed to effect payments for licensed and unlicensed imports by the private sector must be obtained in the foreign exchange market. Most staple commodities (including rice, sugar, wheat flour, and petroleum products) are imported by the State Trading Organization. Payments for Invisibles The private sector may make payments for all current invisibles through the foreign exchange market. Pay- ments by the public sector are made from the Govern- ment's foreign exchange account. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency, without any restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds The Government has a monopoly, operated by the State Trading Organization, over the export of fresh fish and "Maldive fish." Private sector exports of all other domestic products require licenses. These are not normally withheld, but exporters are required to import commodities equivalent to the foreign exchange value of their exports within one year. Temporary exemption from this regulation can be obtained in connection with the export of new products. Export proceeds other than 50 per cent of the receipts from dry salted bonito fish, which must be surrendered, are freely disposable through the foreign exchange market.1 Re-exports are exempt from both export licensing2 and the requirement of matching the transaction with future imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign currency, without any restriction. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval. Transfers of profits are permitted and tax exemptions may be granted for a period of up to ten years. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold do not require licenses. Changes during 1979 August 6. A 50 per cent surrender requirement at the rate of Mai Rs 3.93 per US$1 was imposed on receipts from private exports of dry salted bonito fish. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ma li is the Ma li Franc, wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the in terven t ion currency, at the rate of MF 1 = F0 .01. There is also a fixed rate for CFA f rancs of MF 2 = CFAF 1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the French f ranc are MF 100 per F 1. All exchange transactions in French francs take place at that official rate. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are off ic ia l ly quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole au tho r i ty in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The Central Bank of Mali is responsible for the control over repatriation of export proceeds. The bilateral pay- ment agreement accounts are operated by the Develop- ment Bank of Mali.1 Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic A f f a i rs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agree- ments. Since Mali is an Operations Account coun try, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Ma li francs, French francs, or the currency of any Opera- tions Account country. Settlements w i th a ll other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are no rm a l ly made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. 1 Mali maintains bilateral accounts with People's Republic of China, Hungary, Morocco, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. The payments arrange- ments w i th Hunga ry and Morocco are inoperative. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are, in pr inc ip le, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of a few commodities are prohibited for hea l th, safety, and s im i lar reasons, and licenses are not no rm a l ly issued for certain other goods. Imports origi- na t ing in a coun t ry of the West A f r ican Economic C omm u n i ty and some imports f rom EC countries of basic necessities require only an import certificate. Impor ts of all other goods require individual licenses, and imports f rom foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. A license is valid for six mon ths bu t, if necessary, may be extended for a further three mon ths. Imports f rom Israel, Korea, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual impo rt program. The program consists of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the convertible area (defined as comprising all other coun- tries, inc lud ing the countries in the former French Franc A r e a ). Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne d'Import-Export (SOM IEX) is the most important, hav- ing a monopoly over the import of a number of items.2 AH impor ts f rom and exports to countries that have payments agreements with Ma li are made by SOMIEX. The Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali (OPAM) has a monopoly over the import and export of cereals. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each p r iva te impor ter on the basis of his turnover. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the l im it of that quota. The authorized banks are permitted to make fore ign exchange available for all licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are perm i t ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accru ing to nonresidents in the form of prof i ts, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tour ist travel, residents traveling to countries o ther than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to MF 500,000 a person (MF 250,000 for children under 10), which may be allotted on several occasions during the year; any for- 2 These include cement, flour, milk, salt, soap, sugar, and tea. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI eign exchange rema in ing a f ter re turn to Mali must be surrendered. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of MF 50,000 a day, subject to a max imum of MF 500,000 a trip .8 The t rans fer of the en t ire salary of a fo re igner wo rk ing in Ma li is permitted upon pres- entation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t r an s f er takes place w i t h in three months of the pay period or where there is a reciprocity agreement w i th the fore igner's coun t ry of na t iona l i ty. Res ident trave lers to fore ign coun tr ies may take out up to a m ax imum of MF 50,000 in Ma li banknotes, French banknotes, or bankno tes issued by other Operations Account coun tr ies (MF 5,000 for tr ips of less th an 24 h o u r s ). Nonres ident trave lers may f ree ly take out fore ign bankno tes up to the equ iva lent of MF 200,000; h igher amoun ts may be taken out on ly if declared upon en try. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Ma li banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by other Opera- tions Account countries, and any paymen ts in s t rum en ts d r awn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, i n c l u d i ng those f rom France and other Operations Account coun- tries, must be repatriated and surrendered w i th in 90 days af ter the arrival of the goods at the ir destination. Exports to countries outside the West A f r ican Economic Commun i ty require individual licenses; those to coun- tries of the West Afr ican Economic Commun i ty require only a certificate. The export of cotton and groundnu ts is reserved in principle for SOMIEX and that of meat and hides and skins for the Societe Malienne du Detail, des Peaux et Cuirs (SOMBEPEC ); in practice, hides and skins may also be exported by private firms and ind iv idua ls. The marke t ing of cereals is the responsibility of OPAM. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due 3 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit perm it (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. f r om residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold c o i n) of coun t r ies ou ts ide the former ^French Franc Area. Capital Cap i tal movements between Mali, France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; cap i tal t ran s fe rs to all o ther coun t r ies requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in add i t ion to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, although the Development Bank of Ma li is exempt f rom these controls. The special con- trol measures also do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries. Under an Inves tment Code of March 30, 1976, the Gove rnment may grant special privileged status, provid- ing for t rans fe r, tax, and other preferential treatment to foreign inves tmen ts that would be of special interest to the Ma l ian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coin and ingots, up to a m a x im um weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authorization by the M in i s t ry of Finance and Commerce, but are subject to customs declaration as prescribed by the customs regu- lations. Changes during 1979 June 30. The bilateral trade and payments agreement w i th Egypt was terminated. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Malta is the Malta Pound. The va lue of the Malta pound is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Malta pound and a trade- weighted basket of currencies representing Malta's impor tant trading partners.1 The Central Bank of Malta fixes daily buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, by weighting the var ia t ions in the closing quotations of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the previous day in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. A spread of 0.25 per cent is applied between the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$2.9155 and US$2.9009, respectively, per «£M 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for the deutsche mark, the I ta l ian l ira, and the pound sterling on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle ra te) for the pound sterling on December 31, 1979 was <£ stg. 130.79 per <£M 100. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in Lon- don and New York. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, as agent for the Minister of Finance, Customs, and People's Financial Investments; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the M in is try of Trade. The approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been dele- gated to the authorized banks, which also may give or renew guarantees for any purpose provided they hold fu ll cover in Malta pound deposits for the period of the guarantee. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Malta pounds to an External Account or in any foreign currency ;2 the proceeds of exports to all coun- tries may be received in Malta pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may ma in ta in with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized paymen ts to non- residents, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign cur- 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than Malta pound. the rency (including bankno tes ), and w i th Malta banknotes mailed from abroad. Ex te rnal Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any fore ign currency ( in c lud ing bank- no tes ). Authorized dealers may freely open and ma in ta in Foreign Currency Accoun ts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited w i th paymen ts in fore ign cur- rency to the account holder, w i th t rans fe rs from another fore ign currency account be long ing to a nonresident, and w i th interest payable on fore ign currency accounts. They may be debited for paymen ts by the account holder to residents, for t rans fe rs to other Foreign Currency Accounts, and for transfers abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are sub- ject to specific licensing. Imports of certain commod- ities are either prohibited or restricted. Imports other than those that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be made f ree ly under open general license. Imports of some 20 commpdities, regarded as essential, are subject to state trading. These include t inned m i lk, bu t ter, meat, livestock for slaughter, wheat, barley, corn, potatoes, soybean oil, rice, sugar, t inned meat and fish, cheese, coffee, tea, f ru i t, cement, steel, and timber. Payments for all authorized impor ts may be made free ly, provided that the prescription of cur- rency regu la t ions are complied w i th and that suppor t ing documen ts, in c lud ing the customs en try fo rm, are sub- m i t ted to the in te rmed ia ry bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles requ ire the approval of the exchange control authorities but approval authority for most types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. For residents there is a standard exchange allo- cation for tourist travel of the equivalent of <£M 250 a person a tr ip, and a business travel allowance of <£M 250 a t r ip or <£M 50 a day ( for up to 30 days a t r i p ), which- ever is the larger. There is also an allowance for educa- t ional expenses abroad of <£M 3,000 a person for an academic year.3 Applications for allowances in excess of these amoun ts are approved by the Central Bank if it is satisfied that no i l l ic it capital outflow is involved. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of for- eign currency and may export foreign currency up to the amount brought in by them and declared to the customs authorities on en t ry into Malta. In addition, any trav- eler may export up to <£M 25 in Malta notes and coin. The t rans fer of profits, dividends, and interest from 3 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, resi- dents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta and either have lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA approved foreign investments requires Central Bank per- mission, which is normally given, af ter compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted with nonresidents lawfully engaged in insurance business in Malta, provided the policy is made for a term exceeding five years and is not linked to equity or property units. Remittances for the maintenance of dependents abroad are allowed on appli- cation showing evidence of hardship. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essen- tial goods, all commodities may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to the EC are subject to licensing. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered within six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes, but without an authorization by the Minister of Finance, importation of any notes and coin which are or have been legal tender in Malta is per- mitted only up to <£M 50. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts, although receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments abroad of a capital na ture require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by residents and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents are considered on their merits. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Nonresidents) Act, 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,4 with the exception of certain special cases mainly related to economic development. Applica- tions for the acquisition of property for use as a resi- dence by individuals who do not already hold property in Malta are given favorable consideration. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve the acquisition of foreign investments up to the equivalent of <£M 500 a person a calendar year by resident persons over 18. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta in excess of the «£M500 limit require prior exchange control approval. Foreign nationals who take up residence outside Malta normally are allowed to transfer all their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emi- grate may transfer abroad up to £M 7,500 for each family; any excess amount is normally released three years after the date of departure on application to the * For the purpose of this Act, the term nonresidents means (1) in- dividuals who are not residents of Malta; (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is regis- tered outside Malta, or (b) it has its principal place of residence or of business outside Malta, or (c) 20 per cent or more of its share or other capital is owned by a nonresident person, or (d) it is in any manner, and whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. 262 Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to bor- row and lend only outside Malta, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 22 gold coins which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coin and to acquire jewelry but they require exchange control permission to pur- chase and sell any gold coin that is not legal tender. The import of gold coin is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coin, gold bullion, and manufactured or semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Authorized importers are permitted to import gold bu l l ion only for the purpose of supplying jewelers and other indus tr ial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coin are free of import duty. Changes during 1979 January 24. A one-year trade agreement with Senegal was signed; it was renewable f rom year to year by tacit agreement unless written notice of its termination were given by one of the contracting parties. March 12. The basket of currencies, to which the Malta pound was pegged, was revised; the Japanese yen was added to the basket and the weights of the Italian lira, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar were reduced, while those of the other currencies were raised. April 16. It was announced that the purchase of for- eign exchange by residents for travel abroad in excess of the standard amounts would require Central Bank approval; the allocation for business and official travel was increased to <£M 50 a day for up to 30 days a trip. May 4. The export licensing system was streamlined. All commodities, except works of art and certain essen- tial goods, might now be exported freely; previously, a license was required for the exportation of most com- modities. However, in view of the restraints imposed by the EC on exports of certain categories of textiles from Malta, the authorities retained specific licensing for the items concerned. May 31. Effective May 31, 1979 through the end of the year, exports of the following items from Malta to the EC were made subject to a system of "Community Surveillance"; the items included cotton yarn, cotton and synthetic fabric, knitted shirts, vests, and T-shirts, knitted jerseys, cardigans, pullovers, etc., shorts and trousers, knitted and woven blouses and shirt blouses, woven shirts, woven pajamas, and nightdresses, and industrial and occupational clothing. July 5. The ban on the import of textiles from the United Kingdom was lifted. August 20. The list of items which could be imported only by the Ministry of Trade was extended by the addi- tion of rice, sugar, canned meat, canned fish, cheese, coffee, and timber. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Maur i tan ia is the Mau r i tan ian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is deter- mined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Netherlands guilder, the pound sterling, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to each currency are based on that currency's relative importance in Mauritania's total exchange transactions, and are revised every three months. The opening spot rates of the basket currencies against the U.S. dollar on the Paris exchange market are then compared with the exchange rates prevailing on specified base dates. The arithmetic average of the sum of the weighted variations arising from this comparison results in either a plus or a minus overall variation of the U.S. dollar in terms of the other basket currencies; this variation is then applied to the ouguiya-U.S. dollar rate prevailing on June 29, 1973 (UM 46.041 = US$1), thus obtaining the refer- ence rate for the dollar on the specific day. The da i ly exchange rate for 16 other currencies,1 including the currencies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange market. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1979 were UM 45.50 and UM46 .19, respectively, per US$1. A special exchange rate applies to transactions in banknotes between the ouguiya and the French franc, the CFA franc, and the Mali franc corresponding to UM 1 = F0.10. On December 31, 1979 this was equivalent to a rate between the ouguiya and the U.S. dollar of UM 45.85 = US$1.2 Mauritania confines the official exchange rate for the ouguiya within margins of 4.5 per cent; at present, it applies margins of zero per cent in respect of exchange transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance. The Central Bank has delegated some approval authority to authorized banks. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce. All import licenses require exchange control approval by the Central Bank. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, CFA francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mali francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 The fixed rate for banknotes was eliminated in March 1980. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Settlements with other countries usually take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts in domestic currency: Convertible Accounts, which may be credited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency or transfers f rom other Convertible Accounts, and Internal Nonresident Accounts, which may be credited with domestic banknotes. Convertible Accounts may be debited for any payment without Central Bank approval, but payments to and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign banknotes without special approval from the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer- exporter cards are permitted to engage in import trans- actions. Imports of all commodities must be authorized by the Central Bank. The National Import-Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. Although there is no formal import program, authoriza- tions can be denied if the volume of imports in any period is deemed excessive. There are some arrears on import payments. Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except in the case of imports "without payment." Af ter the approval of the Central Bank has been obtained, the import license entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already arrived. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of import bills quoting f.o.b. or c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance Company ( SMAR ). There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has delegated its approval authority for certain specified payments to authorized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA t e n ). There are special arrangements for travel to neighboring countries. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The t ran s fer of savings f rom salaries by foreigners work ing in M au r i t an ia is permitted up to varying per- centages, according to f am i ly status. At the end of their stay in Mau r i tan ia, they may transfer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange pro- ceeds. Exports to all countries require authorization and endorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the payment, which must not normally be more than 60 days after shipment. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX, and exports of iron ore and copper concentrates are the monopoly of SNIM. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in two months of the due date of the payment. The importa- tion of domestic banknotes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are sub- ject to exchange control; capital transfers to all coun- tries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in Mau r i tan ia3 and Mauritanian direct inves tmen ts abroad,4 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects w i th in a period of 15 days from receipt of the declaration. The f u ll or par t ial liquidation of inward or outward invest- ment also requires a declaration. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Mauri- tan ian investments abroad or foreign investments in Mau r i tan ia, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authorization by the Central Bank, as does borrowing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 79046 of March 15, 1979) provides for various benefits for private investments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and dividends accruing f rom such investment can be transferred freely. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and of manufactured articles con- ta in ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes during 1979 March 75. A new Ordinance on Investment Promo- tion was promulgated (Decree No. 79046). Companies based in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou would be exempted from all import duties for 7 years ( for 12 years for those based elsewhere). There were certain requirements related to the number of Mauritanians employed in each firm. Unimpeded transfer of profits and dividends was guaranteed, provided that the initial investment was made in convert'Ne currencies. Any f u t u re expropriation or nationalization would be equit- ably compensated. Priority would be given to invest- ments in those sectors deemed to be integral parts of the national development plan. ; (Inc lud ing those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Maur i t ius is the Mau r i t ian Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at Mau Rs 10.0 = SDR 1, or SDR 0.1 = Mau Re 1. The mid-rates of the Mau- r i t ian rupee for the pound sterling, the in terven t ion cur- rency, and the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bank of Mau r i t ius are determined on the basis of the da i ly cal- culations of the pound sterling-SDR rate and the U.S. doIIar-SDR rate, respectively. The Bank of Mau r i t ius applies margins of 0.125 per cent to the buy ing rate and 0.25 per cent to the selling rate in respect of exchange transactions in sterling and U.S. dollars, based on the fixed Mauritian rupee-SDR rate. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Mau r i t ius for sterling were Mau Rs 16.8933 and M a uRs 16.9566, respectively, per <£ stg. 1 and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 7.5766 and Mau Rs 7.6033, respectively, per US$1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars at rates based on the rates quoted by the Bank of Mauritius for these currencies. On December 31, 1979 the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for sterling were Mau Rs 16.853 and Mau Rs 17.017, respec- tively, per <£ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 7.553 and Mau Rs 7.657, respectively, per US$1 (for transactions in excess of US$12,000). Buy- ing and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market. Forward exchange fac i l i t ies are made available by the Bank of Maur i t ius for industries oper- ating in the Export Processing Zone and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for on-lending to the sugar sector. The max imum period for forward cover is six months. A stamp duty of 36 per cent is applied to outward transfers of capital (other than bank ing f u n d s) and purchases of gold coin and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mau r i t ius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The au thor i ty for approving practically all current payments is in tu rn delegated to the commercial banks. The M in is try of Commerce and Indu s t ry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes Mau r i t ius dis- tinguishes between countries in the former Sterling A rea2 and External Account countries. Payments to 1 The exchange control regulations of M au r i t ius de f ine foreign cur- rencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. - The exchange control regulations of Maur i t ius define the Sterling Area as comprising the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland. residents of former Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the former Sterling Area. Pay- ments f rom residents of the former Sterling Area may be received in rupees f rom a Sterling Area Account in Mau r i t ius or in any currency of the former Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the fo rmer Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in M au r i t iu s, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency.3 Payments f rom resi- den ts of countries outside the former Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in M au r i t iu s, in sterling f rom an External Account in the Un i ted Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two ma in types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by persons and firms resident in countries of the former Sterling Area,2 may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Maur i t ius; (2) any transfers f rom other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any payments f rom External Accounts held in Maur i t ius or elsewhere in the former Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (o ther than Rhodesian currency) 3 or gold by nonresi- dents of Maur i t ius. They may be debited for ( 1) pay- ments f rom residents of the former Sterling Area to residents of Maur i t ius; (2) transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) transfers to External Accounts in Mau r i t ius or elsewhere in the former Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange con- trol authorities in the appropriate country has been given; and (4) the cost of purchase of any former Sterling Area currency. Ex ternal Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Maur i t ius and the former S te r l ing Area. They may be credited with ( 1) author- ized paymen ts by residents of Mauritius; (2) payments f rom Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities of the appropr ia te country has been given; (3) any transfers f rom other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian cu r r en cy: > >) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the former S ter l ing Area. They may be debited for (1) any pay- ments to residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers to 3 Sanctions against Rhodesia were lifted on February 11, 1980. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency— see footnote 3) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mau r i t ius realized from investments made by them prior to Ap r il 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Mauritius that have been spe- cifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited (see foot- note 3). There is a list of commodities for which a specific license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required, regardless of origin. All other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual traders when imported from countries of the former Sterling Area, as defined before June 23, 1972, but most of these goods require a specific license when imported from non-Sterling Area countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Spe- cific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic require- ments. The issue of a general or specific license auto- matically carries with it exchange control au thor i ty to make the corresponding import payments, subject to compliance wifh the prescription of currency regulations. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges, and there is a stamp duty of 2 per cent based on the c.i.f. value of nonpriority imports. Importers of goods of lower priority may not avail themselves of suppliers' credits, and local commercial banks are prohibited from extending credit for such imports. The contracting of suppliers' credit of more than 90 days' dura t ion in respect of other categories of imports requires the prior approval of the Bank of Mauritius, except for imports effected by means of Development Certificates or by companies in the Export Processing Zone. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to specific limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control author- ities. The basic travel allowance is the equivalent of <£ stg. 400 a person for every two calendar years for travel to any country except Rhodesia (see footnote 3 ). There is a 10 per cent tax on all international air tickets purchased by Mauritian residents. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of <£ stg. 35 a day. 266 App l ica t ions for exchange for business travel are exam ined by the Bank of Mauritius. There are estab- lished limits for payments and transfers to former Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area coun- tries in respect of fam i ly support, salary remittances by non -Mau r i t ian nationals, trade commissions, subscrip- tions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, professional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be sub- mitted to the exchange control authorities. Residents and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of the ir travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited (see footnote 3 ). Also prohibited, unless permission is obtained from the Financial Secretary, are exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) dia- monds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art. All exports valued at more than MauRs 1,000 and all exports of food products valued at over Mau Rs 50 require a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A tax ranging from 6 per cent to 13.5 per cent, plus a surcharge of 75 per cent thereon, is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Maur i t ian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet paymen ts for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than M au r i t i an rupees must be offered for sale to an author- ized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of fore ign currency notes and coin that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coin may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restric- tions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may, subject to permission, transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country except Rhodesia (see footnote 3) on pay- ment of a 36 per cent stamp duty. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capital to any country; transfers are subject to the stamp duty of 36 per cent and, if directed toward a country outside the former Sterling Area by a resident of the former Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the former Sterling Area country concerned. Foreign- owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for repatria- tion of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but, in normal circumstances, it is given for capital brought in on or a f ter that date. Proceeds from the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Em ig ran ts may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 100,000 from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country except Rhodesia (see footnote 3 ); this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an indefinite period to a Blocked Account; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 36 per cent stamp duty. Persons em igra t ing f rom Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes ( inc lud- ing commemorative gold coins of Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coin and gold bullion are subject to the 36 per cent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes during 1979 January 10. The authorities relaxed the prohibition on imports of automobiles, introduced in November 1977, to permit such imports up to the equivalent of 20 per cent of imports during the 12-month period ended November 1977. MAURITIUS February 1. The Bank of Mauritius announced that the contracting of suppliers' credits of a duration exceed- ing 90 days in respect of all imports other than those effected by means of Development Certificates or by companies in the Export Processing Zone would require pr ior approval by the Bank. April 27. The Bank of Mauritius announced that with effect f rom April 30, 1979 importers would not be permitted to obtain any new credit from abroad in respect of "lower-priority" items (defined as an import on which the general duty plus the fiscal duty was in excess of 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value). In the case of credit for lower-priority items already contracted with foreign suppliers prior to April 30, 1979, amounts ou ts tand ing were to be repaid before June 30, 1979. Commercial banks were prohibited from extending credit for lower-priority imports. September 19. The Minister of Commerce and Indu s t ry announced that with effect from October 1, 1979, importers would be required to obtain a permit for the importation of goods and would also be required to pay a fee of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods. Categories of imports exempted from this measure included ( 1) all items on which no duty was charged under the Customs Tariff Act, 1969; (2) all food items; (3) all imports by the Government, local authorities, and parastatal bodies, except for items for sale; (4) machinery and equipment, including spare parts imported for agricultural and irrigational pur- poses; ( 5) machinery and equipment, including spare parts and raw materials imported by companies holding an Export Enterprise Certificate or a Development Certificate; and (6) machinery and equipment, includ- ing spare parts and raw materials, imported by local manu fac tu re rs for fu r ther processing. September 21. The basic travel allowance of <£ stg. 400 was made available to a traveler once every two calendar years, instead of each year. October 23. The Mauritian rupee was depreciated from Mau Rs 7.71379 = SDR 1 to Mau Rs 10.0 = SDR1. November 13. A surcharge of 75 per cent was imposed on the rate of export duty levied on sugar exports. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The c u r r e n cy of Mexico is the Mex ican Peso. The a u t h o r i t i es of Mexico do not m a i n t a in m a rg ins in respect of exchange transac t ions, and exchange rates are de ter- m ined la rge ly on the basis of d em and and s u p p ly cond i- t ions in the exchange ma rke ts. However, the au tho r i t ies in te rvene when necessary to m a i n t a in o rde r ly cond i t ions in the exchange ma rke t. On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l la r, the i n t e r- v en t ion cu r r en cy, were Mex$22.800 and Mex$22.805, respec t ive ly, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo r e ign exchange, and fo re ign exchange may be f ree ly purchased or sold, the re be ing no exchange restrictions of any k i n d. An exchange cover scheme is ava i lab le for selected t ransac t ions; it is operated by the Bank of Mexico a long the l ines of swap arrangements. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared fo rm a l ly to accept the ob l iga t ions of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for paymen ts to or from nonresidents. In accordance with the payments agreement w i th Yugo- slavia, payments for direct commercial transactions and related expenses w i th that country handled through the Mexican b a n k i ng system may, w i th the pr ior au tho r iza- tion of the Bank of Mexico, be made through a special account denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements w i th Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela may be made through account^ maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the coun t ry concerned, within the framework of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA ). Similar arrangements exist for payments between Mexico and the Dominican Republic, between Mexico and Cuba, and between Mexico and Iran. Payments to or f rom Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in U.S. dollars in accordance w i th reciprocal payment agreemen ts between the central banks of those countries. Imports and Import Payments The use of import licenses has been eliminated for about 70 per cent of the items in Mexico's General Impo rt Ta r i f f; in such cases licenses have been replaced by ta r i f fs. Import licenses from the M in is t ry of Com- merce are required, however, for goods accounting for about two thirds of the total value of imports; the issuance of these licenses may be subject to quantitative 268 r e s t r i c t i o n s. For some commod i t ies "open end" import licenses may be g ran ted a l low ing limited imports dur ing a period of t ime f rom six months to a year, subject to the impor ter's performance; repeated renewal of the license is possible. Applications for import licenses are screened by the M in is t ry of Commerce with the aid of adv iso ry counc i ls comp r i s ing importers, producers, and consumers. For a small number of luxu ry items, no licenses are g ran ted. Most impo rt licenses are subject to the payment of a fee of between 1 per cent and 17 per cent of the value of the impo rt transac t ion; the proceeds are allocated to a f u nd hand led by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute ( IMC E) for the promo t ion of exports. Imports by o f f ic ial Mex ican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Impo r ts Committee of the Public Sector (CISP); t h is approval is not given if a comparable domestic e q u i v a l e nt is ava i lab le at a price d ifferen t ial of 15-20 per cen t. Paymen ts and transfers abroad may be made f r e e ly. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's dec la ra t ion of shipment. V ir tua l ly all imports, except impo r ts inc luded in the tar iff negotiation rounds from LAFTA coun tr ies and temporary imports, are subject to an impo rt surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem, the proceeds of wh ich accrue to an export trust fund estab- l ished w i th the Bank of Mexico. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles are not restricted. The con- t rac t ing of in su rance for persons in Mexico, or on prop- e r ty of Mex ican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is perm i t ted only w i th Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance w i th Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Cer ta in exports require licenses. No exchange control requ i remen ts apply to export proceeds. Rebates of ind i rect taxes by means of a system of certificates (certificados de devolution de impuestos or CEDIS) are g ran ted on exports of certain manufac tured and semi- m anu f a c tu r ed produc ts and of certain services. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New foreign investment in the capital of Mexican bank- ing or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution petrochemical production, radioactive m ine ra ls, elec- t r ic i ty and nuc lear energy, cer ta in m i n i ng ac t iv i t ies, ra i l- roads, te lecommun ica t ions, and other activities specified by Mexican laws, are reserved to government inves tmen t. Inves tment in a number of activities is reserved exclu- sively for Mexican ind iv idua ls or corporations ( rad io and television, the pub l ic transpor ta t ion system, forestry, etc., as we ll as any other areas specified by the Federal Gove rnmen t ), wh i le new inves tmen ts in other sectors must have a ma jo r i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion of Mexican c ap i t a l. Foreign investments in Mexico must be registered w i th the Na t ional Foreign Inves tment Register in the M in i s t ry of Na t ional Properties and Indus t r ial Development (SEPAF IN ). Applications by foreign na tural or jur id ical persons to acquire more than 25 per cent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of SEPAFIN, after the National Foreign Investment Com- mission has granted the necessary registration. All acquisitions of stock in Mexican companies by fore igners must be registered w i th in 30 days. Borrowing abroad (or w i th in Mexico in foreign cu r rency) by the pub l ic sector and by state-owned banks is subject to approval by the M in is t ry of Finance and Public Credit. Borrow- ing abroad by private banks is subject to certain require- ments imposed by the Bank of Mexico; these banks are permitted to accept deposits denominated in fo re ign currency f rom residents as well as nonresidents, but may not receive liabilities over US$400,000 f rom a s ing le nonresident. Only investment banks and m u l t i n a t i o n al banks operating through their investment departments are allowed to accept time deposits in U.S. dollars. The interest rate on such deposits is fixed in relation to the corresponding Eurodollar rate in London. Gold Domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold are limited MEXICO to purchases of gold bars by goldsmiths or manufac- tu re rs effected th rough authorized Mexican credit insti- tu t ions. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell mone tary gold in Mexico. There is a 15 per cent tax on sales of new ly m ined gold. Producers of gold who unde r take not to sell it at prices exceeding in terna t ional quo ta t ions p lus normal marke t ing costs are eligible for an au toma t ic subsidy of up to 100 per cent of the tax, when s e l l ing new ly mined gold in Mexico to private b anks or to goldsmiths or manu fac tu re rs in Mexico. Exports of gold are prohibited unless effected by the B a nk of Mexico. Imports of gold require an import license from the Bank of Mexico. Changes during 1979 January 5. The import licensing requirement was e l im in a t ed for 89 ta r i ff items comprising mainly inter- mediate goods used by the agricultural, chemical, metal wo rk ing, and mach inery and parts sectors. January 23. The M in i s t ry of Finance and Public Credit granted a subsidy of up to 100 per cent of the impo rt duties on capital goods for export production, and of 40 per cent of the import duties on capital goods for the production of socially needed goods by small and medium-sized enterprises. July /. The system of official m i n im um prices used to de term ine ad valorem impo rt duties was abolished. A new customs valuation law entered into effect estab- l i sh ing that du t ies would be based on transaction values, a l though for certain goods official prices would be ma in ta ined. December 26 and 28. The import licensing require- ment was eliminated for a fu r ther 1,562 tariff items com- p r i s ing m a i n ly intermediate goods used by the agricul- tu r al and chemical sectors. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. The Bank of Morocco fixes buy ing and selling rates for the French f ranc daily on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trad ing partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade. Buying and selling rates for most other currencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On December 31, 1979 the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 0.92865 buying, and DH 0.93145 selling, per F 1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was fixed at DH 3.728 buying, and DH 3.7496 selling, per US$1. A bonus of 5 per cent is paid on the dirham equivalent of foreign currencies transferred to bank or postal accounts by Moroccans working abroad. A supple- mentary premium is paid on remittances effected by Moroccans working in France. The additional prem ium, called the "fidelity premium," is calculated so as to assure beneficiaries a conversion rate of DH 1 = F 1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen- tralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency separately. Each day authorized banks must purchase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by the Bank. Compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco also estab- lishes buying and setting rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travelers checks, and letters of credit expressed in French francs, CFA francs, the "convertible currencies,"1 and specified other curren- cies;2 the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at the Bank when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was established by the authorities effective June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as well as imports of nonconsumption items. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro- ner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Mauri- tanian ouguiyas, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. - Finnish markkaa, Iranian rials, Lebanese pounds, and Libyan dinars. Libyan dinars are traded only by the agencies of the Bank of Morocco. 270 Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce; they must be countersigned by the Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tan- gier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Although Morocco's regulations still make a distinc- tion between the former French Franc Area and the area of convertibility, Morocco applies exchange control also to transactions with the former.3 Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: ( 1) the former French Franc Area countries; (2) the payments agreement group, com- prising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements;4 and (3) all other countries, the "area of convertibility." Settlements with the former French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settle- ments for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ); certain noncommercial settlements with Algeria, however, are made in dirhams or Algerian dinars through special accounts at the two central banks; all settlements w i th Tunisia are made through accounts denominated in convertible dirhams or Tunisian convertible dinars, and all settlements w i th Maur i tan ia are made through accounts denominated in convertible dirhams or con- vertible Mau r i tan ian ouguiyas. Settlements with the pay- ments agreement group are made through the payments agreement accounts. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "con- vertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco.5 Other settlements with countries in the area of converti- bility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 3 The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. 4 Mali and U.S.S.R. The agreement with Mali is inoperative. 5 Special regulations apply to payments for imports of Egyptian origin; 40 per cent of such payments must be effected through the account established under the terminated bilateral payments agreement and 60 per cent in "convertible currencies." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1. French Franc A rea Accounts are held in Moroccan currency in the names of residents of countries of the former French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of countries in the former French Franc Area, except for payments for imports (and related invisibles) from those countries.6 They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except banknotes) effected with the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the area of con- vertibility. These accounts may be credited freely w i th authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible curren- cies," excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies." Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 4 ); they are used only for settlements with these countries, inc lud ing settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any non- resident, are credited with funds that may not be trans- ferred abroad. These include the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan securi- ties and proceeds from the contractual or accelerated redemption of such securities. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries either in the area of con- vertibility or the former French Franc Area, or the same country in the payments agreement group, are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited free ly for purchases of specified government bonds and for per- sonal expenses of the account holder and his immed ia te relatives during visits to Morocco, up to DH 150 a person a day, subject to a limit of DH 5,000 a year for each account. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual approval. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding non- resident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Morocco, and, up to DH 150 a day a person and w i th in a l im it of DH 5,000 a year, to pay the costs of the account holder's stay in Morocco, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Three Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank MOROCCO of Algeria, the Central Bank of Mauritania, and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Only certain noncommercial transactions between Morocco and Algeria are settled through the account opened in the name of the Central Bank of Algeria. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program, divided into three categories and applicable to all countries, except Rhodesia. Goods in List A may be imported freely. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trad ing; for a large number of List B items, no quotas are established, and imports are approved accord- ing to need, licenses usually being issued upon applica- tion (SB i tems). In principle, the importation of goods in List C is not permitted; among the items on this list are certain motor vehicles, certain precious metals, and gold jewelry. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement a" importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis,7 but for goods in List B, an import certificate (autorisation d'im- portation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. Wheat, sugar, tea, and fertilizers are imported by official agencies. For all imports the import title —import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods concerned d i f fer or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. A noninterest-bearing advance import deposit equiva- lent to 25 per cent of the total foreign exchange cost of the import is payable at the time the import trans- action is domiciled with an authorized bank. The deposit is refunded to the importer af ter six months. A large number of import items is exempt from the deposit requirement —notably essential foodstuffs, pri- ma ry, semifinished, and capital goods imported by cooperatives and by small and medium-sized enterprises with an annual turnover of less than DH 7.5 million, imports made by public offices and local communities, and imports under the customs savings procedures.8 Most imports f rom countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance with quotas estab- lished in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. tt Imports from the former French Franc Area, unless covered by special credit arrangements, must be paid for w i th French francs pur- chased from the Bank of Morocco. 7 C.i.f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. 8 Including temporary admissions, drawback, and warehousing. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles require the approval of the Exchange Office, but in several instances the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial trans- action covered by the relevant import or export docu- ments. Earnings af ter tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferab le to the investor's country of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies hav- ing their main office in Morocco requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Undistributed profits relating to the financial year 1968 or later remain transferab le indefinitely. Some payments are subject to limitations. A fore ign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his mon th ly wages or salary if his f am i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his fam i ly lives in Morocco; except for the medical and paramedical professions, such transfers are subject to a limit of DH 1,000 a month. Subject to a mon th ly l im it of DH 500, the same percentages of earnings may also be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in agricul- tural, industrial, or commercial activities, or in skilled crafts. Foreign nationals employed in the hotel sector or the mining sector are authorized to transfer between 60 per cent and 80 per cent of their monthly salaries or wages. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodic transfers abroad. There is a special allo- cation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign na t iona l i ty may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equiva- lent of DH 2,500 a year for each passport by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than bankno te s) f rom the ir own foreign assets not subject to su r render requirements. For business travel a standard allowance of DH 500 a day is granted for executives and DH 350 a day for other staff members and employees, up to DH 5,000 a person a trip and w i th in an annual ceiling fixed individ- ually by the Exchange Office; exporters and professional members of the tourist indus t ry may obtain up to DH 7,500 a person a trip, w i th in a ceiling of 3 per cent of the foreign exchange repatriated du r ing the preceding calendar year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. Moroccan students pu r su ing higher studies abroad may obtain mon th ly allocations of foreign exchange up to DH 1,300 for students in higher education who do not hold scholarships, and of DH 1,500 for doctoral stu- dents who do not hold scholarships. There is also a quarterly allocation of DH 1,000 as a supplement for scholarship students. Students are granted an annu al 272 installation allowance, fixed at DH 2,000. For family maintenance, the Exchange Office grants a monthly allocation of DH 300. The export of Moroccan bank- notes is prohibited. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the first time may be granted DH 2,000 in foreign banknotes upon presentation of an employment contract. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items, and exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All fruits, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation —OCE), which is also in charge of w ine exports. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The sur- render to the exporter's bank must take place w i th in one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the ma tu r i ty date fixed in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be set more than 90 days af ter the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must sur- render noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result f rom cu r rent transactions, and only when they accrue in foreign currencies other than those of the former French Franc Area. Moroccans working abroad must surrender such currencies w i th in one month of re-entry, but are permitted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 per cent of the amount surrendered ( the currencies so purchased may include French f r a n c s ). Moroccan workers abroad are entitled to a bonus of 5 per cent on the d i rham equivalent of any foreign exchange repatri- ated in the form of transfers to a bank or a postal account. A supplementary premium is paid by the banks on such remittances by Moroccans work ing in France. The additional premium, called the "fidelity p rem ium ," is computed to assure beneficiaries a con- version rate of F 1 = DH 1. The importation of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident t rav- elers may freely bring in foreign banknotes; foreign currency imported in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 must, however, be declared to the customs authorities. Resident travelers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be sur- rendered w i th in 30 days of re-entry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittance of the assets of emigrants and transfers in the form of gifts are riot normally approved, nor is investment by private indi- viduals in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange allocations for the transfer of inheritances are limited to DH 35,000 a beneficiary. Transfers of assets by persons returning to their own country vary with the length of their stay in Morocco, from DH 35,000 a f am i ly with family residence of 3 to 5 years to DH 250,000 a fam i ly where the period of residence has been 15 years or more. New foreign investments in specified sectors of the economy may benefit from the provisions of the Invest- ment Code of August 15, 1973. The Code provides various tax concessions and other incentives. It guaran- tees the transfer of dividends distributed to nonresidents and of proceeds from the liquidation of the capital brought in by the foreign investor. Investments financed with funds held in Capital Accounts (see below) also are eligible for the benefits of the Code; proceeds from the liquidation of investments financed in this manner become transferable after a m in imum investment period of 5 years. Foreign investments approved under the previous Investment Code (of February 10, 1961) continue to benefit from the retransfer guarantee for the liquidation proceeds. Proceeds from the liquidation of other invest- ments are credited to Capital Accounts. Operations through Capital Accounts that may be effected with approval include purchases on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or participation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; investments of any kind, including purchases of businesses or office buildings; lending to residents; payment of local expenses in excess of DH 5,000 during the account holder's stay in Morocco; any such payments to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative; any such payments from an account held by a foreign juridical person; gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; subscriptions to capital increases of Moroc- can companies whose shares are quoted on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange; subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term fixed yield securities issued by a Moroccan public entity; custody charges and com- missions on securities; and payment of the cost of main- tenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, within the framework of the 1973 Investment MOROCCO Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 per cent of the investment undertaken by the non- resident and 25 per cent of the company's total capital. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between non- residents. These are 5.5 per cent, seven-year bonds on which interest and redemption proceeds are transferable. All other transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept con- vertible currency funds from nonresidents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, provided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same ma tu r i ty period. The rate of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on their corresponding placements. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of DH 250 has been issued and is legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Each year the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Gold jewelry is included in import List C. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes during 1979 January 1. The stamp duty on imports was raised to 10 per cent. January 5. It was announced that imports financed without purchase of official foreign exchange should be registered with the banks in accordance with the general regulations for imports, and would be subject to the advance import deposit requirement (Exchange Office Circular No. 1342). January 20. Imports of spare parts were trans- ferred from List A to the restricted List B (Exchange Office Circular No. 1343). February 5. Banks were authorized to arrange pay- ments transactions in respect of imports from sources other than the country of origin, provided, however, that such imports were not from countries in the pay- ments agreement group (Exchange Office Circular No. 1344). March 12. The minimum daily allowance for business travel was raised from DH 250, or DH 300 for exporters, to DH 500 for executives and DH 350 for other staff and employees (Exchange Office Circular No. 1345). April 11. Exchange Office Circular No. 1346 was issued, requiring settlements between Morocco and 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Mauritania to be made either in Moroccan dirhams or in Mauritanian ouguiyas. April 20. Exchange Office Circular No. 1347, effec- tive June 1, 1979, established a forward exchange cover facility, for individual export and nonconsumption import transactions to a value of at least DH 20,000, for a maximum period of 12 months; the commission charge, initially set at 5 per cent of contract value, was reduced to 2 per cent by Exchange Office Circular No. 1357 of August 21, 1979. June 1. Imports of paper for publishing purposes were shifted from List A to List B (Exchange Office Circular No. 1348). June 6. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the first time were permitted to apply for foreign bank- notes equivalent to DH 2,000 upon presentation of an employment contract (Exchange Office Circular No. 1350). July 3. The ceiling for the transferable quota for farmers, businessmen, and craftsmen was raised from DH 300 to DH 500 a month (Exchange Office Circular No. 1351). July 13. Imports of coffee were shifted from List A to List B (Exchange Office Circular No. 1356). July 17. Imports of specified bars of aluminum were shifted from List C (prohibited imports) to List B (Exchange Office Circular No. 1353). July 19. Imports of spare parts of safety belts were shifted from List C to List B (Exchange Office Circular No. 1355). July 23. Imports of certain types of lamps were transferred from List A to List C (Exchange Office Circular No. 1354). September 6. Exchange Office Circular No. 1358 authorized debits to suspense accounts opened in the name of nonresident foreign nationals to a limit of DH 150 a day a person and DH 5,000 a year to meet the costs of the account holder's stay in Morocco. September 17. Import items under about 200 tariff headings were transferred from List A to List B (Exchange Office Circular No. 1359). October 15. Exchange Office Circular No. 1360 granted exemption from the advance import deposit requirement to imports of seed grain and specified items of agricultural machinery. December 6. The monthly allocation for students in higher education not holding scholarships was raised from DH 1,000 to DH 1,300 (Exchange Office Cir- cular No. 1364). 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of NRs 12.00 = US$1. On December 31, 1979 the official buying and selling rates were NRs 11.90 and NRs 12.10, respectively, per US$1. Nepal also quotes fixed rates for the Ind ian rupee, at NRs 145.00 buy ing and NRs 145.15 selling, per 100 Ind ian rupees. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for other cur- rencies,1 w i th quotations based on the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Buy ing rates only are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Italian lire, and Swedish kroner, based on buy ing rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. A second official exchange rate is applied only to merchandise transac- tions, with certain specified exceptions, with countries other than India. This rate is fixed at NRs 15.90 buy ing and NRs 16.10 selling, per US$1.2 Residents may free ly purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coin, but the Ind ian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control Permission is required from the M in i s t ry of Finance for all payments in convertible currency except for import payments and certain specified payments. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. A supervisory committee composed of representatives from the Nepal Ras tra Bank (the central b a n k ), the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the M in is try of Agriculture, and the National Planning Commission oversees the operation of the dual exchange rate system. AH exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Rastriya Ban i jya Bank. Within Nepal there are 124 additional authorized deal- ers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements app ly to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force" and these may be made in fo re ign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Payments to, and receipts from, other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union except Ind ia (Bangladesh, Bu rma, 1 Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 With effect from February 21, 1980 the middle ra te was changed to NRs 14 per US$1. •i Nepal has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Poland, and U.S.S.R.; payments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. An agreement with Pakistan is inoperative. Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transac t ions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and the ir produc ts) should be effected th rough the Asian Clearing Union unless exporters in the par tner country require the transaction to be settled th rough no rmal bank ing channels. Payments for imports f rom Ind ia no rma l ly are settled in Indian rupees, but the Nepal Rastra Bank sometimes makes convertible currencies ava i lab le for such imports on the recom- menda t ion of the M in is try of Finance. The proceeds of exports to Ind ia are obtained in Ind i an rupees, while proceeds from o ther countries must be received in any of the quoted convertible currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks; bal- ances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Accounts in Ind ian currency may be opened on ly under special arrangements. Foreign currencies b rought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited w i th a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from India and imports of certain commodi- ties (cement, corrugated sheeting, hardware, industrial machinery and spare parts, and fertilizer) from coun- tries other than India do not require import licenses. All other imports of goods require import licenses. Impo r ts of vegetable oil, margarine, animal fa t, woolen carpets, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters require special permission of the Government. Imports of beef are banned. Under the Trade and Transit Treaties, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may, in principle, be imported freely (although some are subject to a permit system in order to prevent their re-exportation and certain others are subject to export ceilings in Ind ia ); reimbursement of tax is made by the Government of Ind ia to the Government of Nepal on direct imports from Ind ian manufacturers of commod- ities subject to excise duty in India. Imports of certain commodities from countries other than India (e.g., stain- less steel, wrist watches, synthetic yarn, radios, and pocket calculators) are subject to quantitative restric- tions. Foreign tourists may bring in, without permission, goods not exceeding NRs 10,000 in value, which are not otherwise restricted. Nepalese citizens returning af ter visits of less than three months abroad to coun- 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL t r ies o ther t h an I n d ia a re allowed to impo rt w i t h o ut perm iss ion goods va lued up to NRs 5,000 once every three mon ths. Nepalese citizens r e tu rn ing a f t er an absence of between three mon ths and one year may import goods va lued up to NRs 10,000 w i thout per- m iss ion; the l im it for citizens r e t u r n i ng a f ter more than one year abroad is NRs 15,000. Under the dual exchange rate system for merchand ise transactions, a fixed depreciated selling rate of NRs 16.10 per US$1 is applied to all imports f rom countries o ther than Ind ia, except for exempted items (e.g., petroleum products, coal, fer t i l izer, raw cotton, cotton ya rn, indus t r ial chemicals, construction ma ter ia ls, pharmaceu t ical products, and m a ch in e ry ). Exchange to pay for the exempted import items is purchased at the official se l l ing rate of NRs 12.10 per US$1 .4 A ll impo rt settlements through the bank ing system must be on a letter of credit basis; only impor ts f rom Ind ia may be settled outside the bank ing system. Certain imports f rom alt sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Ind ia may be made f ree ly in Ind ian rupees, but for amoun ts of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. All paymen ts for freight and insurance are made at the official exchange rate. For t ravel to countries other than Ind ia for medical t rea tmen t, fo re ign exchange is allowed as recommended by a panel of doctors; students s tudy ing at the ir own expense in these coun tr ies are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tu i t ion fees are allowed as required. Foreign exchange is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transac t ion and the ava i lab l i l i ty of fore ign exchange. Nepalese and Ind ian currencies may be taken out freely to Ind ia but only by Nepalese and Ind ian na t iona ls; the export of these currencies to countries other than Ind ia is pro- hibited. Foreign banknotes, other than Ind ian bank- notes, may not be taken out by residents w i thout permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any fore ign bankno tes they brought in; however, nonresidents, other th an Ind i an na t iona ls, may not take out Nepalese or Ind i an bankno tes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coin, gold and s i lver, coin and jewe l ry made of these metals, and wild a n im a ls ( b u f f a l o, mon- key, panda, musk deer, and rhinoceros) are prohibited. The re-export to Ind ia of non-Nepalese goods is not permitted, and re-export to any des t ina t ion of goods im- ported from Ind ia is prohibited. All other goods of Nepalese origin may be exported f ree ly to Ind ia. AH exports to other des t ina t ions, except hand ic ra f t s, woolen 4 Debt service payments on fo re ign credits associated w i th are transacted at the rate applicable to the merchandise. impo r ts 276 goods other t h an carpets, and ju te bags, requ ire export licenses. The Nepal Food Corporation has a monopoly over exports of len t il seeds. The exchange proceeds f rom exports, except I n d i an rupees, mu st be surrendered to the Nepal Ras t ra Bank or to an au tho r ized bank w i t h in six mon ths of the date wh en the goods crossed the customs fron t ier. As part of the dual exchange rate system, exports to countries o ther th an I n d ia are transac ted at the depreciated official b u y i ng rate of NRs 15.90 per US$1. An export va lua- t ion committee de te rm ines for each exportable com- mod i ty other th an hand ic ra ft goods, the max imum u n it v a lue that can appear on an application for the depre- ciated exchange rate. U n it values are defined on an f.o.b. Nepal basis. Foreign exchange surrendered in excess of ea rn ings calculated on this basis is not eligible for the depreciated exchange rate. Nepa tese citizens going abroad may take out unre- stricted goods va lued at up to NRs 10,000 without au tho r iza t ion; otherwise an export license is required. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th the exception of Ind ian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived f rom transactions in invisibles must be su r rende red to the Nepal Ras tra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and I n d i an cu r rency may be brought in f rom Ind ia only, and by Nepalese and Ind i an na t iona ls on ly; the import of these currencies f rom coun tr ies other than Ind ia is proh ib i ted. When ex tend ing the ir visas, tourists are required to produce evidence that they have converted a m i n im um of US$5 at the o f f ic ial rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonres iden ts other than Ind ian nationals are not allowed to b r ing in Nepalese or Ind ian bank- notes. Other fore ign bankno tes may be brought in freely by residents and nonres iden ts, but residents and Ind ian na t iona ls must dec lare any foreign bankno tes they b r ing in. Capital No cond i t ions are specified concern ing receipts and rem i t tances in respect of cap i tal transactions, but official exchange is not n o rm a l ly provided for cap i tal rem i t- tances by Nepalese na t iona ls. Nepalese citizens, whe ther res ident in Nepal or not, are prohibited f rom m ak ing any type of inves tment in foreign countries, except inves tment spec if ica l ly exempted by government notice; the exemp t ions in c lude the purchase and sale of insu r- ance policies abroad, inves tmen ts abroad by any b ank ing or financial in s t i tu t ion incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies und er a rights issue. The I n d u s t r i al Enterprise Act, 1974 provides incen- tives for foreign inves tment in Nepa l. Foreign investors who ob ta in an inves tment gua ran tee may remit yea r ly profits of up to 25 per cent on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pr inc ipa l; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold f rom any coun try other than Ind ia require a license and are subject to an import du ty of NRs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not no rma l ly allowed. Exports of gold may be made on ly by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the M in is try of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to a sales tax of 12 per cent. Changes during 1979 January 2. Exports of biscuits and confectionery items, except toffees and chocolates, were exempted from excise du ty provided certain procedural require- ments were met. January 21. The Ministry of Indus t ry and Commerce announced that ethylene v inyl acetate and 24 similar chemical products were eligible to be imported at the basic exchange rate. February 16. The M in is try of Indus t ry and Com- merce announced that 50 chemical products were eli- gible to be imported at the basic exchange rate. March 2. The M in is t ry of Finance announced that export receipts under the Exporters' Exchange Entitle- ment Scheme must be received by Ju ly 31, 1979, in order to be eligible for the export bonus. The bonus would be available at the Nepal Rastra Bank at the basic exchange rate w i th in 35 days from the date on which payment was received. The import license should be obtained from the M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Commerce NEPAL w i th in 45 days f rom the date of receiving the bonus, and the goods imported under the scheme must be shipped by April 12, 1980. April 3. Nepal and Sri Lanka signed a trade agree- ment valid for three years. The agreement set up a jo int committee to promote trade between the two countries. Nepal's exports would include sugar, jute and ju te products, timber, rice, and other goods and its imports would inc lude cement, paper, rubber, and other products. May 4. The Government announced the elimination of the NRs 800 cash subsidy on each ton of ju te goods exported to countries other than India, with effect f rom March 28, 1979. July 9. The Government terminated the monopoly of the eight Rice and Paddy Exporting Companies over the export of rice and paddy and opened up the rice trade to private traders. Import duties on automobiles of 1,000 cubic centimeters or less were reduced from 125 per cent ad valorem to 60 per cent, and import duties on motorcycles were fixed at 35 per cent. Import duties were also reduced on certain consumer goods, trac tors, power tillers, tires, and spare parts. Import surcharges levied on certain commodities imported from Ind ia were waived. August 29. The M in is try of Indus try and Commerce announced that 47 additional chemical products were eligible to be imported at the basic exchange rate; phenoxymethylpenicillin, glycerin, and clove oil were among the eligible products. November 4. Nepalese citizens re tu rn ing f rom abroad a f ter visits of less than three months, except to India, would be allowed to import without permission goods va lued up to NRs 5,000 once in every three months. 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Netherlands is the Netherlands Guilder. The Ne the r lands participates w i th Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and Luxembourg in the exchange ra te and in terven t ion mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance w i th th is agreement, the Netherlands ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Ne ther lands guilder and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the I ta l ian lira, 6 per cen t) above or below the cross rates based on the cen t ral rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Ne the r lands Bank ( the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i ted amoun ts at specified in terven t ion rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 these rates were: Netherlands Gu i lders Upper limit Lower limit Specified In terven t ion Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs 7.0520 1 00 Danish kroner 36.33 1 00 deutsche mark 1 1 3 .05 100 French francs 47.99 1 Irish pound 4.1995 10,000 Italian lire 25.16 6.7420 34.735 108.0775 45.88 4.0145 22.3175 The participants in the EMS are not m a in t a in ing exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in orSer to ensure a proper f u n c t i o n i ng of the system, they in te rvene in concert to smooth out fluctua- t ions in exchange rates, the in te rven t ion currencies be ing each other's and the U.S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buy ing and selling rates for 14 fore ign currencies.1 On December 31, 1979 the authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar were f. 1.90425 and f. 1.90675, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, including deposits in nonresident guilder accounts, and incon- vertible currencies; they are free to deal with residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an unde r ly ing transaction required. Residents are free to conclude spot transactions with other residents, inc lud ing authorized banks, and they may conclude 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 278 forward transactions with authorized banks for any period. The intermediation of authorized banks is not obligatory in those forward currency transactions in which the guilder is not involved. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and are permitted to hold accounts in their own names with banks abroad; for any one holder, aggregate overdrafts on the latter accounts may not result in gross foreign borrowing in excess of f. 500,000 per calendar year without specific license (see section on Capital, below). The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles are sub- ject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. Vis-a-vis any third countries with which payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands and the Ne ther lands Antilles w i l l, if so stipulated, con- s t i tu te the Ne the r lands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affa irs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import- Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives f rom the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Capital transactions are licensed by the Ne ther lands Bank; trans it trade transactions in strategic goods and scrap are licensed by the CDIU.2 For the ir exchange transactions, residents are required to use the in termed ia t ion of commercial banks author- ized to hand le these w i th in the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. For all current paymen ts to, or receipts from, nonresidents exceeding f. 3,000, and for all capital payments or receipts, nonbank residents as well as nonauthorized banks are required to indicate, on an exchange control form, the n a tu re of the under ly ing transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regu la t ions govern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is involved. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collecting receipts from them, residents may make use of guilders or any foreign currency. If such payments are made f rom, or are received in, the Netherlands they must use the intermediation of authorized banks or of other domestic institutions or persons designated by the - The only t rans it trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods and, w i th in the EC, of scrap. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Netherlands Bank. Residents are free, however, to open and maintain bank accounts abroad; in that case, they must no t ify the Netherlands Bank, and receipts and payments are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the relative regulations. There are specific regulations for payments in respect of certain direct imports from Egypt.3 All payments and credits, whether direct or indirect, from the Netherlands to Rhodesia are prohibited unless a license is granted by the Netherlands Bank.4 Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are free to open and maintain non- resident accounts with authorized banks in the Nether- lands in guilders or any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All current payments or receipts are freely permitted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other non- resident accounts. Some capital payments or receipts, however, are subject to license from the Netherlands Bank (see section on Capital, below). Nonresident accounts held by residents of Rhodesia are of two kinds: R Accounts for payments within the Netherlands, some of which are permitted under general license, and Special Accounts through which external payments must be made, subject to special licenses (which are granted only for the exceptional cases referred to in the relevant UN Resolution) .4 Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union are free from import licenses. All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited.4 Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly in the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors, when not of EC origin. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries, most imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European coun- tries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all pre- vious barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms to the relative 3 Fifty per cent of these payments are used to settle Netherlands claims outstanding under the indemnity agreement with Egypt. 4 All restrictions on payments transactions with Rhodesia were lifted with effect from January 20, 1980. NETHERLANDS exchange control regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodities, but they require prior approval from the Netherlands Bank to accept credit for periods in excess of those that are customary in the trade concerned. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in foreign and domestic banknotes and coin or documents of value for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amorti- zation due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate nonresident account. Nonresidents may export all unutilized documents of va lue for travel purposes as well as foreign and Nether- lands banknotes and coin which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; those which are permitted require an export license.4 For exports to other countries, export licenses are required for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic char- acter, and for some agricultural products, iron and steel scrap, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities, but they require prior permission from the Netherlands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery in excess of the customary practice in the trade concerned. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amounts of foreign banknotes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Nether- lands as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Most external capital transactions are free. The main capital transactions of nonbank residents still subject to case-by-case review are ( 1) financial borrowing from nonresidents exceeding f. 500,000 a year; (2) the issue of interest-bearing domestic securities, and the sale of such unlisted securities, to nonresidents; (3) lending to nonresidents exceeding f. 10 million a year to the same nonresident; and (4) the acquisition of foreign unlisted interest-bearing guilder securities. The inward transfer of capital originating from short- term and medium-term borrowing abroad by nonbank residents continues to be restricted for reasons of mone- tary policy. Long-term borrowing abroad for domestic use by resident enterprises is generally permitted upon 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS application if the loans meet the following conditions: ( 1) the period between the start of the contract and the ma tur i ty date of the last repayment shall be either ( a) at least ten years with a fixed rate of interest which may be adjusted once, after five years, or (b) at least seven years with a fixed rate of interest for the whole period to ma tu r i ty; (2) the average period to maturity shall be at least five and a half years; (3) repayment before the dates provided for in the contract is pre- cluded; and (4) to the extent that the loan is denomi- nated in guilders, the issue of bearer debt certificates shall not be allowed. Once such loans have been licensed, permission to give guarantees and other security to nonresident lenders will also be granted. Apart from the above, the inward transfer of foreign capital (other than for portfolio investment in listed securities or the purchase of real estate, see below) is in general permitted only if the capital constitutes a direct investment. In addition to foreign participation in the capital of companies, direct investment is considered to include intercompany financial loans from the foreign parent company with a fixed term of at least five years. Under certain conditions loans from other affiliated foreign companies are also being licensed. The proceeds of foreign loans licensed for domestic use (meeting the conditions enumerated above) may alternatively be used for employment abroad. Other borrowing is in general permitted only if the proceeds are employed abroad. In this respect, employment of the proceeds is stipulated to be either direct investment abroad (which is considered to include purchases of ships and aircraft) or repayment of foreign credits raised earlier under an exchange control permission. Com- panies working on the Netherlands sector of the con- tinental shelf, whether foreign owned or resident owned, are allowed to take up foreign credits (with a fixed term of at least five years) to the full extent of their financing requirements. Resident units of international companies are free to maintain current accounts with their head offices or subsidiaries abroad for the purpose of inter- company settlements; changes in the accounts are to be reported to the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the relative regulations. Short-term foreign bank credit for the financing of imports is licensed if it is directly connected with a specific import transaction; for long- term financing, importers are referred to the domestic credit market. Sales to nonresidents, including central banks, of Netherlands Treasury paper and bank accept- ances denominated in guilders are prohibited. Lending by nonbank residents to nonresidents (whether affiliated companies or others) is free up to f. 10 million a year to the same nonresident; larger amounts are normally permitted on application. Public issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of nonresidents are scheduled, and if necessary limited, by the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the market's capacity to absorb issues. In the private placement 280 sector of the capital market (the market for debt certifi- cates or onderhandse leningen), institutional investors are liberally permitted to extend loans to nonresidents. The max imum size of each loan is set at f. 75 million and the m in imum maturity at ten years, with repayment to take place in at least five equal installments. The lenders are required to deliver in foreign currency. A queue system with an issue calendar for nonresident borrowers is used to ensure an orderly market. Partici- pation by residents in the capital of companies abroad is free. The inward or outward transfer of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct investments is free. Repayment of licensed loans may be made or received freely, provided that any relevant stipulations in the license are complied with. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in unlisted stocks are free. However, residents are not allowed to purchase unlisted fixed-interest securities (such as notes) on the Euro- market denominated in guilders and issued by nonresi- dents. Nonbank residents are licensed to issue bonds and notes abroad only if the proceeds are not brought into the Netherlands, unless they comply with the con- ditions regarding long-term foreign borrowing for domes- tic use by resident enterprises (see above). The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonresidents (except Rhodesian nationals—see footnote 4) are trans- ferable in any currency, irrespective of the seller's coun- try of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and resi- dents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payments within the framework of such transactions is also freely permitted. Residents, when purchasing real estate abroad, may borrow on mortgage from a non- resident an amount not exceeding the purchase amount. Previously acquired foreign real estate may be mortgaged for a loan (provided the amount of the mortgage does not exceed the value of the real estate). Subject to certain conditions, residents may also incur a debt toward a nonresident, on the security of a mortgage, for the purchase amount of real estate situated in the Netherlands. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Non- residents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Commercial banks are permitted to incur a net external liability position to an extent related to the total of their gross foreign assets at the end of 1978: 10 per cent of the first f. 500 million gross foreign assets, 5 per cent of the next f. 500 million, and 1 per cent of any additional gross foreign assets. However, the m in imum net external liability margin allowed to any bank is f. 20 million.5 Banks are required to report to the Netherlands Bank twice a month the totals of their spot assets and liabilities, broken down into guilders and all foreign currencies combined. In addition, banks are encouraged to maintain a balanced total position (i.e., spot plus forward position) in each foreign cur- rency. They are required to report their spot position, as well as their forward position with residents and nonresidents, respectively, in each foreign currency at the end of each month; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, the same data must also be reported at mid-month. Moreover, copies of all forward exchange contracts with nonresidents are forwarded to the Netherlands Bank. Banks are free to lend to foreign banks and, for maturities up to one year, to foreign nonbanks; longer-term lend ing is per- mitted under general license. Banks are free to pay customary rates of interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits and to establish guilder time or savings deposits on their books in the names of nonresidents. Thus, their freedom to accept deposits f rom nonresidents (including foreign currency demand or time deposits) and to borrow abroad is unrestricted, provided the limits set on the permitted net foreign liabilities are observed.5 All capital transfers by nonbank residents, whether free or permitted under license, must be notified to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. This includes suppliers' credits granted or received for periods in excess of one year; prepayments exceeding f. 250,000 received for exports must be reported as such. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodi- cally by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Gold The Netherlands Bank engages in gold transactions only with monetary authorities and international finan- cial institutions. Neither the Bank nor any government agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold mar- ket in Amsterdam. Domestic sales of gold coin are subject to value-added tax at 4 per cent. The value- added tax on medallions and commemorative coins is "W i th effect from Janua ry 28, 1980 the limitation on the net exter- nal position of commercial banks has been terminated. NETHERLANDS 18 per cent. Transfers of gold in bars and other elemen- tary fo rms are taxed at 4 per cent (except for trans- actions of the Netherlands Bank with foreign monetary authorities); all other gold transactions are taxed at 18 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. The domestic gold-working industry, instead of having to borrow capital to buy initial amounts of its raw material, is permitted to borrow this gold from nonresidents under contract of mutuum. Guarantees or other security required for this may also be freely given. The quantities of gold thus imported must be reported to the Nether- lands Bank on a quarterly basis. Changes during 1979 March 13. The Netherlands' participation in theA exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS became effective. April 27. The domestic gold-working industry was given general permission to borrow gold, in the course of its business, from nonresidents under contract of m u t u um. The fu rn i sh ing of guarantees or other security required for this transaction was iacluded in the per- mission. June 1. The "five million regulation" relating to the permitted net foreign indebtedness of authorized banks was liberalized. In fu tu r e, commercial banks would be permitted to incur a net external l iab i l i ty position to an extent that was related to the total of their gross foreign assets at the end of 1978: 10 per cent of the first f. 500 million gross foreign assets, 5 per cent of the next f. 500 million, and 1 per cent of any additional gross foreign assets. The m in imum net external liability mar- gin allowed to any bank would be f. 20 million. August 1. The l im it on freely permitted financial borrowing abroad by nonbank residents was raised from f. 300,000 for one calendar year to f. 500,000. The regulations on long-term borrowing abroad for domestic use by resident enterprises were liberalized. For loans w i th a period to final ma tur i ty of at least ten years, which previously had the rate of interest fixed for the whole period, the rate of interest might now be adjusted once, after five years; the hitherto obligatory periodic repayments (of at least five equal annual or ten semi- annual ins ta l lmen ts) were abolished. An additional category of loans was declared eligible for permission; these were loans with a period to final maturity of at least seven years, w i th one rate of interest for the whole period. For this new category and for the ten-year category, the average period to final ma tu r i ty should be at least five and a half years, prepayments were for- bidden, and, if the loan was denominated in guilders, the issue of bearer debt certificates was precluded. The new category included the placement of guilder notes that complied with these criteria. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antilles Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Ant. f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1979 were Ant. f. 1.77 per US$1 for banknotes and Ant. f. 1.79 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was Ant. f. 1.81 per US$1. The Bank of Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks at inter- bank rates; it does not normally deal with the public. Official buying and selling rates for certain other cur- rencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. There is an exchange tax of 0.80 per cent on sales of foreign exchange.3 Commercial banks require the approval of the central bank to invest or hold foreign currency balances,4 but authorized banks have been granted general permissions for these purposes. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Economic Affairs. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for most current transactions without prior approval. The central bank may grant exemption from the obligation of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or moneys concerned were acquired from nonresidents as principals; the foreign exchange may then be held or used freely un t il further notice. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by residents through the authorized banks in foreign exchange, as well as all receipts through the authorized banks, must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents (including for- eign investment funds, etc., with nonresident status) are permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands Antilles guilders only if the authorized bank concerned 1The Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 2 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, Swiss francs, and Venezuelan bolivares. 3 Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with non- resident status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. 4 All currencies other than the Netherlands Antilles guilder are considered foreign currencies. 282 considers that they have certain interests in the Nether- lands Antilles which render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not exceed Ant. f. 10,000 without central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items, such as narcotics and explo- sives, are subject to license for reasons of public policy. Imports of a number of commodities, including edible oils and certain domestic appliances into Aruba, Bonaire, and Curagao are subject to licensing by the Department of Economic Affairs, while commercial imports of pas- senger automobiles built prior to October 31, 1979 are prohibited. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies with nonresident status nor- mally finance their imports with their own foreign exchange. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curacao. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are not restricted. For most types of current invisibles remittances may be made freely through the authorized banks. Licenses are required mainly for the purchase of travel exchange in excess of US$100 a person for each day to be spent abroad, and for certain personal remittances in excess of Ant. f. 5,000 for each transaction or in excess of Ant. f. 25,000 a person a year. Such licenses are freely granted when no capital transfer seems to be involved. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six months of shipment, with the exception of export proceeds received by companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles (except those of firms with nonresident status) must, in prin- ciple, be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of receipt, but in practice the public is allowed to hold foreign banknotes and coin, since the domestic currency and the U.S. dollar circulate concurrently. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, travelers checks, or banknotes denominated in foreign currency. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 200 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, pro- vides for duty-free entry of many commodities as well as tax facilities. New industrial companies primarily engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the central bank, which confers on the company concerned exemption from exchange control (except in its transactions with residents), including exemption from the requirement of surrendering foreign currency receipts. Such exemption may also be granted to com- panies concerned with investment, patent holding, ship- ping, and insurance. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance con- tracts in foreign currency between residents and foreign insurance companies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed up to an amount which is fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position, but outward transfers of capital by life insurance companies are not restricted; contracts expressed in domestic currency are freely permitted in any amount by virtue of general permissions granted to individual foreign insurers. Invest- ment by residents in real estate situated abroad requires a license, but this is normally given freely. Investment in officially listed foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in the currency of a country other than the Netherlands Antilles) is subject to licensing; such licenses are generally granted provided the securities are registered abroad in the name of an authorized bank and provided foreign payments are channeled through authorized banks. Purchases of mutual fund shares are prohibited. Authorized banks may borrow foreign currency abroad from nonresidents (including residents with non- resident status), or accept foreign currency deposits from nonresidents, for relending to nonresidents or redeposit abroad; their borrowing from nonresidents NETHERLANDS ANTILLES for relending to residents is restricted for monetary policy reasons. Banks require central bank approval to incur a net foreign liability position and limits are placed on their working balances in foreign currency. Nonresidents are not normally permitted to acquire balances in Netherlands Antilles guilders. Local bor- rowing in domestic currency by nonresidents (including resident companies regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes) is restricted. Gold There are four commemorative gold coins each of which is legal tender: the Ant. f. 200 (1976) Bicen- tennial, the Ant. f. 200 (1977) Peter Stuyvesant, the Ant. f. 100 (1978 ), commemorating the 150th anni- versary of the central bank, and the Ant. f. 50 (1979), commemorating the 25th anniversary of the Statute of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed w i thout special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the cen- tral bank; such licenses are not norrn^lly granted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1979 March 2. The general permission to buy foreign securities abroad was withdrawn; henceforth, such pur- chases would be subject to licensing. However, on August 2, 1979 a general permission was again granted for reinvestments abroad. March 5. Import duties on certain luxury goods were increased from 14 to 20 per cent of the c. & f. value. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. Exchange rates are computed from the va lue of the New Zealand dollar, which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the New Zealand do l lar and a basket of currencies represen t ing New Zealand's ma in t rad ing partners. The currencies included in the basket and the ir weights are established in accord- ance with their proportionate share of New Zealand's total current overseas receipts and payments; the weights are adjusted quarterly. The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, is fixed da i ly on the basis of the average weighted variations in quotations for the U.S. dollar in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. The peg of the New Zealand dollar to the basket of currencies is subject to adjustment on the basis of cost and price trends in New Zealand relative to those of trad ing partners. For all currencies except the U.S. dollar the trading banks are free to move the spot exchange rate in response to market conditions throughout each business day. The outer l im i ts for the telegraphic trans- fer buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1979 were $NZ 1.0089 and $NZ 1.0192, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases o^sales of foreign exchange. The trading banks are permitted to conclude w i th their customers fo rwa rd exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the funds are required or the source from which they are obtained. These forward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. The Reserve Bank sets forward rates for the U.S. dollar, the ma in criterion being the relationship between interest rates in New Zealand and in the United States. For all other cur- rencies, the trading banks are f ree to set their own rates for forward transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The Reserve Bank has given discretionary au thor i ty to the trading banks to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission administers the regulations governing foreign direct investment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsi- b i l i ty of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Indus try, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any 284 foreign currency.1 Payment to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand is also an accept- able form of payment. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("con- trolled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dol- la rs of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions w i th other countries, but they may only be f u n d ed from overseas or by amounts which would otherwise be remittable from New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an annu al Import Licensing Schedule. The import categories included in the schedule are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) covers v i r t u a l ly all primary products (other than whea t), most raw ma te r ia ls and components of a type not pro- duced in New Zealand (e.g., base chemicals and ferti- l i z e r s ), and a range of consumer goods and machinery. Goods in th is category are exempt from licensing, as are, in addition, certain imports of Australian origin, irrespective of the licensing category to which they belong.- On a value basis, around 75 per cent of all private imports are exempt from licensing. The "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to either the amount of licenses issued or the actual v a lue of imports in a previous licensing period. Goods covered by this category include tires, paper products, and a range of ma ter ia ls for use in m anu f a c tu r e. The "C" category covers a wide range of commodities, including most manufactures, e.g., machinery and appliances, aircraft, ships, and motor vehicles. Category "C" licenses are granted on an ind iv idual basis on such criteria as need, availability of domestic alternatives, and price; for some "C" items, however, there is an in i t ial allocation un t il July of each year, based on a previous period, while applications for fu r th er licenses are considered individually. Imports of completely knocked-down automobiles are subject to special arrangements. "Administrative basic licenses" are issued automatically to ensure continuity of importa- tion for certain regularly required goods in the "C" category that correspond to only part of an item code, for example, spare parts. The overall administration of the system has been eased over the recent past, with greater availability of licenses for inputs to export-oriented industry, to encourage rationalization of production and greater cost containment within industry generally. 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 2 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree- ment that came into force on January 1, 1966. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes ( for Industry and Interchange- ability Groups) that enable importers to transfer indi- vidual entitlements to a composite license instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Import Licensing Schedule may be issued in special cir- cumstances, viz., for advertising material supplied free of charge; gifts, passengers' baggage, replacement of fau l ty or damaged goods; trade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange available for payments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments within prescribed limits for most categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases, to the submission of supporting documents. Payments in excess of these limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a month or part thereof, with a maximum of $N2 4,000 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a month or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12- month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reasonable requests for genuine travel purposes. In addition to the above, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign currencies, without limit as to amount, to New Zealand travelers against privately held foreign funds. An international departure tax of $NZ 25 a per- son aged 12 and over ( $N Z5 for children over 2 but under 12) is payable on all tickets obtained in New Zealand for departure from New Zealand, except for certain promotional, cultural, or educational travel. This tax is administered by the Customs Department. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to for- mal authentication; for dividends and interest, authority up to $NZ 1,500 in any 12-month period to any one recipient, has been delegated to the authorized banks. Most contractual obligations also are normally approved, but each remittance requires approval, and new com- mitments, such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors or overseas borrowing, require the prior con- sent of the Reserve Bank and, for companies, of the Overseas Investment Commission. NEW ZEALAND Remittances abroad on account of maintenance and /or gifts by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organizations or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to l im i ta t ion. Remittances for religious and charitable pur- poses, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank, subject to formal authen- tication. Any resident may freely make personal remit- tances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any destination overseas for any purpose except gambling or building up assets in the remitter's name, provided that no individual remittance exceeds $NZ 50. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 100 in New Zealand currency, in any denomination of notes or coin. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and carry the condition that the net export proceeds must be surrendered to a trading bank in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. General export licenses valid un t il 1982 are issued to regular exporters. Unless prior consent is obtained, payments for exports must be received w i th in six months from the date of shipment. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when particular require- ments have been met and an export permit has been issued. Temporary restrictions have been imposed on exports of tallow and specified types of mutton. Exports of beef and veal to the United States and cheddar-type cheese to the United Kingdom are subject to annual quantitative restraint. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers sub- m i t t ing evidence of exportation may receive a replace- ment import license of the same value as the imported raw material or components that are incorporated in the exported goods, as well as, subject to certain condi- tions being met, an additional bonus license; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manu fac tu re of goods for the home market or for export. The bonus license must not exceed the differ- ence between the f.o.b. value of the goods exported and the c.i.f. value of imported materials and /or components used in manufac ture by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents ( inc lud ing corporate bodies ordi- n a r i ly resident in New Zea land) is paid in the form of foreign assets/5 the foreign currency proceeds must be :i The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the cred i t ing of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or pro- vision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or con t ingen t ); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remun- eration is in a form other than a foreign currency or a balance w i th an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency and then surrendered. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, and the foreign currency pro- ceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic banknotes and coin. Capital With the exception of capital issues outside New Zea- land and overseas borrowings, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. While overseas borrowing by financial institutions requires consent, this is usually granted where the funds are required for industrial development purposes. To be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been transferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. In the case of overseas borrowing, repayments are not normally permitted until the expiry of the term for which the funds were borrowed. Overseas com- panies seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas borrow- ing by such companies also requires prior approval. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance. Local borrowing by companies that are 50 per cent or more overseas owned is normally restricted to 10 per cent of the turnover in the previous financial year, with a special allowance in respect of any export turnover. Such companies may borrow locally, in addition, an amount in proportion to the level of their borrowings from overseas, based on the ratio of New Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Nonresident persons or com- panies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to obtain the consent of the Over- seas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement to 25 per cent or more of any class of shares, or enable the 286 offerer to exercise 25 per cent or more of the voting power at any general meeting.4 Emigrants to any destination may upon departure transfer their entire assets to their new country of resi- dence. Applications for the remittance abroad of lega- cies from the estate of a New Zealand resident are nor- ma l ly approved in full. The authorities do not normally make exchange avail- able to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas securities for portfolio investment. New Zea- land Government stock on the London register pur- chased overseas by New Zealand residents after Sep- tember 5, 1969 may not be transferred from the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning freely held overseas securities may retain them abroad or he may sell them to a nonresident for any foreign currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas securities, may be remitted to New Zea- land through the banking system, or may be retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zea- land resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any overseas cur- rency. The only overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those that were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents of title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with the Reserve Bank. These securities may also be sold for any overseas currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or be reinvested in other overseas secur- ities within three months. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coin in New Zealand without restriction. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than gold coin and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restric- tively. Changes during 1979 February 1. To allow trading banks greater flexibility in quoting foreign exchange rates, it was announced that the Reserve Bank would fix the exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar against the U.S. dollar each day leaving the five trading banks free to adjust the rates for all other currencies both spot and forward in response to market conditions throughout the day. The 4 Automatic approval is given to a foreign firm wishing to acquire control of a company with assets of up to $NZ 50,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Reserve Bank facility under which forward cover was available to the trading banks in sterling and Canadian dollars was withdrawn, except that the facility in sterling would remain open in respect of forward contracts covering exports of wool. April 5. Under the Import Licensing Schedule for the year beginning July 1, 1979, the basic import allo- cation would be 10 per cent higher than in the 1978/79 licensing year in the case of consumer goods and 15 per cent higher for other goods. Gloves and children's footwear were exempted from the licensing requirement as from July 1, 1979. June 21. The value of the New Zealand dollar was adjusted downward by 5 per cent in relation to the basket of currencies to which it was pegged. It was also announced that the Reserve Bank would hence- forth make small regular adjustments in the rate, each of less than 0.5 per cent, reflecting relative cost and price developments in New Zealand and in its main trading partners. Changes in the fu ture level of the peg would not be announced as they took place, but the Reserve Bank would publish a monthly index of the value of the New Zealand dollar measured in terms of the basket of currencies. In view of the changes in the system of exchange rate management, the regulations governing the forward exchange market were also amended. Previous arrange- ments had provided that export and import transactions could be covered only if a forward contract were taken out within ten days of the risk arising; foreign exchange risks associated with service and capital transactions were almost entirely excluded; furthermore, non- residents were not eligible for forward cover. The new arrangements, available to both residents and non- residents, provided that forward exchange contracts could be entered into with the trading banks to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the funds were required or the source from which they were obtained. Furthermore, the banks could now offer their customers fixed forward contracts, as well as the optional delivery date contracts which were previously the only facility available. NEW ZEALAND Forward exchange contracts would be for initial periods of up to one year but could be renewed at maturity on the terms then prevailing. The Reserve Bank would set the forward premium or discount for the U.S. dollar from time to time, the main criterion being the relationship between interest rates in New Zealand and in the United States. However, other factors could also be taken into account, particularly when normal interest rate relationships were distorted. Initially, the forward premium was set at 4 per cent per annum against the spot rate for purchases of U.S. dollars and 3 per cent per annum for sales of U.S. dollars. June 21. An international departure tax was intro- duced replacing the 10 per cent foreign travel tax. July 1. Import quotas on prawns and shrimps and children's footwear were lifted. Prawns and shrimps would continue to be subject to health controls. July 27. Changes were announced in the guidelines on foreign investment in New Zealand: henceforth, approval would be given automatically to a foreign firm wishing to acquire control of a New Zealand com- pany with assets of up to $NZ 50,000, unless the Over- seas Investment Commission decided to examine the proposal in the light of the general criteria; the ceiling on domestic borrowing by foreign-owned companies was raised; official approval would not*^e required for the issuance to a foreign resident of new shares amount- ing to not more than 25 per cent of the share issue of a New Zealand company. October 1. The limit on the amount of New Zealand currency travelers might take out of the country was raised from $NZ 50 to $NZ 100. The restrictions on the denomination of notes that might be taken out or brought in were removed. December 13. Sanctions on financial transactions and trade with Rhodesia were revoked. December 31. The Reserve Bank announced that in the six months to the end of December the monthly adjustments of the value of the New Zealand dollar against the basket of currencies had amounted to a cumulative depreciation of 2.25 per cent. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Nicaragua is the N icaraguan Cor- doba. Nicaragua ma in ta ins a dual exchange ma rket system. Certain current and capital receipts must be surrendered to the Central Bank or its authorized agents at the official exchange rate, and the Central Bank or its authorized agents w i ll sell foreign exchange at the official rate for specified current and capital payments and transfers. All other permitted foreign exchange transactions take place at freely determined market rates. On December 31, 1979 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C$10.00 and C$10.10, respectively, per US$1. The in terven t ion cur- rency in the official market is the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom Ju ly 20, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is adm in is tered by the Central Bank, which has sole au thor i ty to buy and sell foreign exchange. This au thor i ty has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals w i th the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. The Central Bank is responsible for c lass i fy ing impor ts, for issuing export authorizations, and for au tho r iz ing sales of exchange at the official rate for cap i tal transac- tions and for payments for inv is ib les. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily conver t- ible into U.S. dollars in in terna t ional marke ts. Paymen ts to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Central Ame r ican Clearing House. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Salvador for compensation th rough the Clearing House in excess of 400,000 Salvadoran colones a month. Imports and Import Payments All commercial and industrial importers are requ ired to be registered. There are two broad categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any k ind of merchandise and those who may impo rt only for their own industrial needs. Unregistered indi- viduals may not import for their own personal consump- tion except for the unaccompanied baggage of those persons who have resided outside Nicaragua for more 288 than one year. Commercial and industrial imports from all countries, except the other Central American coun- tries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding an importer's license from the M in is try of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with and be authorized by the Central Bank by means of import declarations. In view of the cu r rent shortage of foreign exchange, an import priority l ist has been established for goods originating outside the Central American Common Market. Goods appear- ing on the list comprise essentials such as medicines, foods tuffs, raw materials for industry and agriculture, indu s t r ial mach inery, and transport equipment. There has been an accumulation of current payments arrears. Paymen ts for imports from the Central American region must be effected in cordobas by bank check or certified check authorized for conversion through the Cen tral American Clearing House. Payments for imports f rom outside the Central American region must be made with exchange purchased from the banking system, such payments being eligible for purchases at the official exchange rate.1 Payments are usually made by sight d ra f ts. Letters of credit are mostly used for imports f rom Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open a sight letter of credit but is required for a term letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import paymen ts in advance of the a r r ival of the documents. The Central Bank may au thor ize deferred payments or payment w i th funds derived f rom properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods in tended for development or production or for basic works comp lemen tary to production; such permission is at present limited ma in ly to industrial and agricultural mach ine ry and certain raw materials. Imports are not released f rom customs unless evidence is submitted that either payment or acceptance has been made through a bank. In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this require- ment does not apply to du ty-free imports from member coun tr ies of the Central American Common Market. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Nicaragua grants du ty exon- era t ions on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved indus tr ial firms. Most imports or ig ina t ing outside the Central Amer- ican Common Market are subject to an import sur- charge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty. 1 However, by v i r tue of Decree No. 1-L (e f fec t ive March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds f r om bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-produc ts exported th rough the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Depa r tment of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commod i t ies not produced in N ica ragua, wh ich they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhab i tan ts of those areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory (selective) consumption tax irrespective of their or ig in. Furthermore, most commodities are subject to an 8 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domestically produced, and there is an additional 2 per cent consumption tax levied for the benefit of the Municipal Welfare Board when the import takes placl through Managua. Payments for Invisibles All sales of exchange at the official rate for payments related to invisibles must be authorized by the Central Bank. Amounts above those authorized by the Central Bank may be purchased in the free market. Foreign currency notes may be exported freely. For travel related to medical treatment, an allowance of up to US$5,000, or more upon verification, may be purchased at the official rate for hospital bills and medical expenses dur ing any 180-day period. Airlines operating or rep- resented in Nicaragua must accept payment for their services in cordobas at the official exchange rate plus a commission of 0.75 per cent. The Central Bank will authorize the sale of foreign exchange at the official rate to these companies equivalent to the U.S. dollar amount of invoicing for services. Sales of exchange for trans- port other than by air will also be authorized at the official exchange rate. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are divided into two categories: Those in Category A require specific authorization, and those in Category B require general authorization. When the foreign exchange is received prior to shipment or when a letter of credit has been opened, the Central Bank issues the authorization after ver ify ing that the export prices are consistent with those prevailing in interna- tional markets. In all other cases, the exporter must provide a guarantee, by either a bank guarantee or the endorsement of fixed-term financial securities, that the foreign exchange proceeds will be surrendered w i th in 30 days of shipment. Exchange proceeds from most exports must be sur- rendered to the banking system at the official exchange rate. For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy may fix m in imum export prices or temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. A system of withholding of income tax is enforced on exports of coffee (C$100 a qu in ta l), cotton (C$28 a qu in ta l), and beef cattle (C$60-80 a head). In addition, there is a coffee rust tax of US$5 a quintal. There is also a 5 per cent withholding of income tax on certain exporters when the Internal Revenue Service has not received their income tax statements. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from transportation and tourism, NICARAGUA f am i ly remittances, and life insurance are not subject to a su r render requirement and may be converted in the free market. All other receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Foreign exchange proceeds from loans and from investments made under the Foreign Investment Law must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the bank ing system or other authorized agents at the official exchange rate. Once foreign debts have been nego- tiated, the Central Bank will authorize the sale of exchange at the official rate for the payment of princi- pal and interest upon verification that the loan was converted through the bank ing system at the proper time. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicaragua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold to the Central Bank which disposes of the gold abroad. The Central Bank purchases gold abroad for resale to domestic industrial and other users. Nonmonetary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but require price authorization by the Ministry of Economy. Com- memorative gold coins were issued in 1967 and com- memorative gold and silver coins were issued in 1975. Changes during 1979 February 19. About 50 per cent of merchandise imports were made subject to a prior import deposit equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value in foreign exchange for 60 days. These deposits were to be made either in cordobas or U.S. dollars and were to earn interest at the rate of 12 per cent per annum. Payments for all imports, except those subject to the Central American Free Trade Agreement, and most invisibles were made subject to a minimum waiting period of seven days. Anyone seeking to purchase for- eign exchange for an approved purpose was required to make a deposit equivalent to 100 per cent of the value of the payment for at least seven days with a bank, in order that the application would be eligible for consid- eration by the Central Bank. Allocation of foreign exchange would be made on the basis of a waiting list in which the status of an application would be deter- m ined according to the date on which the deposit was made. February 19. The max imum limit on the allowance for travel abroad was changed for an adult from US$5,000 in any 360-day period to US$2,500 in any 180-day period. The maximum allowance for medical expenses, including hospital costs, was reduced from US$10,000 to US$5,000. April 6. The exchange rate for the cordoba was changed from C$7 per US$1 to C$10 per US$1. A 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA system of multiple exchange rates was introduced for the conversion of foreign exchange proceeds from exports and invisibles: thus, proceeds from merchandise exports were to be converted at C$9 per US$1, with the exception of exports of cotton and its derivatives, cotton- seed oil and cottonseed, cottonseed cake and flour, unprocessed or dried or sawn timber, metallic minerals, coffee and instant coffee, cattle of common breed on the hoof and refrigerated or frozen fresh meat, raw tobacco, sugar, and molasses, which until November 30, 1979 were to be subject to a rate of C$8 per US$1. Proceeds from invisibles subject to surrender in the official market were to be exchanged at C$9 per US$1. All other receipts, including loans from abroad registered under the Foreign Investment Law, were to be exchanged at C$10 per US$1. July 26. Foreign banks were nationalized and, subse- quently, were not allowed to service savings accounts. August 30. The temporary multiple currency practice introduced on April 6 was abolished. All foreign exchange transactions in the official market were to be effected at an exchange rate of C$10 = US$1. Sellers of foreign exchange were permitted to charge a 1 per cent commission; no commission was to be applied to purchases of foreign exchange. The parallel market continued to exist. August. The Ministry of Foreign Trade was author- ized to effect all exports of coffee, cotton, meat, and sugar. August. All sales of foreign exchange were tempo- rarily prohibited and a list of priorities for imports was established. December. Remittances for students abroad were re-established with effect from January 1980. 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers f rom countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per m i ll for transfers to such countries.2 Transfers by the Treasury and the Post Office and transactions in banknotes and travelers checks are exempted. Banks levy a commis- sion on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be sur- rendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, ail payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Service in the Ministry of Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Eco- nomic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry, subject to the visa of the External Finance Service in the Ministry of Finance, except for licenses relating to gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import cer- tificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are approved by the External Finance Service. 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. - Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. Prescription of Currency Since Niger is an Operations Account country, settle- ments w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are no rma l ly made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Certain settlements with Nigeria are still effected through special accounts.3 Settlements w i th all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in foreign cur- rencies, or in French francs, through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in N iamey by an authorized bank's foreign corre- spondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized inter- mediaries to their foreign correspondents. imports and Import Payments All imports originating in Rhodesia or South Africa are prohibited. Imports of soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are prohibited, irrespective of origin, unless a special authorization is issued by the Ministry of Economic Affa irs, Commerce, and Industry. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, butane gas, several types of fabric, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member coun- tries of the Common Organization of African and Mauritian States, and to imports of matches, unless they originate in a member country of the West African Economic Community. Imports f rom France and the Operations Account countries of all goods other than those mentioned above may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the six original member states of the EC, many :t The bilateral payments agreement with. Nigeria lapsed at the end of 1977. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER goods from other OECD countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of non- liberalized goods from non-EC countries outside the former French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance w i th an annual program determined each year by the M in is try of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corresponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction may be imported on an import certificate. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. at the border. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Service if the goods have to be paid for before they are imported. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Service, which for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a tr ip (CFAF 50,000 for children under ten ), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Niger must be surrendered within eight days by sale to an author- ized bank. The transfer of savings from their salaries by foreigners working in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Service and is nor- mally limited to 50 per cent of net pay. Larger trans- fers are permitted, however, for bona fide reasons. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Opera- tions Account countries, in addition to their travel allo- cation. Resident travelers to other countries of the former French Franc Area may take out any amount 292 in BCEAO banknotes but, when trave l ing to a country of the former French Franc Area outside the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Opera- tions Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,4 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Exports of millet and sor- ghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping docu- ment in the name of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN ). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. W i th the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require a license and an exchange comm i tmen t. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to fore ign countries must not be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and currencies other than those of the former French Franc Area must be sold on the exchange market, w i th in two months of the due date. All export transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in ). Residents must surrender within eigK days of entry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. 4 This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign cur- rency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Capital movements between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Nigerien Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Opera- tions Account countries. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over the soliciting of funds for deposit w i th foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at sub- scribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.5 For- eign direct investments in Niger0 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, dur ing which he may request postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are B Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 6 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. NIGER quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and ( 3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a foreign borrowing consti- t u t i ng a direct investment is subject to the same for- ma l i t ies as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other borrowings requires authorization only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger mHy be granted cer- ta in guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of Ju ly 31, 1968 and its amending texts. Existing benefits accorded under the previous Investment Code have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enter- prises, w i th respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemp- tions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and f a l l ing within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two d i f fe rent regimes, the approval regime and the agree- ment regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; ( 2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- ta in ing a m inor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 2979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Nigeria is the N iger ian Na ira. Nigeria does not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions and pursues an independent and flexible exchange rate policy. The official middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of a basket of currencies. Official buy ing and selling rates are set at 0.25 per cent on either side of the m idd le rate. On December 31, 1979 the middle rate against the U.S. dollar was US$1.7841 per N 1, and the buy ing and selling rates were US$1.7886 and US$1.7797, respectively, per N 1. The Central Bank of Nigeria also quotes daily rates at which it is prepared to deal in pounds sterling at rates that are fixed inde- pendently of the U.S. dollar-naira rate. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.1 All exchange deal- ings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. However, nongov- ernmental transactions are subject to a commission of 0.25 per cent. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between them- selves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts w i th residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency, except Rhodesian currency, for deliv- ery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods and is payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related fb imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received w i th in three months of shipment or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the following: copyrights; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria (other than local 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, French francs, deutsche ma rk, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, No rweg ian kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 While the Central Bank both buys and sells U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, it is prepared only to buy those other currencies for wh ich it quotes daily rates. 294 bank overdrafts to pay for imports); the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria (o ther than investments in fishing, shipping, and insur- ance ); and any dealings in foreign securities. The Cen- t r al Bank is the p r inc ipal adm in i s t ra tor of exchange control. Most commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Min- is t ry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance w i th instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any appli- cation that does not fa ll within the scope of the author- ity of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Cen tral Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the M in i s t ry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers of foreign currency and travelers checks. All export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are cen- tralized with the Central Bank. The Central Bank sup- plies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal M in is t ry of Trade and the Import Quota Allocation Committee, comprising officials of the Min- istries of Trade, Finance, Industry, and Economic Development, as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the customs administration. Import licenses for petroleum products are issued by the Nigeria Na t ional Oil Corporation. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to countries other than Rho- desia may be made in na ira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhodesia may be received in na i ra from an External Account, in any for- eign currency which is freely exchangeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Current payments to and f rom the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, and Sierra Leone are norma l ly made through the West African Clearing House. Special regu- lations apply to settlements with Rhodesia, and most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts, External Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts are maintained for resi- dents of all countries other than Rhodesia. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia, with payments from other External Accounts, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign cur- rencies other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are fed with funds derived from local sources. They may be credited with proceeds from services ren- dered locally provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by direc- tives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Act. imports and Import Payments Importers must be registered if they wish to obtain individual import licenses. All imports from Namibia (South West Africa), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and the import from any country of certain specified commodities is banned to protect local indus- tries, to reduce imports of luxury goods, or for health, safety, and religious reasons. The import of a few other commodities also is prohibited unless specific conditions set out in the license authorizing such imports have been complied with. Individual import licenses are required for a number of items from all sources, including raw or manufactured tobacco, certain types of paper, pas- senger automobiles with an engine capacity under 2,000 cubic centimeters, certain processed food products, musical instruments and equipment, photographic opti- cal equipment, and various alcoholic beverages. Imports which are neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license from any country other than Namibia, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Some imports are effected exclusively by an autonomous public agency, the Nigeria National Supply Company, Ltd. For imports valued at over N 10,000 the import documents must include a clean report of findings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited of Geneva which inspects the goods and verifies the price, quality, and quantity in the coun- try of origin or shipment. Authorized dealers may provide foreign exchange for authorized imports at sight of shipping documents or in accordance with such credit terms as may be arranged between importer and exporter (subject to the approval of the Central Bank for the private sector or the Min- istry of Finance for the public sector). Import pay- ments exceeding N 100,000 or import contracts exceed- ing N 100,000 and not covered by a letter of credit must be registered with the Central Bank and the Min- istry of Trade, respectively. Payment in advance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank, except where prepayment is made against a letter of credit. All forms of import payment in respect of non- essential goods, except those effected on documents against payment (D /P) terms, are subject to a 100 per NIGERIA cent advance deposit requirement. Exempted from the requirement are capital goods, raw materials, foodstuffs, and medicines. For sight transactions, the importer must present the customs bill of entry within 90 days a f ter the allocation of foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some categories of invisibles this is granted by authorized dealers, either up to speci- fied limits or up to the amount of the bill or invoice. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by authorized dealers and are not among those (such as profits and dividends)3 that require approval by the Ministry of Finance are forwarded to the Central Bank for decision. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria and all insurance companies oper- ating in the country must reinsure with the National Insurance Corporation. Residents are entitled to a basic tourist travel allow^ ance of N 500 a person a year (N 250 a year for chil- dren under 16). There is also an allowance for pil- grimages. Foreign exchange for these purposes may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for any destina- tion, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. Busi- ness travel allowances are limited to N 80 a day, up to 14 days a trip, for a maximum of 56 days in a year, with no restriction on the number of trips that may be taken. Exchange allocations are available for medical care up to N 500 for consultation and up to N 2,000 for surgery, but additional amounts are provided when supporting evidence is submitted. Foreign exchange is granted for all bona fide expenses for education beyond the secondary level. Foreign exchange allowances for elementary and secondary school education abroad are not granted except in special cases such as those of handicapped children for whom educational facilities are not available locally. Exchange applications for :1 Profits and dividend payments remitted abroad and disbursed locally may not exceed 30 per cent of a company's capital stock. New profits and dividends may be remitted as soon as they are declared, provided that, in the case of a ir l ine and shipping companies, a tax at the rate of 10 per cent is paid. The tax is held on account u n t il corporate tax re turns are assessed and filed. Remittances of technical fees, manage- ment fees, and royalties are permitted where it can be shown that these are related to the import of modern technology. Payments for technical and management fees require approval by the Ministry of Finance. A fixed fee is normally permitted for the first five years a f ter the establishment of a new company, and the rea f ter a per- centage of net profit not exceeding 3 per cent. Each application is trea ted on its merits within these broad guidelines. Similar policies are applicable to other payments for services, such as those relating to copyrights and trademarks. Foreign consultants perform ing profes- sional services in Nigeria are allowed to remit to their associates abroad up to 30 per cent of the amount contracted. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA most nontourist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Rem i t tances by residents for g i ft purposes are limited to N 150 a year for individuals and N 500 for charitable organizations. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may purchase annua l ly foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross annual taxable income for all personal remittances ( inc lud ing insurance, education, medical expenses, provident fund contributions, sund ry payments, and the basic travel a l lowance); applications in excess of this limit are examined on their merits by the Central Bank. When tak ing overseas leave, foreign nationals may also convert up to three months' pay in to foreign exchange. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes and travelers checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and travelers checks that were declared upon entry, m inus the amount converted locally into Nigerian currency. Travelers may take out N 50 in domestic notes and coin; all other export of Nigerian currency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports of beans, cassava, flour, groundnut oil, maize, m i lk, palm oil, rice, sugar, timber, and pre- viously imported food items are prohibited, as are exports of explosives, other than indus tr ial explosives. Exports of cattle and groundnuts have been suspended. Individual export licenses are required for cigarettes and tobacco, hides and skins, columbite, tan ta l i te, un re f ined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by Marketing Boards (cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benni- seed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm kernel oil, and palm kernels). The sale abroad of all export crops pur- chased by the Marketing Boards is the responsibility of each Marketing Board under the general guidance of the Export Commodity Coordinating Council. The export of certain goods (Afr ican antiques or works of art and objects that are being used or have been used in African ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrange- ments. All other goods may be exported without a license. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a com- mercial bank, to the Central Bank within three months of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products, however, are exempt from the surrender requirements. For all exports, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, for surren- 296 der to the Central Bank. Persons entering Nigeria may f ree ly b r ing in foreign banknotes. Travelers may bring in N 50 in domestic currency; all other import of Nigerian currency notes and coin is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required f rom the Ministry of Finance for any ind iv idu a l, firm, company, or branch resident in N iger ia to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credit abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies also is sub- ject to approval by the M in is try of Finance. The per- mission of the Ministry of Finance is required for bor- rowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or company and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a b ank) which is controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary short- ages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of N iger ia may not deal in foreign currency securities or buy f rom or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the M in is try of Finance. The capital proceeds of secu- rities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Min- istry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or repatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enter- prises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the IndigenizatiOn Decree of 1974, as amended in June 1976 and January 1977. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the gran t ing of which me*ans that sympathetic consider- ation will be given to fu ture requests to repatriate the capital. The gran t ing of "approved status" is not appli- cable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not nor- mally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution credit are invested in local enterprises. With m inor exceptions, foreign-owned companies and commercial banks opera t ing in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold With permission of the Federal Commissioner for Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and au thor- ized industrial users are not allowed, w i thout special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry requ i re specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies, producers of gold, and indus tr ial users. Fur thermore, the import of U.K. gold coin requires a license f rom the Commissioner of Customs and Excise, and the impo rt of other gold coin requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coin and gold and silver bu l l ion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs du ty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1979 January 1. A preshipment import surveillance system was introduced, under which all imports into N ige r ia of goods whose value exceeded N 10,000 were required to be inspected by a foreign firm ( the General Superintend- ence Company Limited of Geneva) for purposes of price and qua l i ty control. Goods covered by irrevocable letters of credit opened before December 12, 1978 and acceptable to the Central Bank of Nigeria, goods shipped by sea on or before Janua ry 31, 1979, and goods arr iv- ing in Nigeria on or before that date were exempted from the preshipment inspection requirement. April 1. The importation of ar t if ic ial flowers, fire- works, shoe uppers, and toothpaste was p roh ib i ted. April 1. Remittances by foreign firms opera t ing under management and technical services agreements were NIGERIA limited to a maximum of 3 per cent of net profit, instead of 3 per cent of gross profit. April 1. The proportion of fees which foreign con- su l tan ts performing professional services in Nigeria m ight remit to their associates abroad was reduced f rom 50 per cent to 30 per cent of the amount contracted. April 1. Foreign exchange allowances for elementary and secondary school education abroad ceased to be gran ted except in special cases such as those of handi- capped children for whom educational facilities were not locally available. April 1. The following guidelines with respect to repa tr ia t ion of sales proceeds of shares by foreign com- panies covered under the Nigerian Enterprises Promo- t ion Decree of 1977 were introduced: ( 1) repatriation wou ld be perm i t ted on ah ins ta l lment basis, with amounts not exceeding N 300,000 to be t rans fe r red upon approval and the excess over N 300,000 to be t rans fe r red at the rate of N 300,000 every six mon ths; (2) in order to qu a l i fy for repa tr ia t ion, applications must be supported by documen tary evidence of approved status or evidence of capital impor ta t ion; (3) when reinvesting in Nigeria, enterprises already en joy ing approved status would also have approved status conferred on their new investment; and (4) all enterprises unable to produce evidence of approved status would, when reinvesting not less than 50 per cent of the sales proceeds of their shares in new enterprises in Nigeria, be permitted to t rans fer dividends w i th respect to both their old and new investment. April L The 100 per cent advance deposit require- ment was applied to all forms of import payments, except those effected on documents against payment (D / P) terms; the list of products exempt f rom the deposit requirement remained unchanged. September 1. Rice of all types was added to the list of prohibited imports. September 7. The Central Bank issued an instruction to authorized dealers that applications for approval of fo re ign exchange transfers in respect of goods entering the coun t ry on or before December 31, 1978 would no longer be accepted unless they were registered with the Central Bank for the purpose of ob ta in ing exemption f rom preshipment inspection. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The external value of the krone is pegged to a currency index number reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the 12 currencies most important to Norway's external trade and payments. The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around the benchmark for the effective value. The weights of the index are proportional to Norway's imports from and exports to each of the countries whose currencies are included. However, the weight of the U.S. dollar is adjusted to take account of the fact that a great part of the exports and imports of shipping services and petroleum products are dollar based. The exchange rate of the krone for the U.S. dollar, the principal intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of the average weighted variations in quotations for the U.S. dollar in relation to the other currencies in the basket. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were NKr 4.9150 and NKr 4.9370, respectively, per US$1. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the inter- play of market forces. Authorized banks' forward trans- actions with nonbank residents must have a commercial basis. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. N o rw ay f o rm a l ly accepted the ob l ig a t ions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. Authority to approve most current pay- ments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the M in is t ry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Con- vertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any country, with trans- fers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible cur- rencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers 298 to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Authorized banks are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents, subject to the arrangements for banks' borrowing abroad (see section on Capital, below).1 Imports and import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Global quotas were introduced on January 1, 1979 for certain textiles and garments originating in countries outside the EC and the EFTA. Certain other textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveil- lance purposes. There is a restricted list of imports of a limited number of industrial goods; however, many of the goods on this list are licensed automatically. With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are restricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years old or older, and certain categories of fishing vessels, may be imported freely,2 but special permission is required in order to ensure compliance with the regulations regarding pay- ments in advance of delivery. The import of radio equipment and radio control equipment is subject to approval by the Directorate of Telecommunications. The import of a small number of commodities is pro- hibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amorti- zation, may be made freely. Such payments do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that they do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 2,000. The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is the equivalent of NKr 5,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 800 in Norwegian banknotes, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents 1 Residents also may open foreign exchange accounts. The customer must have both income and expenditure in foreign currencies. Hold- ings on these accounts must not exceed the amount required to cover obligations due in the immediate fu tu re. 2 Automatic authorization is not granted for imports from Albania, Nor th Korea, Macao, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought in to the coun try by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported free ly to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declaration or export license; for fish and fish products this limit is NKr 500. Payments must be received within 12 months of ship- ment and in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. A person entering Norway may br ing in any amount in Norwegian currency, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and inves tmen ts in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Nor- way. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the gran t ing of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also per- mitted freely. Most transactions in securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Norwegian securities denominated in Norwegian kroner and pu r- chased by nonresidents from residents by special per- mission may be resold to residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds from the sale. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase shares and bearer bonds in Norwegian bank ing and indus tr ial firms up to a l im it of NKr 1 million. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to fam i ly loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emi- grants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized investments, have to be surrendered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are treated liberally but portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the exception of securities issued by foreign investment companies or mutual funds, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought with the proceeds of foreign securities NORWAY acquired before that date. Residents may upon applica- tion transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 250,000 a fam i ly; such purchases by business firms, staff associa- tions, etc., are approved for higher amounts. There are limits on commercial banks' borrowing abroad. For smaller banks the general rules stipulate that each individual bank may borrow funds or accept deposits in foreign currency from foreign banks within a ceiling fixed at 20 per cent above the average of its total foreign borrowing at the end of each month in 1975. For a tr ial period un t il the end of March 1980, the 11 largest commercial banks, accounting for about 90 per cent of the foreign exchange transactions in Nor- way, have to balance their combined spot and forward positions in foreign currency within narrow margins va ry ing between banks according to the size of their total assets. Banks are permitted to hold positions in any currency that is covered in other currencies. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incurring or providing guar- an tee obligations abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coin not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold bu l l ion and gold coin are subject to the regular va lue-added tax at a rate of 20 per cent. Changes during 1979 March 1. The People's Republic of China was inc luded in Norway's Generalized System of Preferences. April 25. It was announced that all controls on the sale of unworked gold had been removed. September 1. New arrangements were introduced for the exchange of foreign currency for Norwegian kroner. Shipping and manu fac tu r ing companies having the major part of their sales in foreign markets or having extensive foreign exchange transactions with other countries and m a in t a in ing close business relations with foreign banks were permitted to apply to the Bank of Norway for per- mission to carry out foreign exchange transactions with a l im i ted number of foreign banks. October L The l im it on the transfer of capital abroad for the purchase of real estate for recreational purposes was raised from NKr 150,000 to NKr 250,000 a fam i ly. October 23. New regulations facilitating foreign investment in Norwegian capital markets came into effect. Nonresidents would be allowed to buy shares and bearer bonds in domestic companies up to a limit of NKr 1 million and would be permitted to hold unlimited amounts in Norwegian bank accounts. December 22. The sanctions against Rhodesia were abolished. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Oman is the R ial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman ma in ta ins fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on Decem- ber 31, 1979 these rates were RO 1 = US$2.89814 and RO 1 = US$2.89234, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited and the use of their currencies also is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are pro- hibited from all sources for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Imports of Maria Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Import licenses are not requ ired and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatri- ated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or be received f rom Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or jur id ical persons requires prior approval. Such investment is regulated by a foreign investment law enacted in 1973, as amended in Janua ry 1977 and August 1978, and by a law for the Organization and Encouragement of Indus try, which came into effect on January 15, 1979. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, inc lud ing private persons, may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any fo rm without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Changes during 1979 January 15. A law for the Organization and Encour- agement of Indus try came into effect. It provided for the establishment of a committee to organize, encourage, and protect national industries as well as to formulate policy w i th respect to foreign investment and to codify the various incentive schemes for industry. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of Pak i s tan is the P a k i s t an Rupee, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. do l l a r, the i n t e r v e n t i on c u r- rency, at PRs9 .90 = US$1. The State Bank of Pak i- stan ( the cen tral b a n k) con f ines i ts b u y i ng and se l l ing rates w i t h in 2.25 per cent of th is rate. On December 31, 1979 the State Bank's b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for t ran s- actions w i th authorized dealers were PRs 9.9000 and PRs9.9156, respectively, per US$1. All t ran sac t ions with the public in fo re ign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. On December 31, 1979 au thor ized dealers' buy ing and selling rates for spot transac t ions were fixed at PRs 9.8844 and PRs 9.9312, respectively, per US$1, and for fo rwa rd transac t ions at PRs 9.8688 and PRs 9.9468, respectively, per US$1. In c a l c u l a t i ng spot exchange rates for other currencies, a m a r g in of 0.0625 per cent is provided on e i ther side of the mean rate based on the previous day's closing b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the currency concerned in the New York ma r- ket. Higher effective selling rates result f rom the impo- sition of m i n im um ma rg in requ i remen ts on the op en ing of import letters of credit at rates of up to 100 per cent. Authorized dealers in Pak is tan are pe rm i t ted to cover the ir requirements of specified currencies in fo re ign exchange marke ts abroad. They may also cover the ir permitted transactions in specified currenc ies against U.S. do l lars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or fo rwa rd for a limited period, w i th the ir agents in the coun t r ies concerned. In addition, they offer fo rwa rd cover in As ian monetary un i ts for exports and impo r ts effected under the As ian Clearing Un ion a r rangemen t, w i th the State Bank standing ready to cover fo rwa rd contracts reported by authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases and sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated au tho r i ty to a n um b er of banks and financial ins t i tu t ions to deal in a ll foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requ iremen ts, and to sell exchange for specified purposes w i th in l im i ts pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Con t ro l ler of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and permits, as well as the imp lemen ta t ion of import and export policies. Certain fo re ign trade trans- actions are conducted th rough var ious state t r ad ing agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pak is tan, Ltd. (TCP ), the Cotton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad mu st be effected through an authorized fore ign exchange dealer, in pr inc ip le, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees f rom or to non res ident rupee bank accounts. Ce r ta in se t t lemen ts w i th specified coun tr ies are channeled th rough special accounts. Letters of credit for imports f rom all o ther coun tr ies must be established in U.S. do l lars, pounds s ter l ing, the domestic currency of the bene f ic ia ry, or in the cu r rency of the coun t ry of origin or sh ipmen t. No exchange control is exercised over transactions w i th A f g h a n i s t a n, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in A fgh an currency. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled th rough special accounts in in conv e r t ib le currencies. Trade in specified com- modities w i th Bu lga r ia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, No r th Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. is settled through special nonconvertible accounts. The special accounts w4th the People's Re- pub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. are ma in ta ined in noncon- v e r t i b le U.S. do l la r s, and the special account w i th Nor th Korea is denom ina ted in deutsche m a rk. A special trade and payments arrangement with the German Demo- c ra t ic Repub l ic, w i th an ind ica t ive commod i ty list only, provides for paymen ts to be effected th rough a clearing account m a in t a in ed in U.S. dollars. Paymen ts to and f rom Iran and Tu rkey relating to v i s ib le trade (exc lud ing border trade, I ran ian oil, and defense m a t e r i a l s) are settled th rough clearing accounts m a i n t a i n ed by the respective central banks in U.S. do l la rs. Paymen ts to, and receipts f rom, member coun- tr ies of the As ian C lea r ing Un ion other than Iran (i.e., Bang ladesh, Bu rm a, Ind ia, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of cu r r ent transac t ions (other than those relat- ing to pe tro leum, n a tu r al gas, and their products) may be effected in As ian mone tary un i ts through the Asian C l e a r ing Un ion. Paymen ts between Pak is tan and Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of ind iv idua l s, firms, or companies resi- dent in coun tr ies outside Pakistan are designated as non- res ident accounts.1 Au thor ized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents w i thout the pr ior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened w i th funds received from abroad th rough b a n k i ng channe ls or w i th rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified pur- poses may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents 1 D i f f e r ent rules apply to nonres ident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one h and, and to nonres ident rupee accoun ts of banks, on the other hand. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN of I n d i a, o ther than the accoun ts of the Ind i an Embassy and i ts pe rsonne l, are blocked. P a k i s t a ni na t iona ls res id ing abroad and fo re ign na t iona ls, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open fo re ign cu r rency accounts w i th banks in Pak is tan w i thout prior app roval of the exchange con trol au tho r i- ties. There are no res tr ic t ions on the currencies in wh ich the accounts may be denom ina ted; credit balances may be t ran s fe r red abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt f rom income tax. A deposit holder w ish ing to make paymen ts in Pak is tan must first convert the fo re ign exchange d r awn f rom h is account in to Pak is tan rupees. If a Pak i s tani na t ional ho ld ing such an account re tu rns to Pak is tan, he may re ta in the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereaf ter, the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pak is tan rece iv ing such deposits must sell the fore ign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in two l is ts: a free l ist and a tied list. Items on the free l ist may, in pr in- c ip le, be procured w i thout res tr ic t ion, w h i le items on the tied list may be procured on ly f rom tied sources u n d er credits, ba r ter trade, loans, or the U.S. P.L. 480 program.2 Items not on either list are e f fec t ive ly pro- h ib i ted for impo rt except und er ce r ta in c ircums tances by export indus t r ies, as men t ioned below. All impor ts requ i re licenses, except goods imported by the Cen tral Gove rnment for defense or other purposes, goods in t ran s i t, personal baggage, cer ta in imports over the land routes f rom A fghan i s tan and Iran, and cer ta in other items permitted under a M in i s t ry of Commerce No t i f i- cation. Generally, licenses rema in va l id for 12 months but in cases where mach inery is spec if ica l ly m anu f a c- tu red, the va l id i ty period can be extended up to 24 months. Licenses for imports va lued at PRs 500 or less in cur no fee, but licenses above that amount are sub- ject to a fee of 2 per cent of the va lue of the license, payable at the t ime of issue. The basic two-list import regime is subject to ce r ta in supp lemen tary qualifications, the most impo r tant of wh ich are as fo l lows: ( 1) Impor ts f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited, as are impo r ts of goods o r ig ina t ing in these coun tr ies but shipped from th i rd countries. (2) In order to fac i l i ta te bar ter t rad ing and utilization of aid and to secure economies th rough bu lk imports, the impo rt of specified items is restricted to the TCP, unless the items are procured w i th U.S. aid. (3) The import of cer ta in other items is restricted to the public sector or to indu s t r i al con- sumers. (4) In conform i ty with Regional Cooperation for Development arrangements between I ran, Pak is tan, and Tu rkey governing procurements for j o i nt indu s t r ial ventures, the import of n ine items, inc lud ing six chemi- - For 1979/80 the va lue of licenses issued to the p r iv a te sector is to be kept to that obtaining in 1978/79. This is to be achieved th rough q u a r t e r ly ceilings for each impor ter and i tem. 302 cal items, is restricted to p rocu rement f rom Turkey. Also, dates may be impo r ted only f rom Iraq. (5) Spe- c ial provisions exist for the impo rt by export indus tr ies of items on the tied list f rom nontied sources and items not on e i ther import l is t. (6) Private sector importers, other than those impo r t ing goods for personal use, who app ly for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organi- zations. (7) Licenses for permissible imports of indus- tr ial p l ant and equ ipment are restricted to a c. & f. value of PRs 2.5 m i l l i o n; p rocu rement of plant and equ ipment of a h igher va lue is effected by the financing ins t i tu t ions, w i th the approval of the M in i s t ry of Indus try. Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news- papers, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. In principle, such letters of credit have to be opened w i th in 60 days after registra- t ion of the license w i th the State Bank for private and pub l ic sector imports. For imports under tied loans or credits, wh ich require the contract to be approved by the Economic A f f a i rs Division or another specified agency, licenses for both pr iva te and public sector im- ports rema in va l id for the opening of a letter of credit for 30 days a f ter final approval of the contract. Oil companies and refineries are free to open letters of cred it for the impo rt of crude oil and petroleum products w i t h in the v a l id i ty period of the unde r ly ing license. Rem i t tances are not no rma l ly permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., mach ine ry and other cap i tal goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manufacturers, the State Bank may au tho r ize advance payments for a part of the va lue of the goods. No payments are perm i t ted for goods o r ig ina t ing in or consigned from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. The State Bank requires banks to take m in imum mar- g ins against import letters of credit (except for imports of indu s t r i al or ag r icu l tu ral machinery as well as their components and spare parts, edible oils, tea, raw mate- rials licensed under the Export Performance Scheme, new sp r int for the newspaper indus t ry and the Koran, books, magazines, and journa ls, crude oil and petro- leum products, rock phosphate and kieselguhr for m a n u f a c t u r i ng fertilizers, electromedical equ ipment not produced locally, and items under the tied l i s t) at the fo l low ing rates: 25 per cent for raw ju te and ju te bags, m i lk and cream ( in c lud ing baby food ), butter, truck and bus chassis, second-hand clothing, construction and eng inee r ing equ ipmen t, medicines, medicinal herbs, crude drugs, pharmaceutical raw materials, and cement; 35 per cent for bagasse for paper mills; 50 per cent for spices, synthetic fibers, raw rubber for tires and tubes, electric bulbs, indus t r ial raw materials, unexposed films, wood pu lp, surgical ins t rumen ts and appliances not produced locally, and tallow for industrial importers; and 100 per cent for all other items (including syn- thetic ya rn and tallow for commercial importers). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports by the TCP are exempt from the marg in requirements on import letters of credit. However, domestic letters of credit opened in favor of the TCP in relation to the import of any commodities through the TCP are subject to the same m in imum ma rg in require- ments as are prescribed for import letters of credit for these commodities. Irrespective of origin, cer ta in goods are subject to an import surcharge of 25 per cent ad valorem. These include cocoa, coffee, many domestic appliances, and passenger automobiles. A 10 per cent surcharge is levied on the c.i.f. va lue of all imports except petroleum products, tea, tractors, certain specified machinery, and items exempt from import du ty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with the regulations. Certain remittances of a personal na tu re are subject to annual quotas, but applications in excess of the quotas may be approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remit- tances by Pakistani nationals to their fam i l ies abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports arc generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Except w i th respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Com- missions, brokerage, or other trade charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a max imum of 5 per cent of the invoice value, except for cotton, rice, and cement, for which separate regulations apply. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made w i th the Government's ap- proval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. On an adm in i s t ra t ive basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$500 a person a trip for private trave l; this allo- cation can be taken up once every two years. Add i t ional exchange for business travel, medical trea tmen t, educa- tion, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries. Exporters of goods or services with annual export earnings in excess of PRs 2.5 million are entitled to a renewable six-month blanket permission for the purchase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$120 a day up to US$3,600 for each business trip. Foreigners leaving Pakistan w i th in six mon ths from the date of their arrival in Pakistan may take out foreign PAKISTAN currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghan is tan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan currency notes and coin and any amount of A fghan cur- rency. Na t iona ls work ing abroad who visit Pakistan may retain for three months the foreign exchange they brought in. When leaving Pakistan, within three months f rom the date of arrival, they may take with them the unspent balance of foreign exchange (including foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$50 a pe rson ). Larger amoun ts of fore ign currency notes can be taken out if the currency notes were declared on entry. Na t iona ls whose stay in Pakistan exceeds three months may take out foreign exchange, inc lud ing foreign cur- rency notes up to a value of US$50 a person, not exceeding US$500 a fam i ly, provided these amounts were deposited by them with an authorized dealer immed ia te ly on arrival in Pak is tan. Residents trave l ing to other fore ign destinations may take out PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and travelers checks sold by authorized banks under permissions issued by the State Bank. Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 or higher may not be taken out. Foreigners may make f am i ly remittances of up to US$500 a month f rom the ir net income in Pakistan. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited/* Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for specified items which are subject to m in imum export prices (such as sports goods, surgical equ ipmen t, and b u n k er o i l ), export quotas (such as maize, onions, gram, and split g r am ), or qua l i ty controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes). The CECP has a monopoly over exports of cotton although pr iva te exporters may act as its agents; rice is exported through the RECP, and cement through the State Cement Corporation. Some chemicals may be exported on ly by the TCP. The State Bank requires a declaration by the exporter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method, and within the prescribed period of time. The authorized dealer certifies the export fo rm for sh ipmen t. Exporters are obliged to collect and sur- render export proceeds w i th in four months of sh ipmen t; the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval by the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The sur- render of Afghan currency accruing f rom exports to A fghan i s tan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for 3 Prohibited exports include beef, mutton, grains, flour, dairy products, edible oils, blood meal, meat meal, corn g lu t en meal, sesame oil cake, cer ta in c i t rus f r u i ts (unless g r a d e d ), and certain hides and skins. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN all exports (except raw cotton, wool, rice, hides and skins, and leather wet b lu e) on the basis of conf irmed irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders or, alternatively, on the basis of the previous year's export performance. Export rebates are paid on the f.o.b. va lue of cotton exports and engineering goods as follows: yarn (7.5 per c en t ), grey cloth (10 per c e n t ), and finished cloth, made-up textiles ( inc lud ing canvas foot- wea r ), and engineering goods (12.5 per c e n t ). The rate of income tax and corporate profit tax is reduced to 45 per cent of normal rates on all income and profits derived from exports, except raw cotton and goods that may be specified from t ime to t ime by the Central Board of Revenue. Indus tr ial un i ts established under the Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of p lant and machinery. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, oil cakes, molasses, and semitanned hides and sk ins. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of A fghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles must be surrendered w i th in three months. Travelers may br ing in PRs 100 in Pak is tan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coin that is legal tender in India. There is no l im i ta t ion on the import of other currency notes and coin. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage indu s t r ial develop- ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, w i th the approval of the Government, may start any indu s t ry in the private sector without conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expend i ture w i ll o r d i n a r i ly be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established a f ter September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any t ime to the extent of the or ig inal investment, and cu r rent profits may be transferred w i thout res tr ic t ion to the coun t ry of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved industrial projects with the sanction of the Gove rnment may be treated as investment for the purpose of sub- sequent repatriation. ( 3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repa tr ia t ion. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the pu r- chase of shares on the stock exchange unless the pu r- chase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pak is tan be fo re Sep- tember 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for ju st and f a ir compensation in the currency of the coun t ry of or ig in of the investment in the event of na t iona l iza t ion of any project. 304 Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register th e ir investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pak is tan; the principal and the prize w inn ings may then be repatriated at any time. T rans fe rs of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securities by Pak is tani residents requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the t rans fer of capital by persons emigrating or re t i r ing f rom Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the t ran s fer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of t rans fer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or t r an s f er of Pakistan securities, excluding shares of pub l ic or private limited companies, in favor of non- residents, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and r e t u r n. Pak i s tan securities held by nonres iden ts may be t r an s f e r r ed to other nonresidents against payment abroad, w i th the same fac i l i t ies in respect of remittance of cap i tal and earn ings as those obtained by the transferor. A general permission has also been issued allowing for- eign na t iona ls temporar i ly resident in Pakistan to make inves tmen ts in un i ts of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Pro- ceeds accruing f rom the l iqu ida t ion of nonresident capi- tal assets that are not covered by repatriation arrange- men ts must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government secu r i t ies payable in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit w i th banks. A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their non- resident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonres ident accounts and cannot no rma l ly be t ran s fe r red abroad. Pakistani nationals require the p r ior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovab le assets held abroad, and the l iqu ida t ion proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through nor- mal b a n k i ng channels. Gold The export and impo rt of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. Such permission is no rma l ly not granted. Banks incorporated in Pak is tan are not permitted to engage in purchases or sales of bu l l ion whether in or outside Pakistan. Changes during 1979 January 3. The validity of the 1974 commodity exchange agreement between the TCP and A.B. Sukab ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of Sweden was extended by one year un t il December 31, 1979 for the open ing of letters of credit. Under the extension, shipments had to be completed by March 31, 1980. The list of items that could be imported f rom Sweden was lengthened (FE Circular No. 1 /79 ). January 9. The export rebate scheme on cotton ya rn and textiles introduced by FE Circular No. 40/78 was amended. In the case of cotton garments, the customs au tho r i t ies were required to cer t ify at the t ime of export that the item contained at least 50 per cent cotton by weight and to determine the value of imported inpu ts used (FE Circular No. 2 /79 ). January 16. Interest rates on foreign currency term, savings, and special notice deposits were raised by 0.5 or 1 percentage points to the level of interest rates applicable to the corresponding categories of domestic currency deposits. For foreign currency term deposits of at least US$100,000, however, preferen t ial rates of 13 per cent, 13.5 per cent, and 14 per cent were in tro- duced for deposits of 3-6 months, 6-12 mon ths, and at least one year, respectively (FE C ircu lar No. 3 /79 ). January 29. The va l id i ty of the 1978 commodity exchange agreement with the U.S.S.R. was extended un t il March 31, 1979 for the completion of sh ipmen ts (FE Circular No. 4 /79 ). February 3. Automobiles for inva l id persons were added to items that might be imported by actual users with approval from the licensing authority. February 3. The import duty on automobiles was based on engine capacity. The ad valorem rates were fixed at 175 per cent, 250 per cent, and 350 per cent for automobiles with engine sizes of between 1,300- 1,600 cubic centimeters, between 1,600-2,000 cubic centimeters, and over 2,000 cubic centimeters, respec- tively. February 14. The validity of the seventh commodity exchange agreement with the People's Republic of China was extended un t il March 31, 1979 (FE C ircu lar No. 7 /79 ). February 15. The validity of the February 1977 commodity exchange agreement with Poland was fu r- ther extended un t il April 30, 1979 for both the estab- lishment of letters of credit and shipments (FE Circular No. 8/79; see also entry for March 24, be low). March 4. In addition to newspapers (wh ich had been exempted in March 1978), publishers of the Koran were exempted from the m in imum margin requirement on the opening of letters of credit for the import of newsprint (BCD Circular No. 2 /79 ). March 10. The validity of the n in th commodity exchange agreement with Bulgaria was extended fu r ther un t il March 31, 1979 for the opening of letters of credit and un t il June 30, 1979 for the completion of ship- ments (FE Circular No. 11/79). March 11. Following the expiry of the in fo rmal extension of the Indo-Pakistan trade agreement on June 30, 1978, new procedures were announced. In PAKISTAN Pak is tan, such trade would be conducted by a public sector agency, wh i le in India, both the private and the pub l ic sectors could engage in such trade. Thus, letters of credit for imports f rom Ind ia could only be opened for pub l ic sector agencies in Pakistan, whereas letters of credit opened by private or public sector importers in Ind ia could on ly be advised to public sector exporters in Pak is tan. Settlements could be arranged under the As ian C lea r ing Un ion mechanism or in convertible for- eign currencies at the option of the importer or exporter (FE C i rcu lar No. 12 /79 ). March 22. M in imum marg in requirements of 25 per cent and 35 per cent were imposed on the opening of letters of credit for the import of synthetic fibers and synthetic ya rn, respectively (BCD Circular No. 3 / 7 9 ). March 24. The va l id i ty of the February 1977 com- mod i ty exchange agreement w i th Poland was extended for the th i rd t ime for the completion of shipments only. Sh ipmen ts could now be effected un t il Ju ly 31, 1979, wh i le the dead l ine for the opening of letters of credit remained at Ap r il 30, 1979 (FE Circular No. 15 /79). The v a l i d i ty of the agreement was extended for the fou r th t ime on October 27, 1979 to October 31, 1979 for the open ing of letters of credit and to June 30, 1980 for the completion of shipments (FE Circular No. 47 /79 ). March 27. The l im it on imports and exports of Pak is tan rupee currency notes was raised from PRs 20 to PRs 100 a person (FE C ircu lar No. 16 /79 ). April 1. The permitted re ten t ion l im it for foreign exchange held in countries other than Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Ind ia, or Israel was raised f rom the equiva- lent of «£ stg. 100 to the equ iva lent of US$500 (Gov- ernment No t if ica t ion No. 1 ( l ) - E F / EX P / 7 9 ). April 26. Interest rates on large foreign currency deposits (of at least US$100,000) were reduced by 1 percentage point to a range of 12-13 per cent with effect from May 2, 1979 (FE Circular No. 22/79; see also en t ry for January 16, above). Interest rates on other foreign currency deposits remained unchanged. April 30. A m i n im um margin requirement of 100 per cent was imposed on the opening of letters of credit for the import of tallow and synthetic ya rn (BCD C ircu lar No. 4 /79 ). May 10. The validity of the n in th commodity ex- change agreement with Bulgaria was extended for the th i rd t ime u n t il June 30, 1979 for the opening of letters of credit and un t il September 30, 1979 for the com- pletion of shipments (FE Circular No. 24/79; see also en t ry for March 10, above). May 19. The annual exchange allocations for tuition fees and books for students in Europe and Australia were raised f rom US$3,060 to US$3,600 and from US$102 to US$150, respectively (FE Circular No. 26 /79 ). May 30. The validity period of the 1977 commodity exchange agreement with North Korea was extended 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN un t il June 30, 1979 for the opening of letters of credit and until September 30, 1979 for the completion of shipments (FE Circular No. 29 /79 ). June 11. The terms and commodity lists of the Apr il 12, 1979 commodity exchange agreement w i th Poland were made public (FE Circular No. 3 1 / 7 9 ). Letters of credit covering exports and imports listed in the agreement could be opened until June 30, 1980 and shipments were to be completed by December 31, 1980. All transactions under the agreement would be expressed in U.S. dollars and would be channeled through special nonconvertible U.S. dollar accounts. June 13. The terms and commodity lists of the one- year commodity exchange agreement w i th the People's Republic of China were made public (FE Circular No. 32 /79 ). All transactions were to be channeled through special U.S. dollar clearing accounts. June 21. The ban on the export of staple cotton, imposed on December 12, 1978, was l if ted. June 21. The validity of the 1977 commodity ex- change agreement w i th Czechoslovakia was fu r ther extended to September 30, 1979 for the opening of letters of credit and to March 31, 1980 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 33/79). June 27. The terms and commodity lists of the March 21, 1979 commodity exchange agreement w i th the U.S.S.R. were made public (FE Circular No. 34/79). While prices in contracts could be expressed in any freely convertible foreign currency, payments docu- ments were to be drawn in U.S. dollars and all transac- tions under the agreement would be channeled through special nonconvertible U.S. dollar accounts. July 1. The 1979/80 Import Policy Order was pub- lished (SRO 581 ( I ) /79 ). In response to sectoral needs, the import status of a large number of items was changed without, however, materially a f fec t ing the degree of overall liberalization of the import system. Imports of polypropylene ropes for ships, certain agri- cultural implements and machinery for the garment manufacturing industry, parts for radio recorders, syn- thetic bristles, flash lights, microfilm readers for libraries, and asbestos board were added to the free list. Items removed from the permitted list included road rollers up to 12 tons, certain petroleum products, and certain components for the assembly and manufacture of tele- vision sets; imports of cement by the public sector also were restricted. The procedure for gran t ing permission for the import of banned items of machinery up to PRs 2.5 million for exporting firms and up to PRs 0.5 million for other firms was simplified. Also, the State Bank of Pakistan was empowered to permit foreign exchange allocations of up to US$20,000 for the setting up of offices abroad by exporters with annual exports of at least PRs 2 million (previously, PRs 5 m i l l i o n ). Finally, the import license and permit fee was raised to a 306 un i fo rm 2 per cent of the value of the license or permit issued. July 1. The tax rate on income derived from export activities was lowered fu r ther f rom 50 per cent to 45 per cent of the normal income tax rates. July 1. Standardized rebates of import and excise duties on raw materials incorporated in exports were announced for 53 export items. July 7. The exchange allowances for business travel abroad were raised from US$80 to US$120 a person a day up to a max imum of US$3,600 (previously, US$2,400) for each business trip (FE Circular No. 36 /79 ). July 21. It was announced that rebates would be paid at the rate of 12.5 per cent of the f.o.b. export value for exports of canvas footwear and engineering goods, including electrical appliances and machinery, construction material and transportation equipment, and light and heavy engineering goods (Public Notice No. 5 (20)/79-EIII). The list of engineering goods qualifying for rebates was published in FE Circular No. 46/79 of October 24, 1979; exports of engineering goods on deferred payment terms exceeding 120 days were excluded. July 30. The 100 per cent m in imum margin require- ment on letters of credit for the import of tallow imposed on April 30, 1979 was lowered to 50 per cent for tallow imported by industrial users. For tallow imported by commercial importers the requirement remained at 100 per cent (BCD Circular No. 8/79; see also entry for April 30, above). August 5. Margin requirements on the opening of import letters of credit were tightened. A 25 per cent marg in would be applied to truck and bus chassis; milk and cream (including baby food ); butter; medicines; secondhand clothing; construction and engineering equip- ment; ju te bags; medicinal herbs, crude drugs, and pharmaceutical raw materials; and cement. A 50 per cent marg in was required for industrial raw materials; spices; electric bulbs; unexposed films; synthetic fibers; raw jute; raw rubber for tires and tubes; and tallow for indus tr ial importers. No margin would be required for agricultural and industrial machinery and its spare parts and components; edible oils; crude petroleum and its products; items under the tied list; books, magazines, jou rna ls, and periodicals; imports under the Raw Mate- rials Replenishment Scheme; newsprint for newspapers and the Koran; tea; and rock phosphate and kieselguhr for manu fac tu r ing fertilizers. All other imports (includ- ing synthetic yarn and tallow for commercial importers) were subjected to a 100 per cent margin requirement (BCD Circular No. 10/79). August 13. The 10 per cent duty on the export of staple cotton was withdrawn for shipments from the 1978/79 crop only. September 1. A concessional rate of 50 per cent ad valorem was granted on imports of impregnated filter ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution paper by recognized m anu f a c tu r e rs of indus t r ial prod- ucts. Du ty exemptions were granted for impor ts of gold and uncut precious and semiprecious stones. September 4. Wheel chairs for invalids were exempted f rom import duty. September 5. The terms and commodity lists for the J u ly 12, 1979 commodity exchange agreement w i th Czechoslovakia were made public (FE C i rcu lar No. 4 2 / 7 9 ). All deliveries under the agreement were to be made by December 31, 1980 and letters of credit and payments documents were to be denom ina ted in U.S. dollars and channeled th rough special nonconve r t ib le U.S. dollar accounts. September 9. With effect f rom September 10, 1979 the interest rates on large foreign currency deposits (of at least US$100,000) were raised by 1 percentage po int to a range of 13-14 per cent (FE Circular No. 43/79; see also entry for Ap r il 26, above). Interest rates on o ther foreign currency deposits remained unchanged. September 10. The rates of impo rt du t ies on petro- leum products were reduced. September 16. BCD Circular No. 12/79 modified the new regime of m in imum ma rg in requirements on import letters of credit introduced on August 5 (see above). Electromedical equipment not m anu f a c tu r ed locally was exempt f rom the m a rg in requirement. The marg in on raw ju te, wood pu lp, and surgical in s t ru- ments, apparatus, and appliances (not m anu f a c tu r ed w i th in the coun t ry) was reduced to 25 per cent (BCD Circular No. 12 /79 ). September 19. Tennis balls were exempted f rom import duty. September 24. The m i n im um ma rg in requ i rement on the opening of letters of credit for the import of ships for scrap was fixed at 50 per cent (BCD C i rcu lar No. 13/79). October 16. The Government announced its inten- tion to l im it licensing of imports for the private sector to the 1978/79 value. Quarterly cumulative ce i l ings were to be prescribed by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports for each importer and product on the basis of licenses issued in 1978/79. However, there would be selective relaxation for new ly established firms, for imports of capital goods for modernization, and for replacements to meet increased raw ma ter ial needs, especially of export industries. There would also be provision for higher international prices, especially in the case of crude petroleum and its derivatives and for temporary price reductions ar is ing f rom financially a t trac t ive bu lk imports. October 17. The surrender requ irement period for all incom ing foreign exchange was extended f rom one month to three months (Notification SRO 1016(1 ) / 7 9 ). October 21. Interest rates on large foreign currency deposits were raised further to a range of 15.75-15.88 per cent (FE Circular No. 45/79; see also en try for September 9, above). PAKISTAN October 25. With retroactive effect from July 1, 1979 export financing was allowed up to a limit of 33.33 per cent (as against 25 per cent previously) of the preced- ing year's export performance (BCD Circular No. 1 4 / 7 9 ). October 28. Imports by the TCP were exempt from the ma rg in requirements on import letters of credit. However, domestic letters of credit opened in favor of the TCP in relation to the import of any commodity th rough the TCP were subjected to the same minimum ma rg in requ iremen ts as might be prescribed from time to t ime for import letters of credit for these commodities (BCD C i rcu lar No. 15/79). November 11. The va l id i ty of the tenth commodity exchange agreement w i th Bulgaria was extended to February 20, 1980 for open ing letters of credit and up to May 20, 1980 for the completion of shipments (FE C i rcu lar No. 49 /79 ). November 13. The m in imum marg in requirement for the open ing of letters of credit for the import of t ru ck and bus chassis was w i thdrawn (BCD Circular No. 16 /79 ). November 26. The m i n im um margin requirement for the open ing of letters of credit for the import of jeeps (completely knocked-down) was withdrawn (BCD C i r cu l ar No. 18 /79). December 2. The exchange allowance for private tr ips to Ind ia, which had been raised from US$30 to US$75 a person in June 1978, was lowered to US$45 a person (FE Circular No. 51 /79 ). December 8. The va l id i ty of the 1974 commodity exchange agreement between the TCP and A. B. Sukab of Sweden was f u r t h er extended to June 30, 1980 for open ing of letters of credit and to September 30, 1980 for the completion of shipments (FE Circular No. 52 /79 ). December 13. With effect from December 15, 1979 interest rates on large foreign currency deposits (of at least US$100,000) were reduced to a range of 14.35- 14.50 per cent. Interest rates on other foreign currency deposits rema ined unchanged (FE Circulars Nos. 45/79 and 5 3 / 7 9 ). December 20. The m in imum margin requirement for the open ing of letters of credit for the import of raw materials for the manufacture of tires and tubes and for the plywood industry was reduced to 25 per cent, wh i le the m i n im um marg in requirement for the import of chemicals and t inp la te by the ghee manufacturing indu s t ry was w i thdrawn (BCD Circular No. 20/79). December 24. The terms and the commodity list of the commodity exchange agreement with North Korea of September 10, 1979 were made public. Letters of credit and payment documents were to be denominated in deutsche mark and channeled through a special nonconvertible deutsche mark account (FE Circular No. 54 /79 ). 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Panama is the P an am an i an Balboa, which is pegged to the U.S. do l lar at B 1 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates f ree ly in Panama; locally issued currency is represented by silver balboas and subs id iary coin, and several commemora t ive coins. Commercial banks quote buy ing and se l l ing rates for cer ta in other currenc ies based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in marke ts abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. On November 26, 1946, Panama no t if ied the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sec- t ions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a sem iau tonomous i n s t i t u t i on of the Panaman ian Gove rnmen t. The Price Regu la t ion Office is responsible for the imp lemen ta t ion of restric- tions on imports of commodities th at compete w i th na t ional production and on cer ta in exports. The M in- istry of Commerce and Indus t ry determines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the M in is t ry of Agr icu l ture and Livestock Development, jo in t ly w i th the Price Regu la t ion Office, those for ce r ta in ag r icu l tu ral commodities. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing w i th present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import l icens ing also applies to imports of various foodstuffs. Other imports are free. Imports by the public sector, however, are subject to special requ i remen ts. Payments abroad may be made freely. In addition to import du ty, a tax of 7.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value is levied on pr iva te sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the rate is 2.5 per cent and 3.5 per cent, respectively; books are exempt. Most imports are also subject to a tax of 5 per cent cal- culated on the sum of the c.i.f. value and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fuels, lubricants, and related products, as well as food- stuffs, specified medicinal and pharmaceutical products, and imports into the Free Zones. 308 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for h um a n i t a r i a n, educa t iona l, medical, or in fo rma t ional purposes. Au tho r iza t ion is requ i red for exports of coffee, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle, and for certain m anu- f a c tu r ed products in short supp ly. Merchandise on w h i ch export taxes are imposed is also subject to licens- ing. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, p la t inum, manganese, and other minerals, sugar, bananas, coco- n u t s, scrap metals, pearls, an imal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of cement, certain foods tuffs, f i rea rms, and ammun i t ion are prohibited. Cer ta in non t rad i t ional exports are eligible for tax credit certificates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts for and proceeds f rom invisibles are not restricted, except for most payments to Rhodesia. A t r av el tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets purchased for trave lers s ta r t ing the ir t r ip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on cap i tal receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Several foreign- controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only w i th nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins w i th face va lues of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may f ree ly hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any fo rm with residents or nonresi- den ts at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other th an jewe l ry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents o ther th an the mone tary authorities; import licenses are issued f ree ly by the M in is try of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold pro- duced in Panama are subject to an export du ty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coin (other than U.S. coins, which are exemp t) to a d u ty of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1979 June 15. Import quotas were introduced on toilet soap with an f.o.b. va lue of US$3 or less per net k i logram. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Papua New Gu inea is the Papua New Gu inea K ina. The exchange ra te of the k i na in terms of the Aus tra l ian dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, is adjusted da i ly on the basis of its re la t ion sh ip to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Guinea's ma jor t rad ing pa r tne rs. On December 31, 1979 the official buy ing and se l l ing rates for the Aus t ra l ian dollar were $A 1.3120 and $A 1.3091, respectively, per K 1. The Bank of Papua New Gu inea ( the central b ank) deals w i th local banks in Au s t r a l i an dollars, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen are also offi- cially quoted; the Bank of Papua New Gu in ea establishes daily buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar on the basis of the m idd le rate for the U.S. do l lar in terms of the Aus tra l ian dollar as quoted by the Reserve Bank of Australia. On December 31, 1979 its buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar were US$ 1.4501 and US$ 1.4475, respectively, per K 1. The corresponding rates for the public posted by the authorized dealers were $A 1.3148 buying, and $A 1.3063 selling, per K 1, and US$1.4529 buying, and US$1.4447 selling, per K 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Papua New Gu inea fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom December 4, 1975. Administration of Control The Bank of Papua New Gu inea adm in is te rs exchange control according to the Foreign Exchange Regu la t ions issued in November 1973. Overall policy is de te rm ined by the Gove rnment with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Depar tment of F inance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated extensive powers to the commercial banks opera t ing in Papua New Gu inea, which have been appointed au thor ized dealers in fore ign exchange. Export licensing is adm in is te red by the Depar tment of Foreign A f fa i rs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Con t rac tual commitments to persons resident outside Papua New Gu inea, which are expressed in a fo re ign currency, must be met by paymen ts in fo re ign currency .1 Export proceeds may be received in any fo re ign currency or in k ina f rom an overseas bank's account in Papua New Guinea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Gu inea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; f u n ds credited to such accounts may be w i thd rawn w i thout f u r t h er fo rma l i ty. 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the k ina. On ly in exceptional c ircums tances is approval given for a non res ident b a nk account to be denom ina ted in a fo re ign cu r rency. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of a l im i t ed n um b er of goods are restricted for h e a l th, secu r i ty, and pro tec t ion reasons. Imports of f rozen pou l t ry, flour, stock feed, and rice are subject to quo tas for reasons of domestic pro tec t ion; for the first th r ee commod i t ies, quotas are ad jus ted qua r te r ly, reflect- ing the ex tent to which local production can meet domes- t ic demand. There are no impo rt l icens ing requ iremen ts. No res t r ic t ions are placed on paymen ts for imports, except for goods impo r ted f rom Rhodesia. Au thor ized dealers have powers to approve most t ran sac t ions w i thout com- p le t ing app l ica t ion forms or re fe r r ing to the Bank of Papua New G u i n e a. Approval is given for payment to be made u n d er extended c red it terms for items such as cap i tal equ ipmen t. Payments for Invisibles App roval is read i ly given for most paymen ts for invisi- bles, prov ided that suppo r t ing documen ta t ion can be produced. The rem i t tance overseas of l i fe insu rance p r em i ums on new po l ic ies w r i t t en a f t er December 31, 1975 in the names of p e rm a n e nt residents is not per- m i t t ed. No abso lu te l im i ts are imposed on travel fund s, a l though app l ica t ions for excep t iona l ly large amounts are re fe r red to the Bank of Papua New Gu inea for con s id e r a t ion. Travelers may not take or send out of P apua New G u i n ea domestic cu r rency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in co in; however, domestic coins issued for n um i sm a t ic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas v is i to rs are free to take out any currency which they had b rought in and recorded on arr iva l. Exports and Export Proceeds Res iden ts of Papua New Gu inea may export goods w i thout exchange control f o rm a l i ty (except to Rhodes ia) on cond i t ion that they comp ly w i th the terms of the gene ral a u t h o r i ty issued by the Bank of Papua New G u i n e a. The essential cond i t ions of th is au thor i ty are that payment for goods exported is received w i th in six m o n t hs of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an au thor ized dealer in Papua New Gu inea. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the cond i t ions of the general au thor i ty, they must apply to the Bank for a specific authority. No au tho r i ty is needed for ce r ta in categories of goods, in c lud ing sundry items such as passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are requ ired for all types of goods under the Exports (Con t rol and V a l u a t i o n) Act. Special pro- visions are in force for the export of prescribed goods 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (logs, pearls, tuna fish, and wood ch ips ). Specified commodities are subject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required only for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without l im i t; advance commitments, however, are given only in exceptional circumstances. New invest- ment outside Papua New Guinea by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain limitations. Where an investment is for portfolio reasons, the amount which may be invested in a 12-month period is limited to K 10,000 for individuals, K 25,000 for private com- panies, and K 100,000 for public companies. Invest- ment may only be in the fo rm of marketable company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign securities by permanent residents.2 Persons who have been declared to be temporary resi- dents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repatriate the ir surplus earn ings without limit. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased foreign investment in Papua New Guinea. In most cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refejp such applications to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign investments other than those in banking and insurance are also subject to approval by the National Investment and Development Authority. In addition to investment in the form of loans and 2 Foreign securities are defined in the Central Banking Act as includ- ing deposits in overseas bank accounts and debts due by persons outside Papua New Guinea. equity capital, approval from the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is also necessary for the acknowledgment of indebtedness so that a right to receive a payment is conferred on a nonresident. Gold Under the Cen tral Bank ing (Gold) Regulations, approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is neces- sary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. However, the regulations perm it Papua New Gu inean m ine rs to export gold to Aus tra l ia for re f in ing without specific approval. The regulations do not apply to gold used in the course of a person's profession, to Papua New Gu inea currency, or to gold coins with a gold content of less than K 50. A gold coin valued at K 100 is legal tender but does not circulate; it may be taken out f ree ly by travelers. Changes during 1979 July L Rice imports were made subject to an annual quota of 65,000 tons. October 18. The annual rice import quota was raised to 76,000 tons retroactive to Ju ly 1, 1979. November 6. As part of the revenue measures under the 1980 budget, imports of vegetables were made sub- ject to a du ty of 30 per cent; the import du ty on port- able domestic electric appliances was raised from 30 per cent to 50 per cent; imported a ircraft were subjected to a 2l/2 per cent levy; ships and boats under 30 feet were no longer exempted from import duty; the export tax on logs was raised f rom 5 per cent to 10 per cent but a rebate of 50 per cent was allowed for t imber companies which met their approved processing schedules; and a w i thho ld ing tax of 10 per cent was introduced on royal- ties paid to nonresidents. December 17. The value of the kina against a trade- weighted basket of currencies was appreciated by 5 per cent. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at 0 126 = US$1. There are two exchange mar- kets. Exports and imports (except unrecorded border trade and certain imports from Argentina and Brazil f a l l ing under the regional trade regime —despacho aduanero regional), certain services, all government transactions, payments made under the reciprocal credit mechanism of the Latin American Free Trade Associa- tion (LAFTA), and registered private transactions and related profit remittances are channeled through the official market (mercado libre bancario), where the buying or selling rates are 0 126 per US$1, subject to certain taxes and commissions. A tax of 1.5 per cent is levied on purchases and sales of exchange in the official market, except for transactions w i th foreign embassies and diplomats, with meat packing plants and those relat- ing to investments in Paraguay under the terms of Investment Law No. 550/75. In addition, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. All transactions not channeled through the official market pass through the fluctuating free market (mercado libre fluctuante) in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates in the fluctuating free market were 0 133.50 and 0135.50, respectively, per US$1. Additional selling rates arise from taxes of 10 per cent on outward remittances of profits and dividends and of 30 per cent on outward remittances of interest, income shares, rent, honoraria, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents from Paraguayan sources. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized banks, but not the exchange houses, are required to sell 30 per cent of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts in specified currencies1 to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts which the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned maintain with each other, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Clearing takes place every four months but Paraguay, as a relatively less developed country, may request special settlement 1 Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. every two months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities require authorization.2 Imports of wheat and wheat flour are effected by the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce. Certain other items require a license from the Ministry of Interior; these are ma in ly narcotics, gambling devices, and arms and ammun i t ion. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.3 All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of certain commodi- ties are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value for a period of not less than 120 days. Advance deposits are not required for public sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain international organizations, imports of petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain machinery and agricultural equipment, wheat, cement, and printed matter from any source, imports from neighboring countries and Uruguay, and imports from other LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan conces- sion list (the National List). The Central Bank has authority to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; how- ever, for goods or ig ina t ing in LAFTA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other LAFTA goods (mainly pharmaceuticals in a special l i s t ), the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived from petroleum is subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighboring countries and Uruguay). There is an additional surcharge of 5 per cent on imports from all sources of telephone and telegraph equipment, tele- vision receivers, and radios and record players and their parts and accessories. Surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal imports exempted from the exchange surcharge: wheat, cement, crude petroleum, equipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation, agricultural tractors, imports for the Government, imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes, and imports by foreign diplomats and certain international organiza- tions. Agr icu l tural and industrial machinery and equip- ment imported through the Spanish free zone in Para- 2 These include table wine in bu lk, na tural grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or with any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions du r ing local harvest seasons. 3 These include certain textiles and con t inuous paper tapes for use in cash registers and computers and also imports intended for re-export. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY guay, a g r i c u l t u r al m a c h i n e ry and equ ipment for the N a t ion al Wheat Program, books and periodicals, and impo r ts for inves tmen ts und er Inv e s tm ent Law No. 550/75 are also exempted. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export indu s t r ies receive exemp- tion on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a t a r i ff surcharge is levied on certain imports. On goods that are not exempt, the rate of surcharge is generally 12 per cent to 24 per cent (8 per cent to 16 per cent for certain goods subject to LAFTA concessions) and the sur- charge is levied on the c.i.f. value, calculated as the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports f rom neighboring countries and Uruguay, or the f.o.b. va lue p lus 20 per cent for imports from other countries. Exempt from this additional import duty are pub l ic sector and diplo- matic imports, raw materials and equ ipment for the production of goods that are subject to i n t e r n al consump- tion taxes, imports under the Investment Law, and all imported goods taxed under the In te rnal Consumption Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax rang ing from 5-10 per cent, and cer ta in imports are subject to a 15 per cent ad valorem levy. There is also a un i f ied import du ty of 12 per cent for in te rmed ia te goods and raw materials for industry. Imports of specified goods ( i n c l u d i ng television sets and precious metals) may not be f inanced w i th foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval f rom the Central Bank. This approval is no rma l ly granted only for impor ts of mach inery and other capital goods . Import payments must be made th rough banks, at the official ma rket rate of exchange. For certain com- modities or ig ina t ing in Argentina and Braz il and fa l l ing under the regional trade regime, import payments need not be channeled through banks at the off ic ial rate of exchange. As long as proof of payment of the preferen- tial tar iff rates for these imports can be presented, payment may be effected w i th the importer's own fore ign exchange or by purchasing foreign exchange at the fluctuating free market rate. Import payments are free from formal restriction, but certain delays arise f rom time to time as a result of the system of releasing foreign exchange to the private commercial banks only on a weekly basis. Payments th rough the LAFTA clearing system are made promptly. Payments for Invisibles Payments for almost all current invisibles are chan- neled through the free market, w i th the exception of travel tickets for foreign technicians employed by government agencies and remittances of p r inc ipal and interest on capital brought into the coun try and registered at the Central Bank under Investment Law No. 550/75. By Law No. 771 of November 14, 1979, the former l im i ts on profit remittances were e l im ina ted. All other remittances, such as students' l iv ing expenses abroad, payments for travel tickets, medical services, private 312 g i f t s, f am i ly assistance, and any other services, are channeled th rough the free market. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 per cent on international a i r l i ne tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are exports of rawhides. Beef exports are subject to annual export quotas and certain other exports require prior authorization in order to ensure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic indus tr ies. All other exports are free f rom licensing requirements, but some require a certificate issued by the Ins t i tu te of Technology and Standards, the M in is try of Indu s t ry and Commerce, a n d / or the M in i s t ry of Ag r icu l tu re and Stock Raising. The proceeds of exports must be collected w i th in 180 days a f ter completion of the bank ing formalities related to the shipping documents. The foreign exchange must be converted at banks authorized to deal in exchange. For all exports the Central Bank establishes m i n im um export prices denominated in U.S. dollars. Export proceeds corresponding either to these prices or to the invoiced value, whichever is higher, must be surrendered in the official exchange market; for coffee exports, however, the equ iva lent of 50 per cent of the m i n im um export price may be retained and used to pay d iv idends and interest owed to nonresidents and to pay for mach inery and equ ipment imported for the exporter's own use. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to authorized banks. Export taxation is based on a l ist of assumed export values (aforos) published by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Most exports are subject to taxes, payable in guaranies, rang ing from 2.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value. There is a tax on exports of soybeans rang ing from approximately 3 per cent for cooperatives to nearly 7 per cent for other exporters; exports of expellers and soybean flour are tax exempt. One group of exports is subject to an add i t ional tax of 1.5 per cent. Exports of meat products are exempt f rom export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles may be retained or sold in the fluctuating free market. There are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may b r ing in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be channeled through the authorized banks or exchange houses. Banks may provide foreign exchange at the off ic ial market rate for transfers of registered capital, subject to presentation of appropriate documentation. All other capital move- ments are channeled through the free market (i.e., the exchange houses) w i th the prior approval of the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank. Inve s tment Law No. 550/75 empowers the Gove rnment to grant special tax, customs, import sur- charge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed investments, provided that these are du ly registered and approved. Capital imported and registered under this law may be retransferred in installments of up to 20 per cent from the third year a f ter the beginning of production, in the currency or ig ina l ly imported. Gold Decree-Law No. 18/52 provides that the Central Bank may prescribe the max imum amount of gold and foreign exchange that may be held by residents; th is requirement does not apply to amoun ts held by the Central Bank or by ins t i tu t ions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may free ly deal in gold coin, gold bars, and gold leaf w i th residents and non- residents. Exports and imports of gold in any form PARAGUAY other than jewelry by nonbank residents and industrial users require the prior approval of the Central Bank; paymen ts for gold imports by indus t r ial users must be made through authorized banks at the official exchange rate, and payments for imports by others must be made th rough exchange houses at the f luc tua t ing free market rate. Changes during 1979 November 14. Law No. 771 eliminated limits on profit remittances. (Formerly the General Banking Law had established a scale for the remittance of profits through the off ic ial ma rke t; rem i t tance of 30 per cent of any one year's prof i ts for commercial banks and financial in s t i tu t ions and 60 per cent for investment and mortgage banks was authorized; the rema in ing profits were reinvested in the financial sector or in other specifically authorized activities and 20 per cent of such reinvested amounts could be t rans fe r red abroad annua l ly .) 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Peru is the Peruv ian Sol. The exchange rate for the sol is established by the Central Reserve Bank in relation to the U.S. dollar, the in ter- vention currency, and is adjusted f requen t ly on the basis of a set of indicators. Exchange market trans- actions may also be conducted in 14 other currencies.1 All exchange transactions must be conducted th rough the bank ing system, and banks operating in the market are required to limit the margin between their buy ing and selling rates on any given day to not more than 0.5 per cent. No commissions are charged by the Central Reserve Bank on any exchange transaction. On Decem- ber 28, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S/. 249.50 and S/. 250.747, respectively, per US$1. Banks and nonbank f inanc ial enterprises may open foreign exchange demand and time deposit accounts for residents and nonresidents. In addition, banks may issue certificates of deposit denominated in foreign currencies. Funds deposited in these accounts or used to purchase these bank certificates must not be derived f rom export proceeds. Foreign currency certificates of deposit must be for amounts not less than US$1,000 and have a maturity no longer than 360 days. They are freely negotiable both in Peru and abroad and may be used by the holder for mak ing all permitted paymen ts and transfers, jncluding import payments. All foreign exchange receipts of residents must be sold to the banking system, or be deposited in foreign currency accounts, or be used to purchase foreign cur- rency certificates of deposit. Export proceeds, inc lud ing loans for the pref inanc ing of exports, must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank, which issues foreign exchange certificates equal to 90 per cent of the value of such receipts and converts the r em a i n i ng 10 per cent into soles at the official buy ing rate. The exchange certificates are denom ina ted in U.S. dollars, are valid for ten days, and are issued payable to the exporter's bank. The bank credits the exporter's account with the equivalent amount of soles at the b u y i ng rate of the sol on the day the receipts were surrendered, but the exporter retains the right to repurchase an equ iva lent value of exchange certificates to meet his own foreign currency obligations. If not utilized w i th in ten days, the certificates are canceled and the corresponding amount is credited to the account of the bank at the buy ing rate in effect at the close on the preceding busi- ness day, m inus a discount of 2 per cent. All permitted 1 Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lde rs, pounds s te r l ing, and Swiss francs, together with U.S. dollars, are prescribed for ex ternal trade transactions. For nontrade transactions, operations may also be effected in Aus tr ian schillings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, and Venezuelan bolivares. 314 foreign exchange payments and transfers may be effected either by means of exchange certificates, which are a claim on the Central Reserve Bank, or by the direct purchase of foreign exchange from the bank ing system at the official rate, or by the encashment of foreign cur- rency certificates of deposit purchased at the prevailing market rate, or directly f rom foreign currency accounts. Foreign exchange certificates may be used by exporters to open time deposit accounts at one, two, and three mon ths denominated in U.S. dollars at the Central Reserve Bank; such deposits earn interest at 0.5, 0.75, and 1 per cent, respectively, over the New York pr ime rate. Peru fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export and import licenses are issued by the Direc- torate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce, Indus try, Tourism, and Integration. The Central Reserve Bank issues foreign exchange certificates against receipts from exports, and authorizes, directly or by delegation, most payments for invisibles. Public sector imports require the approval of the Board for External Trans- actions of the Public Sector and must be registered with the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Pub l ic sector imports valued at more than US$10,000 also require a resolution of the M in is try of Economy and Finance. Borrow ing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrow ing abroad by the private sector with a govern- ment gua ran tee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommenda t ion of the High Committee of the Ex ternal Debt, the National P lann ing Institute, and the Permanent Commission on External Credit in the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance. The National Commission on Inves tment and Foreign Technology (CON ITE) supervises foreign direct investment in Peru, the use of fo re ign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as we ll as the related roya l ty payments. Most payments for inv is ib les require the approval of either CONITE or the Cen tral Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency All exchange ma rket operations must be effected in one of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies,1 but exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank on ly in U.S. dollars. Settlements in respect of trade transac t ions with Poland must be made through special accounts denom ina ted in U.S. dollars, which have been established under a bilateral payments agree- ment. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the mu l t i- lateral clearing system of the La t in Ame r ican Free Trade Association (LAFTA ). Imports and Import Payments Goods not included in the List of Permitted Imports may not be imported (except for goods from Andean Pact countries and g i f t s ). Each import transaction of the private sector requires a specific import license. Goods included in the List of Permitted Imports and subject to "observation" may be imported only upon prior approval by the Directorate of Foreign Trade or the appropriate ministry. Items subject to "observa- tion" may not generally be imported by the private sector to protect domestic industry, or because they are subject to state monopoly, or because they are deemed damaging to the public welfare. The great ma jor i ty of import items are included in the List of Permitted Imports without "observation" requirements and are free of any quan t i ta t ive import restriction; for such imports, the specific import license is issued automati- cally by the Directorate of Foreign Trade, provided that the importer is listed in the National Registry of Importers. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports f rom countries of the Andean Pact do not require an import license and need on ly be registered with the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Imports of raw materials and inter- mediate goods for the production of nontraditional exports are exempted from import duties and do not require a specific import license, provided that the appro- priate m in is try determines that such imports qua l ify under the Temporary Admission Regime. Certain industrial raw materials and fertilizers, as well as certain agricultural commodities, such as rice and wheat, may be imported only by the Na t ional Enterprise for Indus tr ial Marketing (ENC I ), and crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives on ly by PETROPERU, a govern- ment agency. Imports of capital goods must be covered by irrevo- cable documentary credits and the in te rmed ia t ing bank must guarantee re fund ing of the foreign currency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant docu- men ta ry credit expires. Advance paymen ts for imports of capital goods are permitted under certain circum- stances. Foreign borrowing to finance imports of the private sector may be subject to a cash deposit require- ment (see below). All goods, whether imported or produced domesti- cally, are subject to a sales tax, levied at a general rate of 22 per cent, a max imum rate of 40 per cent, prefer- ential rates between 2 per cent and 6 per cent, and reduced rates corresponding to effective rates of between 15 per cent and 20 per cent; there is also a list of PERU exempted items. In addition to the applicable import du ty payab le2 most imports are subject to one or more of these additional taxes: ( 1) a temporary import sur- charge of 10 per cent of c.i.f. value; (2) an additional import tax of 1 per cent of c.i.f. value; and (3) a mari- t ime fre ight tax of 10 per cent of the ocean freight charges. However, certain goods originating in Andean Pact countries may be imported du ty free. Public sector impor ts mus t, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Authorization of the Central Reserve Bank or other agencies is required for most payments for invisibles, but the sale of foreign exchange is generally authorized freely, provided genuine current payments are involved. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Remittance of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances, requires approval of CONITE and a prior tax clearance. Remittance of profits on fore ign cap i tal invested in Peru is limited to 20 per cent a year, a l though a higher percentage may be permitted in exceptional cases.n All payments for royalties, patents, trademarks, and licenses require the prior approval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign parent company or its affiliates. The effective interest rate on a new loan from a foreign parent company or its a f f i l ia te may not exceed by more than 3 per cent the p reva i l ing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the coun try in whose currency the transaction is conducted. Approval by the Central Reserve Bank is required for purchases of foreign exchange for payments of interest on certain loans, for remittances for social and human i ta r ian purposes, for income, insurance, and pension remittances to nonresidents, and for expenditures of agencies, branches, and offices of nonresident firms. Interest payments by public sector entities require the approval of the General Directorate of Public Credit. The indicative annual limit on purchases of foreign exchange for tourism is US$4,000 a person (US$500 a year for children under 12). For business travel the l im it is US$300 a person a day up to US$4,500 a trip, p lus representation expenses of US$500 a trip; approval of the Central Reserve Bank is required for business travel allocations. For both tourist and business travel there is a flat tax of US$35 payable in national currency. Remittances for studies abroad require the approval of the National Institute of Scholarships and Educational Loans (!NABEC) and are generally limited to US$2,000 a mon th for external students and US$400 a month for residential students or those on scholarships. Limits are also established for medical travel and for certain other 2 A new customs Janua ry 1, 1980. :{ Companies exporting at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Pact and m in ing companies are exempt. ta r i ff entered into force for all imports on 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU types of t r a v e l. F am i ly r em i t t an c es by P e r u v i an res iden ts a re l im i t ed to US$400 a mon th and r equ i re the a u t h o r i- za t ion of the C e n t r al Reserve B ank. Fore igners res ident in Peru may rem it up to 50 per cent of the ir a n n u al income to cover specified f o r e i gn ob l iga t ion s, but those who a v a il themse lves of these p rov is ions are requ ired to w a ive a ll r igh ts to pu rcha se fo re ign exchange u n d er other p rov is ions of the exchange laws. The C e n t r al Reserve Bank may au tho r i ze purchases of exchange in excess of the above l im i ts in j u s t i f i ed cases. Nonresidents v i s i t i ng Peru for purposes of tou r ism or bus iness may, upon l e av ing the coun t ry, purchase up to US$50 in fo re ign exchange on p re sen ta t ion of evidence th at at least that am o u nt in fo re ign exchange had been converted in to soles in the preceding 30 days. The export of domestic cu r rency in excess of S/. 1,000 by trave lers is proh ib i ted, but the Cen t ral Reserve Bank may grant exemptions in special c ircums tances. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are p roh ib i ted. The Banco M ine ro del Peru has a monopo ly over the export of u n c ut precious stones and pearls, and M I N E R O P E RU and the Banco M in e ro over exports of gold and s i lve r. Among other exports, monopo l ies are held by M IN P ECO, over exports of m in e r a l s; P E S CA P E RU, over expor ts of f ish meal and f ish o i l; PETRO PERU, over expo r ts of pe tro leum de r iva t ive s; and ENC I, over expo r ts of coffee and cotton. All exports are subject to license, and all export proceeds, as well as export p r e f i n a n c i ng loans, must be su r rende red to the Cen t ral Reserve Bank w i t h in ten wo rk ing days of receipt. T rad i t ional exports mu st be sold against an irrevocable le t ter of cred it con f i rmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and w i th the au tho r iza t ion of the Cen t ral Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight draf ts, provided t h at p aym ent is received w i th in 180 days of sh ipmen t. Exporters of non t r ad i t ion al exports or local h and i- c ra ft articles are g ran ted t r an s f e r ab le tax cred it cer t if i- cates (certificados de reintegro tributario or CERTEX) equ iva lent to a m a x im um of 30 per cent of the c. & f. va lue ( the f.o.b. v a lue is used when the goods are shipped in fo re ign vessels).4 These certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax ob l iga t ions or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nation adm in is- ters an export credit gua ran tee program and the Indus- t r i al Bank prov ides or a r ranges export f inance for n o n t r a d i t i o n al exports. Most t r ad i t ion al exports are subject to a tax of 17.5 per cent, wh ich is payable in soles, but exports of sugar and of copper f r om the m i n e r al deposits of Cua jone or by sma ll and med ium- sized m i n i ng en terpr ises are exemp t. 4 In add i t ion, 2 per cent is allowed for new expo r ts, 10 per cent for exports f r om ou ts ide the L ima-Ca l lao a rea, and 10 per cent for goods considered to be p r io r i ty exports. 316 Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds f r om inv i s ib les mu st be sold to the b a n k i ng system or deposited in authorized fo r e ign exchange accounts w i th in ten wo rk ing days of receipt. Trave lers may not b r i ng in more than S/. 1,000 in P e r u v i an c u r r e n c y, but the Cen t ral Reserve Bank may g r a nt excep t ional t r e a tm e nt in special circumstances. Capital A ll ou tw a rd cap i tal t r a n s f e rs require approva l. For t r a n s f e rs der ived f rom fo re ign direct inves tment the app rov al of CON ITE is requ ired, wh i le for most o ther t r an s f e rs the appropriate agency is the Central Reserve B a n k. M i n im um m a t u r i t i es and grace periods for d i f- f e r e nt categories of ex te rnal loans contracted or gua r- ant$ed by the pub l ic sector have been established. Fu r the rmo re, there was a global l im it of US$450 m i l- l ion a year f rom J u ly 1978 to December 1979 on the c o n t r a c t i ng of new pub l ic or pub l ic ly gua ran teed debt w i th a m a t u r i ty of more th an one year but less th an ten years. Most ex ternal borrow ing or loan renewals by the p r iv a te sector are subject to a 15 per cent non- in te res t -bea r ing cash deposit requirement in local cur- rency. Loan amo r t iza t ion paymen ts of the p r iva te sector are au tho r ized by the Cen tral Reserve Bank and those of the pub l ic sector by the General D irec tora te of Pub l ic C red i t. In cases where proceeds of fo re ign loans have been used to purchase fo re ign cu r r en cy bank ce r t i f ica tes of deposit or to make deposits directly to fo re ign cu r rency accounts, amor t iza t ion paymen ts on such loans are not e l ig ib le for t r an s f er at the off ic ial exchange cer t if ica te rate. B anks may receive f u n ds o r ig in a t ing abroad in the f o rm of d ra f t s, checks, bank t ran s fe r s, fo re ign cu r rency t r av e l e rs checks, or fo re ign notes and coin for deposit to fo r e ign cu r rency accounts m a in t a in ed in the name of res iden ts or non res iden ts. They may also issue fore ign exchange cer t if ica tes of deposit against such f u n d s. These f u n ds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor and both are exempt f rom income and inhe r i tance taxes un t il December 31, 1980. U n d er an exchange amnes ty, residents may repa t r ia te fo re ign assets w i thout spec ify ing the or ig in of such f u n ds and w i t h o ut f a c i ng penalties for hav ing violated exchange laws in effect pr ior to October 7, 1977. Such repa t r ia ted f u n ds are exempt from a ll taxes, in c lud ing in come taxes. In comp l iance w i th the fo re ign inve s tment regime approved by the coun t r ies of the A n d e an Pact, new fo re ign inv e s tm en ts must be au thor ized and registered w i th the app rop r ia te agency, in most instances CONITE, so th at such inves tmen ts are directed to projects con- sidered essential for the coun try's deve lopmen t. If a fo re ign company incorporated in Peru as of Ju ly 1, 1971 wished to benef it f rom the du ty - f ree program of the Car tagena Agreemen t, it was required to agree by June 30, 1974 to the g radual acquisition by na t ional ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investors of shares in the company so as to t r a n s f o rm it i n to a m ix ed or n a t i o n al company d u r i ng a m a x im um per iod of 15 years f o l l ow i ng the e n t e r i ng in to effect of th is regime. For th is purpose, m ixed compan ies are de f ined as those in wh ich na t ional investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the c ap i t a l, w h i le n a t i o n al companies are those in wh ich at least 80 per cent of the cap i tal is owned by n a t ion al investors. Since J u ne 30, 1974 the requ i red p a r t i c ip a t ion of n a t i o n al inves to rs in the cap i tal of an en terpr ise has been not less t h an 15 per cen t; this pa r t ic ipa t ion must be raised to at least 45 per cent a f ter 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of fore ign compan ies established in Peru a f t er J u ne 30, 1971, the 15 per cent pa r t ic ipa t ion by n a t i o n al inves tors must be secured at the t ime of the in i t i a t ion of produc- tion. Foreign investments in firms engaged in basic indu s t r ies or in m i n i ng ac t iv i t ies ( i n c l u d i ng pe t ro leum p r o d u c t i o n) and in firms that export at least 80 per cent of the ir p roduc t ion to countries ou ts ide the A n d e an Common Market are exempt f rom the requ i rement of g r adu al t r an s fo rm a t ion in to m ixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benef it f rom the du ty - f ree program of the Ca r tagena Ag reemen t. Foreign en ter- prises may not have access to domestic credit on terms longer t h an 3 years or in am o u n ts g rea ter t h an the ir cap i tal and reserves. Inves tment in the m i n i ng sector is governed by the General M i n i ng Law. Companies ho ld ing m i n i ng con- cessions may en ter in to m in ing contracts with the Gov- e r nm e nt p rov id ing for special incen t ives and gua ran tees or may con s t i tu te m ixed enterprises w i th gov e rnm ent pa r t ic ipa t ion of at least 25 per cent. The G o v e r nm e nt may g rant to m i n i ng concessionaries ( i n i t i a t i ng la rge- scale inves tment p rog ram s) tax incen t ives and g u a r a n- teed ava i lab i l i ty of fore ign exchange for t r an s f e rs for ( 1) recovery of inve s tmen t, (2) in te rest paymen ts if the rate does not exceed the p r ev a i l ing rate for s im i l ar loans in the f inanc ial market f rom which the loans o r ig ina te, (3) paymen ts for ju s t i f ied services, and (4) reasonable prof it rem i t tances, together w i th gua r- anteed access to the most favo rab le exchange rate. Mixed m i n i ng enterprises may receive a ll the bene f i ts and incen t ives wh ich may be gran ted by spec ial con- tract and, in add i t ion, special tax reductions. Gold The export of gold and s i lver in the fo rm of agglom- era ted or n a t ive me ta ls is the monopoly of M IN ERO P ERU, wh i le the ir export in the fo rm of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco M ine ro del Peru. The au thor i- t ies do not make foreign exchange ava i lab le for imports of gold other th an by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and authorized indu s t r i al and profess ional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be ca r r ied out by indu s t r i al and profess ional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco M i n e ro del PERU P e ru, but on ly M INEROPERU is authorized to make the i n i t i al pu rchase of new ly m ined gold and other precious me ta ls. Res iden ts t r av e l ing abroad may not take out j ew e l ry v a lu ed at over S/. 50,000 unless it has been reg is tered w i th the customs (S /. 15,000 when v i s i t ing n e i g h b o r i ng c o u n t r i e s ). Changes during 1979 January I. The tempo ra ry impo rt surcharge of 10 per cent in t rodu c ed in May 1978 was extended to Decem- ber 31, 1980 (Decree-Law No. 22376 of December 5, 1978 ). February 1. The m i n im um fore ign financing require- m e nt for impo r ts of most noncap i tal goods was reduced f r om 150 days to 120 days (Exchange Resolution No. 0 0 1 / 7 9 ). February 2. The m i n im um financing requ iremen ts for impo r ts of cap i tal goods were changed to US$20,001-100,000, one year; US$100,001-500,000, two years; US$500,001-2,000,060, th ree years; US$2,000,001-5,000,000, f o ur years; and above US$5,000,000, con su l ta t ion w i th the Central Reserve B ank was requ i red (Exchange Reso lu t ion No. 002 /79 ). February 13. The 6 per cent tax on m a r i t ime f re ight charges es tab l ished by Decree-Law No. 22202 of J u ne 6, 1978 was raised to 10 per cent. February 28. PESCAPERU was authorized to effect expo r ts of fish oil, which had been proh ib i ted since May 1976 (Sup reme Reso lu t ion No. 18-79-PE). March 2. The m i n i m um f inanc ing requ i remen ts for im p o r ts of cap i tal goods were aga in adjusted in accor- dance w i th the f o l l ow i ng schedu le: US$30,001-150,000, one y e a r; US$150,001-750,000, two years; US$750,001- 3,000,000, three years; US$3,000,001-10,000,000, four years; and above US$10,000,000, consu l ta t ion with the C en t r al Reserve B a nk was requ ired (Exchange Resolu- t i on No. 003 /79 ). March 7. Supreme Decree No. 005-79-ICTI/DM established a List of Imports Proh ib i ted u n t il Decem- ber 31, 1980. March 7. Decree-Law No. 22471 defined procedures for increases in t a r i ff protection for domestic i n d u s t ry and l ibe ra l ized provisions of Decree-Law No. 18350 (G en e r al Indu s t r i es L aw) wh ich had manda ted import p roh ib i t ions as a means of pro tec t ing loca l ly produced in te rmed ia te and cap i tal goods. March 15. Exchange Reso lu t ion No. 004-79-EF/90 p e rm i t t ed f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns to open c u r r e nt accoun ts w i th b a n ks abroad w i th fo re ign exchange other than that de r ived f r om exports or export p r e f in an c ing. Such f u n ds cou ld be used o n ly for ope ra t ions in the u n i f i ed exchange m a r k e t. April 2. The m i n im um financing requ irement for impo r ts of most noncap i tal goods was f u r t h er reduced to 90 days (Exchange Reso lu t ion No. 005-79-EF/90). April 4. Pe ruv ian residents and firms servicing the tou r i st sector were authorized, upon registration at the 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Central Reserve Bank, to engage in foreign exchange operations (Exchange Resolution No. 006-79-EF/90). April 19. Exchange Resolution No. 008-79-EF/90 enlarged the list of currencies in which exchange market transactions could be conducted. The ten currencies permitted for foreign trade transactions were Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In addition, other operations could be conducted also in Aus tr ian schillings, Canad ian dollars, Norwegian k rone r, Swedish kroner, and Venezuelan bolivares. April 19. The indicative foreign exchange allowances for travel abroad for tourism and business, as well as for the education and ma in tenance of Peruvian s tuden ts abroad, were doubled. Banks were authorized to ma in- ta in daily overbought positions of up to US$100,000. May 2. The m in imum f inanc ing requirements were liberalized. For imports of most noncap i tal goods and capital goods valued at up to US$50,000 the requ irement was set at 90 days. Exempted from the requirement were ( 1) downpaymen ts of up to 30 per cent on imports of capital goods; (2) imports of food and pharma- ceutical products; and (3) imports va lued at US$20,000 a shipment and up to US$200,000 an importer a year. The m in imum f in an c ing requirements for the rema in ing portion of imports of capital goods were changed to US$50,001-750,000, one fea r; US$750,001-3,000,000, two years; US$3,000,001-6,000,000, three years; US$6,000,001-10,000,000, four years; and above US$10,000,000, consultation w i th the Central Reserve Bank was required (Exchange Resolution No. 009-79-EF/98). May 15. Supreme Resolution No. 056-79-ICTI/ CO-CE established a comprehensive list of prohibited exports, export monopolies, and exports subject to prior authorization and /or export quotas. Eleven categories of products (m inera ls; petroleum; iron and steel; fish meal and oils; coffee; cotton; tobacco; salt; suga r; port- land cement; and precious stones and pea r ls) could be exported only by specified enterprises. May 16. Decree-Law No. 22545 exempted certain imports originating in the Andean Pact coun t r ies from the payment of import duties. May 24. Exchange Reso lu t ion No. 011-79-EF/90 authorized financial enterprises to accept foreign cur- rency deposits of up to 360 days from Pe ruv ian resi- dents. Export proceeds or proceeds of export pre- financing could not be used to open or add to such accounts. May 29. Supreme Resolution No. 068-79-ICTI/ CO-CE added some 580 nomenclature items to the List of Permitted Imports. May 31. Supreme Resolution No. 075-79-ICTI/ CO-CE added some 35 nomenc la ture items to the List of Permitted Imports. 318 June 1. The m in imum financing requirement for impor ts of most noncap i tal goods was reduced to 60 days (Exchange Reso lu t ion No. 013-79-EF/90). June 1. Exchange Resolution No. 014-79-EF/90 liberalized the rules governing sales of exchange for insu rance and reinsurance contracts abroad. June 5. Supreme Resolution No. 080-79-ICTI/ CO-CE added some 20 nomenc la tu re items to the List of Permitted Imports. June 21. Advance paymen ts were permitted for all imports of noncapital goods effected prior to June 30, 1979 (Exchange Resolution No. 016-79-EF/90). June 21. The ind ica t ive foreign exchange allowances for travel abroad and students' and fam i ly remittances were approximately doubled. The limit on a bank's da i ly overbought position was raised to US$500,000. July 2. All m i n im um foreign financing requirements were l i f ted (Exchange Resolution No. 015-79-EF/90). July 2. A 10 per cent noninterest-bearing cash deposit requ i rement in local currency was applied to new ex te rnal bo r row ing or loan renewals. Borrowing by the pub l ic sector and the Banco Agrario, as well as financing of impo r ts of capital goods, central bank swap operations, and all import financing with ma tu r i- ties of up to 90 days, were exempted f rom the deposit requ i rement (Exchange Resolution No. 018-79-EF/90). July 6. Exchange Resolution No. 019-79-EF/90 sub- jected ex ternal financing of imports of food and ferti- lizers effected by public sector enterprises to the 10 per cent deposit requ i rement on ly for the period by which the term of the credits exceeded 180 days f rom the date of shipment. July 30. Decree-Law No. 22619 established the legal f r am ewo rk for a reform of the Peruvian customs ta r i f f. A single, un i fo rm customs tar iff would be established consolidating the existing ta r i f f, other import fees, and w ide - rang ing exemptions and ta r i ff reductions. The new ta r i ff would be effective 60 days from its publication by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance. The fo l low ing taxes would, however, continue to be levied in addition to the new customs duties: ( 1) the temporary import du ty of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports estab- lished by Decree-Law No. 22173 of May 9, 1978 and extended by Decree-Law No. 22376 of December 5, 1978; (2) the 10 per cent tax on ma r i t ime f re ight charges under Decree-Law No. 22448 of February 13, 1979; ( 3) the add i t ional import tax of 1 per cent of c .i .f. va lue established by Decree-Law No. 22342 of November 21, 1978; (4) other taxes within the pur- view of the customs authorities. Imported inputs des- tined specifically for the pharmaceutical indus t ry would be subject only to a customs duty of 10 per cent ad valorem, unless individual items qua l ify for a lower du ty in the new customs ta r i f f. Existing specific duties would be replaced by their ad valorem equivalents. Specified import duty exemptions previously authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution would lapse from the date of entry into force of the new customs ta r i f f, and all other customs du ty exemp- tions would lapse on January 1, 1980, unless specifically authorized. However, importers of goods imported prior to December 3 1 , 1 9 79 would have the option to pay the customs duties applicable under the new ta r i ff or under existing legislation ( inc lud ing exemp t ions), provided the goods were included in the List of Permitted Imports and /or were excluded from the List of Prohibited Imports. August 1. The validity of foreign exchange certificates was extended from three days to ten days f rom the date of surrender of export proceeds. The l im it on a bank's daily overbought position was raised to US$3 m i l l ion (Exchange Resolution No. 020-79-EF/90). August 7. Soybean oil and other specified vege- table oils and fa ts were added to the list of products subject to export restrictions (Supreme Reso lu t ion No. 111-79-ICTI/CO-CE). August 9. The proportion of export proceeds for which the Central Reserve Bank would issue fore ign exchange certificates was raised f rom 55 per cent to 90 per cent. In addition, exporters became entitled to use foreign certificates to make deposits at the Central Reserve Bank denominated in U.S. dollars at terms of 30, 60, or 90 days at an interest rate of 0.5 per cent, 0.75 per cent, or 1.0 per cent, respectively, over the New York prime rate (Exchange Resolution No. 021-79-EF/90). August 14. Supreme Decree No. 116-79-EF approved the new customs tariff which would become effective 60 calendar days following its publication by the Min- istry of Economy and Finance. August 15. Importers with an annu al turnover of up to S/. 10 billion were authorized to repay in advance PERU of due dates any ou ts tand ing financial liabilities in respect of imports of capital goods (Exchange Reso- lu t ion No. 022-79-EF/90). August 15. The deposit requirement on capital inflows was raised to 15 per cent (Exchange Resolution No. 023-79-EF/90). August 17. Supreme Decree No. 117-79-EF enlarged the list of products exempted f rom the 10 per cent ad valorem import tax and the 1 per cent ad valorem import tax and integrated these taxes into the new customs ta r i f f. October 16. Supreme Resolution No. 148-79-ICTI/ IND/CO-SE added some 800 nomenclature items to the List of Permitted Imports. October 18. Importers with an annual tu rnover of up to S/. 10 billion were authorized to make advance paymen ts for all types of imports (Exchange Resolution No. 024-79-EF/90). November 12. Supreme Resolution No. 163-79 ICTI/CO-CE added some 325 nomenc la tu re items to the List of Permitted Imports. November 21. Supreme Resolution No. 165-79 ICTI/CO-CE added some 35 nomenclature items to the List of Permitted Imports. December 4. Supreme Resolution No. 173-79 ICTI/CO-CE abolished the List of Imports Prohibited u n t il December 31, 1980, adding these, as well as all but a few previously excluded items, to the List of Permitted Imports. As a result of this measure, only some 10 nomenclature items remained subject to import prohibitions. December 31. Supreme Resolution No. 425-79-EF- 11 -D established a consolidated list of import duty exemptions that would rema in applicable under the new customs ta r i f f. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of the Ph i l ipp in es is the P h i l i p p i ne Peso. The au tho r i t ies of the P h i l i p p i n es do not m a i n t a in ma r- g ins in respect of exchange transac t ions, and exchange rates are de term ined largely on the basis of demand and supp ly in the exchange ma rke t. However, the au tho r i t ies in tervene when necessary in order to m a i n t a in orderly conditions in the exchange market and other policy objectives in the m ed ium term. The Bankers' Association establishes da i ly a "guiding rate"; on December 31, 1979 this rate was P 7.4150 per US$1. The b u y i ng and selling rates of the Cen tral Bank of the Ph i l ipp ines for the U.S. do l lar, the i n t e r v e n t i on cu r r en cy and the sole currency quoted, on the same date were P 7.3779 and P 7.4706, respectively, per US$1. In spot t ransac t ions of less t h an US$100,000 w i th t h e ir cus tomers, com- merc ial b anks are requ ired by the Association to observe certain marg ins. The m a x im um and m i n im um spot buy ing rates are 0.50 per cent and 1 per cen t, respec- t ive ly, below the g u i d i ng rate. The m i n i m um and m a x i- mum spot se l l ing rates are 0.75 per cent and 1.25 per cent, respectively, above the g u i d i ng rate. For t rans- actions in excess of US$100,000, the m a r g i ns are deter- mined compe t i t ive ly. The C en t r al Bank is not governed by the Association's t r ad ing ru les in m a k i ng i ts own purchases and sales of fore ign exchange. I n t e r b a nk trad ing takes place at the Foreign Exchange T rad ing Center ( FOREX ), where the Cen tral Bank f rom t ime to t ime acts as a buyer or as a supp l ie r. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange regu la t ions are adm in is te red by the Cen t ral Bank on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Mone tary Board. Certain new fore ign direct or port- fo l io inves tmen ts in the P h i l i p p i n es r equ i re the p r ior approval of the Board of Inve s tmen ts (BO I ). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of cu r rency requ i remen ts for ou tgo ing paymen ts, but a ll exchange proceeds f r om exports and inv is ib les must be ob ta ined in prescribed currencies.1 Most payments and transfers to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denom ina ted in pesos may be opened in the names of nonres iden ts, whe ther i n d i v i d u al or corporate, w i thout the pr ior app roval of the Cen tral Bank. Non res ident accounts may be credited on ly 1 A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Belgian f r a n c s, C a n a d i an do l la rs, deu tsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Hong Kong do l lars, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese yen, N e th e r l ands gu i lde rs, pounds s t e r l ing, S ingapore do l la rs, Swiss f r an c s, a/id U.S. dollars. 320 w i th the proceeds f rom inwa rd remittances of foreign exchange or conver t ib le fo re ign currencies and with peso income f rom, or peso proceeds of, conversion of proper t ies ( real or pe rsona l) located in the Philippines and b e long ing to non res iden ts. Nonresident accounts may be f ree ly debited for peso withdrawals. With- d rawa ls f r om non res ident accounts for t rans fer abroad are subject to i n d i v i d u al app l ica t ion w i th suppor t ing evidence, and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Subject to au tho r iza t ion, both residents and nonresi- den ts may m a i n t a in fore ign cu r rency accounts w i th au tho r ized agent b anks in the Ph i l ipp in es (see section on Proceeds f rom Inv i s ib le s, b e low ). Imports and Import Payments Impor ts from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- h ib i ted. Impor ts of cer ta in commodities are prohibited on grounds of hea l th, na t ional we l fa re, and security, and impo r ts of ce r ta in a g r i c u l t u r al commodities are p roh ib i ted for protective purposes. Sales of fo re ign exchange for impor ts of specified commodities are sub- ject to prior approval of the Central Bank .2-3 Such approval is gran ted on a case-by-case basis for com- modities classified under three categories of consumer goods (unc lass i f ied, sem iunc lass if ied, and nonessen t ia l) or for comp le te ly knocked-down parts for automobile assembly p lan t s. Payments for impor ts of certain other commodities (whea t, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are pe rm i t ted on ly if they are financed through certain o f f ic ial credit arrangemen ts. Any impor ta t ion of p lan t, mach ine ry, equ ipmen t, and spare parts under deferred p a ym e n ts a r rangemen ts w i th ma tu r i ty periods longer than 360 days is subject to pr ior approval by the Central B ank. If p aym ent terms are cash or w i th in 360 days, pr ior app roval by the Cen tral Bank is necessary for im p o r t a t i on by any s ing le impor ter of nonag r icu l tu ral m a c h i n e ry and equ ipment w i th an aggregate value in excess of US$50,000 w i t h in a ca lendar mon th, w i th the exception of certified export-oriented firms and other impo r te rs who have ob ta ined prescribed cer t if ica t ion f r om the BOI. ^ Trade w i th any of the state t r ad ing coun tr ies must be effected through the Ph i l ipp ine International Trading Corporation. As a method of paymen t, commodities may be impo r ted against letters of credit, on a document aga inst J A u t h o r i z ed agent banks have been ins truc ted not to accept applica- t ions for l e t t e rs of credit or fo re ign exchange in respect of specified t e x t i le p roduc ts th at are subject to a mo r a to r ium. ! C e n t r al Bank approval is r equ i r ed for paymen ts for m a ny impo r ts, i n c l u d i ng c e r t a in syn th e t ic f ibers; ce r ta in syn th e t ic y a rn s; a ll t e x t i le m a c h i n e ry and e q u i pm e n t; beef; ships and appu r tenances t h e r e t o; sod ium cy an id e; ex c av a t ing m a ch in e ry; concrete m i x e rs and pave rs; wagons, t r a i l e r s, and car ts; ce r ta in mo tor vehicles and t rac to rs; and steel b i l le ts, ingots, hot-rolled coils and sheets, and o ther steel p roduc ts l is ted u n d er Commodity. G r o up 681. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution acceptance ( D / A) basis, or under open account ( O / A) arrangements. The use of the D/A and O/A pro- cedures is conf ined m a i n ly to firms w i th a history of impo r t ing under these arrangemen ts prior to Feb- rua ry 21, 1970; to p roducer firms established a f t er that date and expressly au thor ized by the Mone tary Board to impo rt under these a r rangemen ts; to producer firms that are export or ien ted, are registered w i th the BOI, or are f ranch ised u t i l i ty concerns; and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. The use of these procedures by producer firms n o rm a l ly is restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Unless a r rangemen ts are made for such terms of credit, imports in excess of US$100 (US$500 for pub l ica t ions) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of sh ipmen t. Imports financed by the importer's own fo re ign exchange or not invo lv ing paymen ts from the Ph i l ipp ines are allowed, subject to prescribed conditions, and are exempt f rom the requ i rement of open ing letters of credit. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial in s t i tu t ion, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Cen tral Bank for arrears on its loan repayment com- mitments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import letters of credit w i thout the approval of the Central Bank, which w i ll allow the opening of letters of credit only a f ter a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Certain authorized agent banks, require 100 per cent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared w i th 25 per cent or 50 per cent in normal cases. There are separate regu la t ions for imports in to border regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all paymen ts to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. In principle, all other payments are permitted, without pr ior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amoun ts of more than US$100 are sub- stantiated by documen ta ry evidence. However, there are certain l im i ts established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational expenses, mainte- nance and expenses of dependents of residents wh i le abroad, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and film and other rentals (see be low ). Exchange for travel abroad is made available by author- ized agent banks, as follows: US$25 a day, up to a m ax imum of US$750 a trip ( for exporters an add i t ional representation allowance of US$500) for each person for business or professional travel; US$500 a year for each adu lt resident for nonbusiness travel to Africa, Nor th and South America, Aus t ra l ia, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, and New Zealand; and US$200 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to Guam, Hong Kong, Okinawa, or any other ne ighbor ing country. PHILIPPINES The f o l l ow i ng limits apply to exchange for edu- ca t ional expenses abroad for students undertaking degree courses at d u ly accredited colleges or universi- ties: for studies in the United States, US$250 a mon th for l i v i ng and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tu i t ion, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, and New Zea land, US$150 a month. Any scholarship allow- ances are deducted f rom these amoun ts. The fo l low ing l im i ts app ly for remittances to depend- en ts of res iden ts: US$250 a mon th for each dependent l i v i ng in the Un i ted States; US$200 a month for each dependent l i v i ng in Aus t ra l ia, Europe, Japan, or New Zea land; and US$100 a month for each dependent l i v i ng in other areas. The ma in tenance allowances for dependen ts are allowed only for close relatives under conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Rem i t tances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) acc ru ing to nonres iden ts out of net profits realized since J a n u a ry 1, 1973 are permitted in f u l l, provided that rem i t tances are not financed f rom domestic credit. Prof i ts earned and d iv idends declared before Janua ry 1, 1973 (wh ich had been un rem i t tab le for some t ime) may be rem i t ted provided that such rem i t tances are not financed by domestic borrowings. Remittances of roy- alties or rentals on patents, t radema rks, and copyrights are f ree ly permitted (net of taxes) for contracts regis- tered w i th the Central Bank, provided that the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commod i ty that is m anu f a c tu r ed locally under the roy- a l ty contract (2 per cent in the case of marke t ing ser- vice con t rac ts ), and that contracts do not exceed five- year terms and do not inc lude restrictions on the export of the product. Remittances of the producer's share of ea rn ings made on motion-picture films and rentals on television films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 per cent of net proceeds f rom films. Foreign exchange w i th in the above limits may be purchased f rom authorized agent banks, without prior approval of the Central Bank, for current payments for inv is ib les adm in is tra t ive ly w i thhe ld prior to Novem- ber 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on the ir mer i ts by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export f rom the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Cen tral Bank. Residents may take ou t, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonres ident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, less any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident trave lers require prior authorization f rom the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coin or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange d rawn in pesos. Citizens of the Philippines, 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES when traveling abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 1,000 for first-class ship or airplane tickets or P 600 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplo- matic staff and Philippine nationals making their first pilgrimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registra- tion of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, which are issued by the Central Bank ); reports of foreign sales of copra, coconut oil, and sugar-based commodities, however, are approved for registration only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar-based commodities requires prior clear- ance by the Department of Trade. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the pre- scribed currencies (see footnote 1) and unless collection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however^payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail t rans fer may be allowed. Pay- ments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged. Export proceeds must be received in a prescribed currency within 60 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank within 3 business days of receipt. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepayment. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for imports of machinery, raw materials, and other requirements. An export tax is levied on the f.o.b. value of major exports. The rate is 6 per cent for copra and centrifugal sugar; 4 per cent for gold, molasses, coconut oil, desic- cated coconut, iron ore and concentrates, chromite ore and concentrates, copra meal or cake, unmanufac tured abaca, unmanufactured tobacco, canned pineapples, bunker fuel oil, bananas, cement clinker, portland cement, and petroleum pitch and residues; and 2 per cent for copper ore and copper concentrates. However, 322 the export taxes on copper ore, copper concentrates, and cement are suspended. Certain traditional export commodities are subject to premium export duties; those on copper ore, copper concentrates, and cement are suspended. The Philippine Sugar Commission has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade with state trad- ing countries is handled through the Philippine Inter- national Trading Corporation. There are separate regu- lations for exports from border regions by barter traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be sold within three business days to an authorized agent bank. Philippine nationals employed abroad are permitted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts earnings must be transferred through Philip- pine diplomatic establishments. Under a foreign cur- rency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies by residents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender requirements, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pursuant to contractual obligations. Balances in such accounts are freely trans- ferable abroad. Philippine nationals working abroad are required to repatriate specified minimum shares of their foreign earnings, ranging from 30 per cent to 70 per cent. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic notes and coin and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coin. The P 1,500 "IMF- IBRD" gold coin and the "Ang Bangong Lipunan" are exempt from these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. All inward and outward capital movements, with the exception of certain bank- ing operations and certain transactions related to financ- ing of international trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applications for new inward foreign investments (in k ind or in cash), as well as new foreign borrowings are reviewed, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, to export-oriented industries, and to other (nonexport-oriented) industries not utilizing domestic credit resources. The law guarantees fu ll repatriation of cash investments made after March 15, 1973 in export-oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered with the BOI, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. As ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a m in imum, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repatriation. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos f rom domestic sources, provided they have a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 in h igh-pr ior i ty sectors, 55:45 in medium- priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Foreign direct cash investments made a f ter March 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except for investments in domestic com- mercial banks, which, if made a f ter March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule in (4) below. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash investments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash investments made af ter March 15, 1973, depending on the category of indus try where the investment is made, as follows: ( 1) investments in export-oriented indus- tries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in fu l l, but no annual ins ta l lment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports, are repatriable in three equal annual install- ments s tar t ing one year a f t er the l iqu id a t ion of the investment, but no annual installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earn ings in the preceding year; (3) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not u t i l iz ing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in four equal annual installments starting one year a f ter the l iqu ida t ion of the investment; and (4) for inves tmen ts in the rema in- ing industries, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 m i l l ion or less, five equal annual ins ta l lmen ts a f ter l iqu ida t ion; for amoun ts of US$0.25-0.5 million, seven equal annual installments a f ter liquidation; and for amoun ts of over US$0.5 m i l l ion, n ine equal annual ins ta l lmen ts a f ter liquidation. Dur ing the period between the date of the investment and repatriation, l iqu ida t ion proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in foreign currency deposits, in government securities, or in shares of stock in export-oriented indus tr ies regis- tered with the BOI or certified by the Central Bank. Without prior Central Bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit f rom abroad other than credit arising f rom normal in terna t ional trade t rans- actions. They may, however, accept deposits in n ine scheduled currencies4 from nonresidents of foreign nationality; such deposits are free ly repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt f rom the 35 per cent withholding tax. Eighteen domestic com- mercial banks and four local branches of foreign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded fore ign currency 4 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. PHILIPPINES deposit scheme; these foreign currency deposit un it banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow funds from in te rna t ional money markets for domestic on-lending. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad provided that repayment terms are within the l im i ts prescribed by the Central Bank. Maturities of long-term loans or repayment terms should be as fo l lows: ( 1) US$250,000 or less, three years; (2) over US$250,000 to US$500,000, five years; (3) over US$500,000 to US$3 m i l l ion, seven years; and (4) over US$3 m i l l ion, ten years. Firms whose products are c lear ly destined for export, as well as firms earning fore ign exchange and d u ly certified or registered in p r io r i ty areas w i th appropriate government agencies, may secure credits in excess of US$3 million with a m i n i m um repayment period of eight years. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 per cent above the pr ime rate of the l end ing coun t ry. App l ica t ions are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an indus t ry deemed to be overcrowded, or for firms that are in arrears w i th government financial institutions. Sales of fo re ign exchange for amor t iza t ion of loans are permitted in accordance w i th the terms of loan contracts approved by the Cen t ral Bank. The same agplies for loan con- tracts registered w i th the Cen tral Bank prior to Novem- ber 26, 1969. For those not f a l l ing under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of fore ign exchange for repayment of loans. Em ig ran ts may t rans fer up to US$5,000, subject to ver if ica t ion by the Central Bank. The rema in ing l iqu id assets may be w i thd rawn in five years beg inn ing one year from emigration. Ou twa rd inve s tment by resident persons, firms, or corpora t ions requires p r ior approval of the Central Bank th rough the Management of External Debt and Invest- ment Accounts Department. Except as otherwise spe- c i f ica l ly au tho r ized, resident persons, firms, or corpora- t ions may not en ter into any contract or transaction which may invo lve se t t lement in fore ign exchange, or invo lv ing any assets be long ing to them expressed in fore ign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to contracts or transactions invo lv ing assets w i t h in the Philippines belonging to a nonres ident person, firm, or corporation, and to their export or import. Detailed regulations are in force concern ing transac t ions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Twen ty-one fo re ign banks have been authorized to operate offshore b a n k i ng un i ts in the Philippines. These un i ts may engage in a wide range of foreign currency t ransac t ions with nonres iden ts and w i th other offshore units. All investors in enterprises registered w i th the BOI are gua ran teed the right to repatriate the ir investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES they are also gua ran teed freedom f rom exp rop r i a t ion and requ is i t ion. There are d i f f e r ent a r rangemen ts for "pioneer inves tmen ts '* and "preferred inves tmen ts"; the fo rmer are g ran ted ce r ta in incen t ives over and above those given to p re fe r red inves tmen ts. No rma l ly, en terpr ises owned or con t ro l led by fo r- eigners are pe rm i t ted to operate on ly in "pioneer a reas of inves tmen t ," and at least 60 per cent of the ou t s tand- ing vo t ing capital stock of registered en terpr ises in "preferred areas of inves tmen t" must be owned by Ph i l ipp ine nationals. Under the Foreign Inves tment Law of 1968, new en te rp r ises where i n v e s tm e nt by non- Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and wh ich are not covered by the Inves tment Incen t ives Act of 1967 must ob ta in prior au tho r i ty f rom the BOI in order to engage in any economic ac t iv i ty in the Ph i l ipp ines. If purchases of shares of common stock by fo re ign n a t i o n a ls wou ld reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 70 per cent, perm iss ion f rom the BOI must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the Gold Indu s t ry Assistance Ac t, irrespec t ive of whether th is gold is a by-product or the p r i n c i p al or only product of th e ir operations. The Central Bank purchases the en t i re o u t p ut of the 12 domestic p r ima ry gold producers. The p roduce rs are paid in Philippine pesos based on the latest London fixing price and the p r ev a i l ing Ph i l ipp ine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of o f f ic ial i n t e r n a t i o n al reserves. Sma ll gold panners are exempt f rom the scheme. Residents other than the mone ta ry authorities, au tho r ized gold dealers, and authorized indu s t r ial users are not a l lowed to p u r- chase gold abroad in any fo rm other than jewe lry. A gold gpin w i th a face va lue of P 1,000 has been issued, which is legal tender; ano ther gold coin va lued at P 1,500 was issued in connection w i th the 1976 A n n u al Mee t ing of the IMF and the IBRD in M a n i l a. These coins may be imported f ree ly by trave lers as well as resident physical or ju r id i c al persons. W i th this exception, imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry require licenses issued by the Cen- tral Bank; such licenses are not no rm a l ly gran ted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary au tho r i t ies and indu s t r ial users. Changes during 1979 February 2. General gu ide l ines were issued on the approval and registration of Ph i l ipp ine investments abroad. These specified that all new and add i t ional ou tward inves tmen ts by resident corporations, entities, or ind iv idu a ls would require pr ior approval of the Cen- t r al Bank through the Management of Ex ternal Debt and Inves tment Accounts Department (MED IAD ), and that the ir existing investments abroad should be regis- 324 tered w i th the Cen tral Bank through the MEDIAD (C i r c u l ar No. 652 ). February 12. The r equ i r em ent th at all applications for fore ign exchange for t ravel to Hong Kong be re fe r red to the Foreign Exchange Depa r tment of the Cen t ral Bank was revoked. February 19. The r equ i r em ent to subm it a traveler's latest income tax r e t u r n, or that of the person financing the t r i p, in support of an app l ica t ion to purchase fo r- e ign exchange for t ravel purposes was waived where the am o u nt invo lv ed did not exceed US$50 or its e q u i v a l e n t. March 5. It was announced that commercial banks, for purposes of red i scoun t ing th e ir export paper w i th the Cen tral B a n k, might avail themselves of a f u r t h er 50 per cent ce i l ing based on the ir ex is t ing basic redis- count ce i l ing — thu s, in effect inc reas ing export f inanc- ing for all commerc ial banks to 100 per cent of the ir basic rediscount l ines. However, such recourse would be allowed on ly where the commercial bank's basic red iscount ce i l ing and the add i t ional 50 per cent ceiling p rev ious ly au thor ized have been f u l ly u t i l ized (C ircu lar No. 658 ). March 15. Impo r ta t ion of unpressur ized, mu l t ieng ine a i r c r a ft w i th a passenger capacity of between 8 and 11 persons wou ld not be pe rm i t ted unless cer t if ied by the Ph i l ipp ine Aerospace Development Corporation as both necessary and not in conf l ict w i th i ts m a n u f a c t u r i ng p rog ram. March 19. The Belgian f r a n c, the Hong Kong do l lar, and the Singapore do l l ar were inc luded in the list of prescribed fo re ign currenc ies (C ircu lar No. 665). May 15. With the accession of the Ph i l ipp ines to the I n t e r n a t i o n al Cocoa Agreement of 1975, applications to impo rt and reports of fore ign sales covering exports of specified cocoa produc ts were to be supported by a cer t if ica te of impor ts or a certificate of exports, issued by the M i n i s t ry of Trade. July 6. Reserve requ i remen ts against ma rg inal deposits on all import letters of credit opened on or a f t er J u ly 9, 1979 were raised in accordance w i th a schedule by which they would reach 100 per cent by November 30, 1979 (C i rcu lar No. 683). July 11. Pres iden t ial Decree No. 1628 provided for a reduc t ion of t a r i ff rates on 41 t a r i ff l ines a f fec t ing the food processing indu s t ry. July 13. Revised guidelines on short-term foreign bo r row ing ( i n c l u d i ng domestic borrowing in foreign currenc ies) stated that ( 1) short-term loans f rom off- shore b ank ing u n i ts a n d / or other offshore sources to domestic borrowers, as we ll as all short-term fore ign loans f r om foreign cu r rency deposit units, should be referred to the Cen tral Bank for prior approval, except for no rmal in te rbank short-term transac t ions not exceed- ing 360 days; and (2) short-term foreign loans requ ir ing re fe r ral to the Central Bank would be approved only ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution if they were in tended to f in an ce the fo re ign exchange requ i remen ts of domestic borrowers (C i r cu l ar No. 685 ). July 27. It was announced th at on ly t rea su ry bonds and notes issued by the Na t ional Governmen t, w i th in te rest rates not exceed ing 4 per cent per a n n um, wou ld be eligible for requ i red reserves aga inst m a rg in al deposits on all import letters of cred i t. August 3. App l ica t ions for the impo r ta t ion of a ir- c ra ft equipped w i th reciprocating or p is ton d r iven eng ines and other s im i l ar a i rc ra ft fue led w i th av ia t ion f u el (avga s) requ i red c learance f r om the Emergency Petroleum Operations Board's Subcommittee on Avgas Fuel Allocation. October 9. Pres iden t ial Decree No. 1646 granted add i t ional incen t ives for export producers and exporters registered w i th BOI. These inc luded ra is ing the permis- sible deduction f rom taxab le incomes to 20 per cent of export sales, exemptions from payment of specified impo rt duties and taxes, and extension of the period for tax-free impo r ta t ion of cap i tal e q u i pm e nt f rom f ive to seven years. October 16. Several add i t ional measures to promo te exports were announced. Letter of Ins t ruc t ion No. 942 PHILIPPINES l ib e r a l i z ed and s imp l i f ied procedures for exporters to ava il themse lves of tax credits and d u ty drawbacks on impor ted commod i t ies used in export production. Execu- tive Order No. 565 created the Bonded Export Market- ing Board w i th the p r im a ry f u n c t i on of ex tend ing the benefits of custom bonded wa rehouses to a wider range of p roduc ts. The 4 per cent export d u ty on sh r imps and p r aw ns was abolished. October 19. A p p l i c a t i o ns for the impo r ta t ion of specified an im a ls and a n im al products required a v e t e r i n a ry q u a r a n t i ne c learance issued by the Bu reau of A n im al I n d u s t r y. November 16. The C en t r al Bank suspended the pu r- chase of I r a n i an r ial cu r rency notes tendered for sale by r e t u r n i ng F i l i p i no con tract workers. Purchases were resumed on December 10, 1979. November 19. The export tax and p r em ium duties on m ine ral produc ts were suspended (Execu t ive Order No. 568). December 18. Cen t ral Bank C i rcu lar No. 709 liberal- ized gu ide l ines on domestic borrowing by fore ign firms engaged in export-oriented activities 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 57, 7979; Exchange Rate System The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo, the exchange rate of which is adjusted at relatively short intervals in relation to a basket of currencies, weighted according to their importance in Portugal's international transactions in merchandise, tourism, and private trans- fers. Periodically the Bank of Portugal announces depre- ciation objectives for the effective exchange rate of the escudo. The rate of depreciation was initially set in May 1978 at 1.25 per cent but by December 1979 it had been lowered progressively to 0.75 per cent a month. On December 31, 1979 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Esc 46.698 and Esc 49.864, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies1 are quoted by the Bank of Portugal. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying and selling commissions but there is a tax of 0.3 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.0750 = HK$1. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can be made only through an authorized bank acting on a commis- sion basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized purposes, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on the use of these resources and, in certain circum- stances, may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. The net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks and their gross foreign exchange holdings are subject to ceilings. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Directorate- General of Foreign Commerce in the Ministry of Trade 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs; these rates are determined on the basis of U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. 326 and Tourism. This Directorate-General also administers trade controls; import and export licenses are issued by its Foreign Trade Division, or by other duly authorized executive departments. All imports valued at over Esc 5 million and all exports valued at over Esc 2.5 mil- lion are subject to prior authorization by the Foreign Trade Control Committee; this screening is intended only to prevent overinvoicing and underinvoicing. Almost all foreign trade transactions are subject to registration with the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. State agencies undertaking international trade trans- actions are required to use Portuguese vessels. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Greece and Turkey are settled on a monthly basis through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dollars. Export transactions with other coun- tries may be settled in the quoted currencies1 or in U.S. dollars. (Canadian dollars, F inn ish markkaa, Japanese yen, South African rand, and Spanish pesetas may only be used in transactions with the countries issuing the currency.) Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, the opening of which is subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Escudos are divided into ( 1) Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos, for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos, which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal for payments for trans- actions authorized in escudos concerning imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metro- politan Portugal and foreign countries and for transfers between such accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of over- drafts on the accounts described above requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Foreign Accounts in Escudos in the names of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has special clearing arrangements2 are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. Special accounts in escudos have been established to which must be credited those Portuguese banknotes that have been presented by foreign correspondents and are in excess of the amounts that may be credited to Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos. These accounts may be debited only for payments in escudos to resi- 2 Greece and Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dents, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Deposit accounts in escudos may be opened by Por- tuguese emigrants. Such accounts may be in the form of current accounts, accounts requiring advance notice of withdrawal, or time accounts. Without prior author- ization from the Bank of Portugal, deposit accounts may be credited only with remittances f rom abroad received through the bank ing system or in the form of an international postal order, the equivalent in escudos of external means of payment sold to credit institutions by emigrants, and interest due on such deposits. Deposit accounts may be debited without restrictions. Nonresidents may open time foreign accounts in eight foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad and with the related interest due and may be debited without restrictions. However, a nonresident wishing to use the funds on these accounts in Portugal is subject to the exchange regulations cur- rently in force. There are also provisions for resident accounts in foreign currencies. imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific conditions, ma in ly for rea- sons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial fraud. Any physical or jur id ical entity may be an importer; importers must have an import entitle- ment and must pay income taxes regularly. Prior regis- tration (in the form of a "bulletin") is required for all imports valued at over Esc 5,000. Almost all imports f rom all sources are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license (but for imports valued at over Esc 5 million prior authorization must be obtained from the Foreign Trade Control Committee). The validity of the bulletin is 3 months for customs clearance purposes, and 12 mon ths from the date of customs clearance for settlement pur- poses. Personal baggage and imports of merchandise, the value of which does not exceed Esc 5,000, do not require a bulletin, except when forming part of an order with a total value exceeding Esc 5,000 and provided they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Payments beyond one year after customs clearance require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Imports of certain items, such as unassembled auto- mobiles, household appliances, and bananas, are subject to quota limitations in value terms. Goods not on the negative list may be imported freely f rom most coun- tries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foodstuffs and other agricultural prod- ucts, certain natural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the list PORTUGAL are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods that would be liberalized if imported from other GATT countries, are subject to ind iv idual authorization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authorization. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual author- izations; imports from some Eastern European countries are generally licensed in accordance with bilateral trad- ing arrangements. There are a few bilateral quotas for specified agricul- t u r al imports from certain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized industrial products, except for certain protected steel products and automobiles, are free of quantitative restriction when originating in EFTA or EC countries. Special legislation provides that auto- mobiles must be assembled in Portugal, and the assembly is subject to the use of certain minimum percentages of domestic components. However, imports of passenger automobiles of EFTA origin are allowed up to 150 units a year for each producer, while those of non-EFTA or ig in are allowed up to 15 units a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, up to 2 per cent of the number of passenger automobiles of the same make that were assembled in Portugal in the preceding year. Imports of some makes of EC origin are allowed up to 150 un i ts a year for each producer. Imports of commercial vehicles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Domestic credit financing is restricted for certain impo r ts and foreign financing is required for certain imports. M in imum proportions of foreign financing and m i n im um repayment terms are prescribed by the Bank of Portugal. Many imports are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 10 per cent or 60 per cent of the customs value, irrespective of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invisibles must be made through authorized banks and are gen- erally free of quantitative restrictions, but for most transactions ceilings are specified for the amounts of fore ign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not maintain special clearing arrangements, the author- ized banks may grant foreign exchange up to the equiv- alent of Esc 30,000 a transaction for most types of invisibles, including income on imported capital, and the licensing centers (established in continental Portugal and the Azores) of those banks may grant up to the equivalent of Esc 250,000, the individual ceilings vary- ing according to the type of operation. For tourism and other private travel they may grant to persons 18 years 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL of age or over the equivalent of Esc 20,000 a person a year, Esc 15,000 for persons between 12 and 18, and Esc 10,000 for children under 12; in addition, tourists may take out of the country Esc 5,000 in local currency for each trip. The export of larger amounts of domestic or foreign currency requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Code, individual remittances of profits and dividends may be subject to phasing for a period of up to one year, depending on the prevailing balance of payments situ- ation. Phased amounts awaiting remittance may be deposited with domestic banks in accounts denominated in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 5,000. Exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bu l le t in s ). Exports valued at over Esc 2.5 million require prior authoriza- tion by the Foreign Trade Control Committee. Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the pri- mary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the pre- scription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few commodities is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Personal baggage and exports of merchandise, the value of which does not exceed Esc 5,000, do not require a bulletin, provided they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Re-exports of merchandise are exempt from prior regis- tration, regardless of their value. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank the *lotal amount of the export proceeds, within the period and in the foreign currency stipulated in the export bu l le t in; the period for repatriation of export proceeds is, as a rule, fixed at four months from the date of customs clearance. The Bank of Portugal may authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges from the total amount subject to surrender. Proceeds from invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments in foreign currency for invisibles from residents of coun- tries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Such receipts require authoriza- tion by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction once the proposed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely up to Esc 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in banknotes, coin, and checks denominated in foreign cur- rency for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coin by nonresidents for other purposes require author- 328 ization by the Bank of Portugal, and the re-export by nonresident travelers of foreign currency in excess of Esc 20,000 requires proof of prior importation of an equal or larger amount. Re turn ing residents may bring in up to Esc 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes and coin. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign banknotes or coin for settlement of external transactions. Capital All private capital transactions between Portugal and foreign countries are subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal, and for transactions exceeding Esc 50 million and with a maturity of more than one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance also is required. Foreign direct investments in Portugal are authorized on the basis of the Foreign Investment Code. Such investments are permitted in all sectors except those which, under the general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. An Exchange Risk Insurance Fund provides exchange risk insurance against losses caused by exchange rate movements in excess of 3 per cent on approved foreign borrowing. The transfer abroad of the proceeds from the liqui- dation of foreign investments is authorized after five years, but for large amounts the Bank of Portugal may require that the transfer be phased over a period not exceeding five years. In such cases, exchange risk guar- antees may be provided. Foreign loans and their repay- ments are authorized as necessary. Capital movements and transfers of assets are subject to ceilings (up to which they are authorized automat- ically), according to Portugal's reservations to the OECD code of liberalization of capital movements. For larger amounts authorizations may be granted on the merits of each case. Direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents are prohibited. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase, sale, import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao mone- tary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commis- sioner for Economy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Changes during 1979 January 26. A three-year agreement with the United Kingdom was announced for voluntary restraint on Portuguese exports of textiles. March 31. The global quotas on imports of certain consumer goods during the 12-month period to March 31, 1980 were increased in terms of escudos. Quota restrictions on coffee and plastic products were lifted. April 1. The monthly rate of depreciation of the escudo was reduced from 1.25 per cent to 1 per cent. May 3. By Decree No. 109/79 several import items were exempted from the import surcharge and instead were made subject to basic import tariffs. May 3. By Decree No. 110/79 the 20 per cent import surcharge was reduced to 10 per cent, effective April 1, 1979. June 1. The monthly rate of devaluation of the escudo was reduced from 1 per cent to 0.75 per cent. July 27. Imports of coffee were made subject to an additional import duty of Esc 90 a kilogram (Decree No. 253 /79). 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 = SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 per cent around this rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were QR 3.7035 and QR 3.7065, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' exchange rates for trans- actions in U.S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. Although spreads outside these rates may vary according to the customer and the size of the transaction, the max imum spread permitted by the Monetary Agency is QR 0.87. On December 31, 1979 the commercial banks' maximum permitted buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6948 and QR 3.7152, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. & Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited, and alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammu- nition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on pay- ments for permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are proh ib i ted. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of f ree ly, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica. Otherwise, there are no l im i ta t ions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. For- eign participation in certain industrial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar nationals control at least 51 per cent of the shares. For major industrial projects it is government policy to assume 70 per cent ownership. Gold The mone tary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, inc lud ing pr iva te persons, may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions invo lv ing Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1979 May 5. The arrangement establishing fixed exchange rates for the currencies of Qatar, Bahra in, and the United A rab Emirates in terms of the U.S. dollar was suspended following the decision by Qatar to revalue its currency against the U.S. dollar. This change was followed by a series of revaluations of the Qatar riyal against the U.S. dollar. June 29. Imports of pig meat products and certain semialcoholic drinks were banned. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The official rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the National Bank of Romania is lei 4.47 per US$1, and the official rate for the U.S.S.R. ruble is lei 6.67 per rub 1. The National Bank quotes rates for 15 other currencies defined as "freely convertible,"1 and for the Egyptian pound, the Finnish markka, the Greek drachma, the Israel pound, the Pakistan rupee, the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, the Turkish lira, and the Yugoslav dinar, based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned. For currencies of countries other than members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) 2 and Albania and North Korea, exchange rates are based on the ratio between the currency concerned and the leu through the official rate against a third currency. With minor excep- tions, the official exchange rates are used for planning and accounting purposes only. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of capital transactions, nontrade exchange transactions with coun- tries other than the CMEA countries, Albania, and North Korea are carried out at the official rate plus a premium of 168.46 per cent, resulting in a rate of lei 12 per US$1. The purchase or sale of foreign exchange at this rate for private use is subject to a bank charge of 1 per cent. Capital transactions with countries other than the CMEA countries, Albania, and North Korea are settled at lei 18 per US$1. For ind iv idual travel to nonsocialist countries and for certain other expenditures abroad, such as personal subscriptions to periodicals and legal penalties, the rate is lei 24 per US$1. For nontrade transactions with some socialist countries, special exchange rates are established by multilateral or bilateral agreement. Some trade transactions are subject to a price equali- zation system. Excluded from this system are imports of consumer goods, machinery, and equipment ( inc lud ing complex equipment), assemblies and subassemblies, and spare parts for investment projects, the domestic prices of which are determined by converting the foreign price into lei at lei 18 per US$1, to which customs duties are added. For all other imports (basic raw materials and other materials and assemblies, sub- assemblies, and spare parts for production) and for all exports, a price equalization system applies. Trade transactions with CMEA countries and other socialist 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. countries, other than Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of China, are settled in transferable rubles at an accounting rate of lei 18 per rub 1. For nontrade transactions with socialist countries (except Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of China) exchange rates are established by special agreements; for transactions with the U.S.S.R. this rate is lei 8.30 per rub 1. An accounting rate of lei 18 per US$1 is used for the payment and repayment of foreign loans taken up or granted by the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, other official bodies, and Romanian enterprises. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by authorized industrial centrals, producing enterprises, and foreign trade enter- prises. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations the provisions of existing trade agreements are taken into account. Foreign currency proceeds from exports are sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from that bank. Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usua l ly made in a convertible currency. Certain com- mercial settlements with Turkey are made in U.S. dollars under a credit agreement. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or w i th the National Bank. These accounts are of three k ind s: A-Accounts are maintained in convertible cur- rency or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, gold, or other precious metals (except silver); B-Accounts are maintained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received f rom the conversion of such currencies. Trans- actions in any individual B-Account may be effected 3 The countries with which bilateral payments arrangements were in force as of December 31, 1979 were Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ecuador, Finland, Ghana, Greece, India, Iran, North Korea, Lebanon, and Viet Nam. Settle- ments with Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, and U.S.S.R. take place through the multilateral payments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Certain settlements with Singapore also take place through special accounts. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA in only one such currency. C-Accounts are m a in t a in ed in lei received f rom legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for paymen ts abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A, B, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all paymen ts abroad in the currencies f rom which the funds were derived and for payments w i th in Roman ia. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any fu r th er authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei w i th the Savings and Consignment Bank. The Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade may accept f rom nonresident customers t ime deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in international markets. Romanian citizens, inc lud ing Roman ians wo rk ing abroad who t rans fer the ir savings to Roman ia, may open foreign currency accounts w i th the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade or the Na t ional Bank. The deposits may be used for payments in foreign currency, at home or abroad, or for exchange in to lei at the off ic ial rate plus p r em ium (lei 12 per US$1 ). The entire amount of fore ign exchange received f rom abroad for special purposes for the benefit of R om a n i an c i t i- zens (such as the building or purchas ing of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign cur- rency, travel abroad, and other purposes) may be used by the recipients. In the case of certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as inheritances, donations, assistance, or f am i ly ma in tenance, a propor- t ion may be deposited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be converted in to lei at the off ic ial rate plus prem ium. Imports and Exports The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic un i t s, produc t ion enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long- term needs. The foreign trade plan specifies only a l im i ted number of goods considered of par t icu lar importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The total planned trade does not separate importer or exporter countries but it does distinguish between the clearing area and the convertible cur- rency area, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and In terna t ional Economic Cooperation, for each commodity or group of commodities. The authoriza- tions are not restrictive or d iscr im ina tory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade un i ts, for all types of goods, regardless of origin. The M in i s t ry may take measures to curb imports with a view to equilibrat- ing the balance of payments, for the protection of public 332 health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accordance w i th the provisions of the GATT. As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual import- ing enterprises as a l ump sum or for a single kind of product. The authorization stipulates whether import paymen ts are to be made in convertible currency or und er bilateral payments arrangements, and in the latter case the coun t ry also is specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade. Imports for investment in complex installations (assemblies, subassemblies, machinery, equipment, and spare pa r ts) are delivered to the buy ing un i ts at domestic prices wh ich are equal to the customs value (calculated by mu l t ip ly ing the external price by lei 18 per U.S. do l l a r) p lus customs duties. Imports of consumer goods are delivered to the commercial purchasing units at retail prices less the commercial discount. The difference between prices so derived and prices calculated on the basis of customs value plus customs duties and, in some cases, the turnover tax, are recorded as a profit for the impo r t ing foreign trade un i t. Imports are subject to customs duties, although duties are not applied to 121 ta r i ff positions and subpositions. Customs du t ies are temporar i ly not being levied on imports of raw materials, assemblies, subassemblies, and spare parts for production, repair, and maintenance, to ta l ing about 500 ta r i ff positions and subpositions. The customs ta r i ff is nond isc r im ina to ry. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with foreign trade transactions require general or individual au thor iza t ion given by either the Ministry of Finance or the appropr ia te m in is t ry. For most categories of pay- men ts in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available au toma t ica l ly once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside socialist countries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a t r ip for each adult for one trip a year. In add i t ion, tourist agencies may organize group or ind iv idual trips payable in lei. Receipts from trans- actions in invisibles must be sold to the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought f rom the same bank. Receipts in foreign currencies f rom travelers are converted at lei 12 per US$1. Travelers with permanent residence in nonsocialist countries must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" currencies)4 du r ing their stay in Romania. This requirement does not apply to ( a) holders of diplomatic and service pass- 4 The acceptable currencies, in add i t ion to the U.S. dollar, are Aus tra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Ind ian rupees, Israel pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Turk ish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ports and the ir fam i l ies; (b) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Roman ia and the ir fam i l ies; (c) persons s tudy ing in Roman ia and the ir spouses; (d) permanent foreign personnel of for- eign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania ( inc lud ing jo int ven tu res) and the ir families; (e) guests of socialist un i ts and of other ju r id ical persons in Romania, as well as of in te rna t ional organ iza t ions hav- ing the ir headquarters in Roman ia; ( f) ch i ld ren under 14; (g) teachers v is i t ing Roman ia under agreements for cu l tura l, technical, and scientific cooperation and their families; (h) persons who can be shown to have made payments for tourist services; (i) foreign personnel in assembly works or providing technical assistance in Romania and their families; (j) persons of Romanian origin having foreign citizenship or who are stateless; (k) Romanian citizens possessing a valid Romanian passport who are domiciled abroad; (1) persons resident abroad without a valid Romanian passport, but who have not renounced their Romanian citizenship; and (m) parents, spouses, and children of persons in cate- gories ( j ) - ( l ). Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Romanian citizens legally holding foreign currencies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and export of Romanian notes and coin by travelers are prohibited. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Out- ROMANIA ward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not no rma l ly permitted. For certain estab- lished categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agree- ments have been concluded w i th a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establish- ment of jo int ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in jo int ventures in Romania, up to 49 per cent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Foreign Trade Law and implementing decrees guarantee the repatriation in foreign currency of the capital, and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agreement the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Gold The Na t ional Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in tu rn, authorizes certain ju r id ical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. The owner- ship by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cu l tural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1979 March 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Cyprus was terminated. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. do l lar at RF 92.84 = US$1. The o f f ic ial b u y i ng and s e l l i ng rates a re R F 9 1 . 91 and RF 93.77, respectively, per US$1. For c e r t a in other currencies l that are o f f i c i a l ly quo ted, the d a i ly m idd le rates are derived f rom the fixed rate w i th the do l lar and the exchange rate between the do l lar and the cu r- rency in ques t ion two business days ea r l ie r, calculated as the cross rate between the do l lar va lue of the SDR and the va lue of the SDR in the n a t ion al ma rket of the currency concerned. The average rate for the B u r u n di f ranc, wh ich also is o f f ic ia l ly quoted, is the ratio be- tween the fixed rate for the U.S. do l lar in K iga li and the fixed rate for the U.S. do l lar in B u j um b u r a. The o f f i c i a l ly quoted rates for the za i re and for the Kenya sh i l l ing, the Tanzan ia sh i l l ing, and the Uganda sh i l l ing are derived from the do l lar va lue of the SDR two days earlier and the fixed re la t ionsh ip of these currenc ies to the SDR. The b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for all cu r ren- cies are set 1 per cent below and 1 per cent above the m idd le rate, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange t ransac t ions and for- eign trade is vested in the Na t ional Bank of Rwanda; au tho r i ty to carry out some of these transac t ions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and fore ign trade policy are, in p r inc ip le, de term ined by the General Foreign Exchange and L icens ing Commit- tee, which comprises the M in i s t er of F inance, the Gov- e rnor of the Na t ional Bank, and five o ther members. However, th is Committee is inoperative. Prescription of Currency The National Bank has concluded agreements with the central banks of ne ighbo r ing countries and Kenya, under wh ich settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency. Balances on such accounts are periodically t rans fe rab le. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the National Bank, which, in pr inc ip le, is the currency of the country of o r ig in. Payments f rom any coun t ry may be received in Be lg ian f rancs, Cana- d ian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign paymen ts, except in border trade, are generally made by bank t r a n s f e r; the Na- t ional Bank may, however, au tho r ize other means of payment such as checks or te legraph ic transfers. Exchange transac t ions w i th Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. 1 Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, deu tsche m a r k, French f rancs, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, pounds s te r l ing, and Swiss francs. 334 Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts f rom Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohib- i ted. Impo r ts of a few types of goods, such as narcotics, explosives, and weapons are proh ib i ted f rom all sources for reasons of p u b l ic policy. All impor ts va lued at over RF 100,000 c. & f. K ig a li requ ire licenses, as do those v a lu ed at less th an RF 100,000 c. & f. K iga l i, if payment is requ i red in fo re ign exchange. No license is required for the impo rt of merchand ise valued at or below RF 100,000 c. & f. K i g a l i, when paid for in Rwanda f rancs. Imports of household and personal effects of nonres iden ts and res ident expa t r ia tes are also exempt. The N a t ion al Bank levies a fee of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue for the vali- da t ion of impo rt licenses. Before orders are placed, appli- cations for impo rt licenses mu st be subm i t ted to the Na- t ional B a nk th rough an authorized bank. The approval of an impo rt license app l ica t ion constitutes an au tho r iza t ion to ob ta in the requ ired foreign exchange. The Na t ional Bank gran ts global impo rt licenses for ce r ta in essential commod i t ies and for l im i ted amounts to i n d i v i d u al f irms in order to ensure the ir con t inuous operation; these are va l id for three mon ths. Licenses are exam ined at the N a t ion al Bank to avoid ove r invo ic ing. Any impo r ter app ly ing for a license must do so in w r i t i n g, and con f i rm that when p ay ing for the imports he w i ll not ove r run the no rmal regu la t ion credit allow- ance. P r ior to J u ne 30 of each year, all importers must prov ide the fo re ign exchange au tho r i t ies w i th (1) bal- ance sheets and income statements for the past three years, and (2) a declaration of the amount of taxes paid d u r i ng each of these years, w i th suppo r t ing documents. Im p o r t i ng au tomob i le dealers must be registered as such by the Na t ional Bank. Impor ts of med ium-s ized and large automobiles, but not of small automobiles or four- wheel d r ive vehicles, require a 100 per cent deposit in Rwanda f ranc s. The impor t ing dealer must deposit an amount equ iva lent to the c.i.f. K iga li value af ter cus- toms clearance for vehicles over 11 horsepower. If the vehicle is of less than 11 horsepower and the value after customs clearance is less than RF 1.8 m i l l ion no such deposit need be made. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to cu r rency of payment or permitted o r ig in or place of sh ipmen t, but control is exercised to ensure that paymen ts are made to the supp l ier or shipper. Imports whose f.o.b. va lue on the pro forma invoice is greater th an RF 1.5 m i l l i on are inspected by the General Su- pe r in tendence Company of Geneva for qua l i ty and qu an t i ty in the coun try of or ig in 2 pr ior to shipment 2 Except for impo r ts f rom A f g h a n i s t a n, A lb an i a, B u r u n d i, Cameroon, Cen t ral A f r i c an Republic, Chad, People's Republic of China, Comoros, D j ibou t i, Gabon, Gu inea, I raq, No r th Korea, Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, Liberia, Libyan A r ab J am ah i r iy a, Ma l i, Niger, Rhodesia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South A f r i c a, Syrian A rab Republic, Tanzan ia, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Republic, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zaire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and at the same time prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of exp i ra t ion must be entered on the customs clearance form, a copy of which is then sent to the Na t ional Bank. For imports of prod- ucts o r ig ina t ing in the Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lake Countries (CEPGL) import licenses are replaced by import notices. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the Na t ional Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the Na t ional Bank, th rough the authorized banks, for ( 1) transport and other expenses (except in su rance) connected w i th imports and exports; ( 2) for t rans fe rs of the salaries or wages earned by foreign na t iona ls em- ployed in Rwanda under contract (net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social secur i ty con tr ibu t ions, and an amount for local expenses equ iva lent to either 40 per cent of net pay a f ter tax —w i th a m i n im um of RF 35,000 or a lump sum of RF 60,000 plus RF 10,000 a depend- ent, whichever is h igh e r ); and ( 3) for t ran s fe rs of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self- employed or engaged in a profession or established as independent traders. A fee of RF 350 is levied for a transfer authorization. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made un t il imported goods have been cleared through customs (unless a documen- tary credit has been opened). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with the Societe Nationale d'Assurance (SONARWA ). Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in ins ta l lmen ts. Nonresidents and resident expatriates may not transfer their net income from rents, except a f ter the sale of the real estate. The purchase of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the National Bank. Purchases of for- eign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for ce r ta in other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require au tho r iza t ion by the Na- tional Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign bank- notes declared upon entry less the amount of their expenditures in Rwanda. Commercial banks are not per- mitted to export domestic banknotes. RWANDA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, personal and house- hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a p r ior declaration. Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank for certifica- tion, for which a fee of RF 350 is levied. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Bu rund i, Kenya, Tanzan ia, Uganda, and Zaire, pay- ment must be collected not later than 30 days a f ter the goods have left the coun try; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in 8 days f rom their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i th in 8 days f rom the ir collec- t ion. The collection of claims resulting f rom services performed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the date on which the claim falls due. Travelers may b r ing in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Commercial banks are not perm i t ted to import domestic banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law or to the personal effects of a foreign national returning to his own country. Retransfer guarantees, as well as an exchange rate guarantee, may be given by the Na- t ional Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows rema in ing in Rwanda for at least two months. Gold Res iden ts may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rw anda for num i sm a t ic purposes on ly. W i th this excep- t ion, residents other than the mone tary authorities and au thor ized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are no rma l ly made on ly by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1979 No s ign i f icant changes took place. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA1 (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of St. Lucia is the East Caribbean Dol- lar,2 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6848 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canad ian dollar and the pound sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is t ry of Finance and applies to all currencies. There are no export licenses. Import licenses are issued by the M in- istry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member coun t r ies of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) 3 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM coun t ry concerned or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made either in any fore ign cu r rency4 or in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the approval of the M in is try of Finance and may be maintained in any currency requested. These accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies and with transfers from other External Accounts but^ot with payments by residents. They may be debited for payments to residents payable in East Caribbean dollars and, af ter approval by the Min- istry of Finance, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open 1St. Lucia became a member of the International Monetary Fund on November 15, 1979. 2 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of An t igua, Do- minica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and St. Vincent. 3 The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 4 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. general license. Certain other commodities require indi- v idual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized impor ts are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Advance paymen ts for imports requ ire prior approval by the M in is try of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$ 1,500 per a n n um for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Area; however, this l im it may be exceeded without per- mission f rom the M in is t ry of Finance. There are no l im i ts on the amount of local currency that may be t ak en out of the country. Profits may be remitted in f u l l, subject to conf irma t ion by the Commissioner of In l and Revenue of registration for income tax purposes. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be exces- sive, the M in is try of Finance reserves the right to phase rem i t tances over a reasonable period of time. Exports and Export Proceeds No licenses are required for the export of goods to any des t ina t ion. Proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered. Du t ies are levied on exports of bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles The fore ign currency proceeds f rom transactions in inv is ib les must be collected. Travelers to St. Lucia may b r ing in f ree ly notes and coin denominated in East Caribbean do l la rs or in any foreign currency. Foreign cu r rency coin is not no rma l ly exchanged. Capital All ou tward capital t ran s fe rs require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not no rm a l ly permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents and income accruing f rom investments may be repatriated provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes during 1979 No s ign if icant changes took place. 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES1 (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenad ines is the East Caribbean Dollar,2 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion cur- rency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6848 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Au tho r i ty also quotes da i ly rates for the Canad ian dollar and the pound sterling. There is a 1 per cent charge on sales of foreign exchange, but there are no subsidies on purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in i s t ry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the East Caribbean Currency Area. The M in i s t ry delegates to authorized dealers the au tho r i ty to approve some impo rt payments and certain other outward payments. Export and import licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of For- eign Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market ( CARICOM ) •' must be made either through Ex te rnal Accounts ( in East Carib- bean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM coun- try concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency4 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents without reference to the Ministry of Finance. They are maintained in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign cur- rencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with payments by residents. They may be debited for payments to residents and for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under 1 St. Vincent and the Grenadines became a member of the Inter- national Monetary Fund on December 28, 1979. 2 The East Caribbean dollar is also the cu r r en cy of A n t i g u a, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and St. Lucia. 3 The CARICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts -Nev is -Angu i l la, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 4 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other Caribbean dollar. than the East open general license. Certain other commodities require ind iv idu al licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon app l ica t ion and submission of documentary evidence. Advance paymen ts for imports require prior approval by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All transactions w i th Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Authorized dealers may provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain payments up to specified l im i ts. Residents may purchase foreign exchange f rom authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$ 1,500 a year for travel outside the East Carib- bean Currency Area; however, th is l im it may be exceeded w i th pe rm iss ion f rom the M in i s t ry of Finance. There are no l im i ts on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Profits may be remitted in f u l l, subject to confirmation by the Com- missioner of In land Revenue of registration for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of cer- ta in goods to any destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Export duties are levied on bananas and coconut oil. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds f rom transactions in invis- ib les mu st be surrendered. Travelers to St. V incent may b r ing in free ly notes and coin denominated in East Caribbean do l lars or in any fore ign currency. Capital All ou tward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for pr iva te purposes is not normally permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents requ ire approval which no rma l ly is granted subject to the payment of any taxes due. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coin. Imports of gold are permitted under license by the M in is try of Finance. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of Sao Tome and P r in c ipe is the Sao Tome and P r inc ipe Dobra, which is pegged to the SDR at Db 45.25 = SDR 1. The m idd le rate quoted by the N a t ion al Bank of Sao Tome and P r inc ipe ( the cen- tral b a n k) for the dobra against the U.S. do l la r, the in terven t ion currency, is de te rm ined on the basis of the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other cu r renc ies are also de term ined on the basis of the Fund's d a i ly ca lcu la t ions of the exchange rates of these currenc ies w i th respect to the SDR. On December 31, 1979, the b u y i ng and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar were Db 33.8177 and Db 34.6738, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control All fore ign exchange transactions are und er the con- trol of the Na t ional Bank. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and exceptions to the stated l im i ts are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All fo re ign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the N a t ion al Bank, and all exchange paymen ts must be made th rough the Na t ional Bank. Import and export licenses are gran ted by the Office of Economics of the M in i s t ry of Economic Coordination. Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transac t ions may be conducted. There are bilateral payments agreements w i th Cape Verde and the German Democratic Republic. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing. Licenses are valid for four months but, if necessary, th is term can be extended on an ad hoc basis. The license specifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. va lues of the product to be imported. It also specifies the currency of settlement. Licenses gran ted have to be presented to the National Bank w i th in 15 days in order to receive foreign exchange cover. Impor ts of some produc ts, such as beans, corn and corn flour, edible oils, meat, m i l k, rice, salt, soap, sugar, and wheat, are a state monopoly and are imported exclusively by the Comme rc ia l iza t ion Fund. Licenses are granted in the fo l low ing order of priority: ( 1) medicines, basic foods tu f fs, fe r t i l ize rs, and insecticides; (2) spare parts for mach ine ry and equip- ment and raw ma ter ia ls for i n d u s t r y; (3) to i le t r ies; and (4) other. Prepayment of impor ts is perm i t ted o n ly th rough the open ing of letters of credit. Impo rt paymen ts in con- vertible currencies are subject to cer ta in charges —a commission of 1.625 per cent, cable costs, a processing fee (taxa de expediente) for open ing a le t ter of credit, 338 in terest at a rate of 6.5 per cent, and a processing fee of Db 1,000 for se t t lement of the letter of credit. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles are approved according to l im i t a t ions established by the Na t ional Bank. Purchases of fore ign exchange by residents for tour ism are strictly l im i ted, although a i r fa res may be paid in domestic cur- rency. Transfers of profits by foreign companies estab- lished in Sao Tome and Principe p r ior to independence have been temporar i ly suspended. There are no limi- ta t ions on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals, books, etc., or on the payment of interest on external debt, provided the existence of the debt can be estab- lished. Foreign exchange allowances for travel on business of na t ional interest are gran ted up to a max imum of Db 1,000 for each day of trave l, Db 15,000 a trip, and Db 50,000 a year. However, these l im i ts may be exceeded if there is adequate jus t i f ica t ion. Foreign exchange allowances for medical purposes are permitted up to Db 30,000 in the first mon th and Db 15,000 in each of the en su ing two months, if adequa te jus t if ica t ion is provided. Fur ther transfers are decided on an ad hoc basis. Transfers of pension paymen ts or social security paymen ts are also permitted if such payments began at least one year before permanent residence in Sao Tome and Principe. Paymen ts for technical assistance and other services in the na t ional interest are allowed. Rem i t tances to close relatives are permitted up to an annu al m ax imum of Db 5,500 for each relative living abroad or up to 40 per cent of the income of the person m ak ing the remittance, whichever is lower. For remit- tances to relatives s tudy ing abroad (at a high school or a un iv e r s i ty ), the following annual limits apply: Db 3,500 for persons 15 years of age or younger; Db 4,000 for persons between the ages of 15 and 21; and Db 6,500 for persons over 21. At the beg inn ing of the school year a s tudent may also receive a special t ran s fer of up to Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to his courses. All p aym en ts related to invisibles are subject to a 2 per cent s tamp tax. If the payment is made th rough a te legraph ic t rans fe r, the tax is 4 per cent. Foreign travelers may take out the amount of foreign exchange declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, which specifies the q u a n t i ty and c.i.f. or f.o.b. v a l ue of the export. All export proceeds must be received th rough the National Bank. A l though the Directorate of Commercialization, a state in s t i tu t ion, is responsible for the great majority of exports, and most export items are produced in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution na t iona l ized sector of the economy, exports are not a state monopoly. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may b r i ng in any am o u nt of exchange. fo re ign Capital Amor t iza t ion paymen ts are perm i t ted if the existence of the debt can be established and if the debt was assumed at least one year before the debtor took up residence in Sao Tome and Principe. Such paymen ts are also permitted if they relate to activities considered to be of na t ional interest. When leaving the country, em ig ran ts may take w i th SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE them up to Db 20,000 a person and Db 30,000 a f am i ly. Thereaf ter, t rans fe rs are g ran ted w i th in the follow- ing m ax imum mon th ly l im i t s: Db 15,000 a person, Db 20,000 a couple, and Db 25,000 a f am i l y. How- ever, these t ran s fe rs must not exceed 40 per cent of the income earned and verified d u r i ng the period of stay in Sao Tome and Pr inc ipe; any amoun ts in excess of two mon ths' t rans fe rs that are s t i ll un rem i t ted must be deposited w i th the N a t ion al Bank. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authori- zation by the N a t ion al Bank. Changes during 1979 No s ign i f icant changes took place. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Saudi A rab ia is the Saudi Arab ian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1. Saudi Arabia at present applies margins not exceeding 7.25 per cent a round that fixed relationship. The middle rate of the Saudi Arabian r iyal for the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, quoted by the Saudi Arab ian Mone tary Agency is determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1979 the Mone tary Agency's m idd le rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.365; it sold U.S. do l lars to banks at SRls 3.37 per US$1 and bought f rom banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.36 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the marke t, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 per cent above and below the Mone tary Agency's buy ing and selling rates. The Monetary Agency also sells s te r l ing to banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Saudi Arabia forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica is prohibited.1 No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses^ are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health or security. Some imports are subject to customs duties at rates rang ing between 3 per cent and 20 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-export of certain imported items benef i t ing from government subsidy is prohibited. 1 In add i t ion, all imports f rom these countries and all expor ts to these countries are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for all types of transactions whether of a current or capital na ture. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi A rab ian banknotes and coin. Capital No exchange con trol requ i remen ts are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. The Mone tary Agency has issued guidelines to its foreign correspondent banks requ i r ing them to seek approval p r ior to the flotation of riyal-denominated loans. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign capital invested in indus tr ial or agricultural projects w i th at least 25 per cent Saudi Arabian par t ic ipa t ion is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, in c lud ing private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a license and w i thout payment of any customs du ty or tax, import and export gold in any fo rm. Changes during 1979 D u r i ng the year the m idd le rate of the Saudi Arabian r iyal against the U.S. dollar was adjusted on 15 occasions; cumulatively the rate moved from SRls 3.295 = US$1 to SRls 3.365 = US$1. January 1. A Royal Decree was issued exempting foreign capital investment in jo int agricultural and indu s t r i al ven tures with at least 25 per cent Saudi Arab- ian par t ic ipa t ion f rom income and corporate taxes for ten years. Previously, such exemption had been granted for five years. January 19. The customs du ty on imports of bottled water was raised f rom 3 per cent to 20 per cent and duties on biscuits and tents were raised from 3 per cent to 10 per cent. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy- ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per m i ll for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the M in is try of Finance and Economic Affairs. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Adminis- tration, and notaries public, any informa t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs (Direc- torate of Foreign Trade), including those for gold. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Libe- 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 3 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. ria, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly effected through correspond- ent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is not per- mitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's for- eign correspondent; such banknotes may be credited to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accotmts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the Va lue of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized inter- mediaries directly to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited, and the import of certain goods is prohibited from all countries except member states of the West A f r ican Economic Com- mun i ty. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports from countries in the former French Franc Area are generally free of license and quantitative restriction; some goods, although free from import license, require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affa irs. Imports of virtually all goods from EC countries (the six original member states) and imports of some goods from all countries of the former Organization for European Economic Coop- eration (OEEC), the United States, and Canada are free of quantitative restriction; such liberalized imports require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports from all non-EC countries outside the former French Franc Area. The import program is put into effect through individual licenses, which are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agricultural producers. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Senegal border or c . i .f .). The import licenses or import certifi- cates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL m ent if a documen ta ry credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have a l ready been imported (if no documen ta ry credit has been opened, on presentation of the b i ll of l a d i n g ). Fur thermore, paymen ts for imports may not be made p r ior to customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro- h ib i ted. Paymen ts for inv is ib les to France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account countries are pe rm i t ted f ree ly; those to other coun t r ies are subject to approval. Paymen ts for inv is ib les related to trade are perm i t ted free ly when the basic trade t ran sac t ion has been approved or does not requ i re au tho r iza t ion. Au tho r ized banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents. Transfers of income acc ru ing to non res iden ts in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also perm i t ted. For tour ist travel, residents t rave l ing to coun tr ies other th an France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies may ob ta in an exchange a l loca t ion equ iv a l ent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for ch i ld ren und er t e n ); any fo re ign exchange r em a in ing a f ter re tu rn to Senegal must be surrendered. Applications for add i t ional amoun ts of fore ign exchange may also be approved. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of CFAF 300,000 a person a tr ip, but not more t h an the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 may be taken out in fore ign notes. The t rans fer of the f u ll net salary of a fo re igner wo rk ing in Senegal is pe rm i t ted upon p resen ta t ion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place w i th in three mon ths of the pay per iod; how- ever, for M au r i t an i an nationals wo rk ing in Senegal the t rans fe rab le portion is limited to 50 per cent or 80 per cent, depend ing on f am i ly status and residence, except for leave salaries, which are t rans fe rab le in f u l l. Resident and nonres ident travelers to fo re ign coun- tries may take out, in addition to any fore ign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bankno te s, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the former French Franc Area may take out any am o u nt in BCEAO banknotes, but, if proceeding to a coun t ry that is not a member of the West A f r i c an Mone- ta ry Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Non res ident trave lers may free ly take out any means of payment, such as travelers checks, issued abroad in the ir names. However, the export of foreign bankno tes in amoun ts in excess of the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000 is authorized only up to the amount declared by them on en t ry (m inus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and p lus any repurchases up to CFAF 50,000). 342 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- h ib i ted. W i th a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, t u na fish), exports to coun tr ies in the former French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, m a i n ly in order to assure ade- qua te supplies for domestic needs and to prevent certain re-exports. Proceeds f rom exports to fore ign countries must n o rm a l ly be collected w i t h in 120 days of the arr ival of the goods at their des t ina t ion. When received in a cu r rency other than that of a country of the former French Franc Area, they must be surrendered by sale on the exchange market not later than one month a f ter collection. AH export transactions exceeding CFAF 150,000 must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles w i th France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies may be retained. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, mu st be collected and surrendered, if received in fo re ign cu r rency, w i t h in one mon th of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r i ng in any amount of bankno tes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coin (except gold coin) of countries out- side the fo rm er French Franc Area; residents b r ing ing in fo re ign b a n k n o t es must declare them to the customs upon e n t ry and sell them to an authorized bank w i th in e ight days. Capital A ll se t t lemen ts between Senegal and Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange con tro l; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange con trol approval, but cap i tal receipts from such coun tr ies are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control r equ i r em en ts that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all ou twa rd inve s tmen t, and over the issuing, adver- t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require prior au tho r iza t ion by the Min- ister of F inance and Economic Affa irs. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guaran tee from the Senegal- ese Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issue, offer- ing, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, mem- ber countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over pub l ic i ty aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscrib- ing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of F inance and Eco- nomic Affa irs .3 Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance and Eco- nomic A f fa i rs before such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the declaration, du r ing which he may request postpone- ment of the project. Both the m ak ing and the l iqu ida t- ing of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the M in is ter and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each opera t ion. Direct investments constitute investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere par t ic ipa t ion is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lend ing abroad requires prior authorization by the M in i s t ry of Finance and Economic Affa irs. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Eco- nomic Affa irs. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF40 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the M in is ter of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs if the loan itself was sub- ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. The Investment Code provides various fac i l i t ies and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. There are special fac i l i t ies for export indus tr ies estab- lished in the indus t r ial free trade zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Senegal. Imports and exports of : {Inc lud ing inves tmen ts made th rough fore ign companies t h at a re d i rec t ly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. 4 In c lud ing those made by companies in Senegal th at are directly or ind irec t ly und er fo re ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. SENEGAL gold f rom or to any other country require prior author- ization by the M in is ter of Finance and Economic Affa irs. Exempt f rom th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic le s ); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the M in is ter of F inance and Economic A f fa i rs to con- duct the ir business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmone tary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require p r ior au thor iza t ion and imports oPornaments require the pr ior advice of the Senegal Corporation for the Promo- tion of Art Hand ic ra f ts (Societe Senegalais pour la Pro- mo t ion de 1'Artisanat d'Art) and the Directorate of M ines and Geology. Changes during 1979 January 16. Prior import licensing was imposed on the impor ta t ion of certain electrical equ ipment (up to specified va lues ), inc lud ing low-frequency electrical amplifiers, television and radio sets, radios with record- ing un i ts, and record players with low-frequency ampli- fiers (Decree-Law No. 79-061). January 24. Duties and taxes on the importation of a number of pr imary chemical products were reduced to a 15 per cent ta r i f f, a 22 per cent standard tax, and a 13.5 per cent turnover tax (Decree-Law No. 79-18). June 25. The customs tariff was revised and simpli- fied. With effect f rom August 1, 1979 a 5 per cent import du ty would apply to most imports except for goods that were already exempted from duty, goods o r ig ina t ing in member countries of the West Afr ican Economic Commun i ty or the Economic Community of West A f r ican States, and imports benefiting f rom the provisions of the Investment Code (Decree-Law No. 79-56 of June 27, 1979). Thus, the re fo rm e l im i- nated the d iscr im ina tory 10 per cent import d u ty applied to impor ts f rom coun tr ies that were considered most-favored na t ions and also reduced ( f rom 30 per cent to 15 per cen t) the import du ty applied to imports f rom coun tr ies other than members of the EC and other than most-favored nations. In add i t ion, a fiscal duty was established comprising a reduced rate of 10 per cent, a normal rate of 35 per cent, a higher rate of 45 per cent, and a special rate of 75 per cent; the level of fiscal du ty imposed would depend on the economic p r io r i ty assigned to the pa r t icu lar import item. The fiscal du ty replaced a variety of import taxes previously levied in a discretionary manne r. All export taxes were eliminated except for those on exports of ground- nu ts and phosphates (Decree-Law No. 79-56). 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 8.3197 = SDR 1. The official buy ing and se l l ing rates for the pound sterling, the intervention currency, are determined on the basis of the da i ly calculation of the pound sterling-SDR rate on the previous business day. On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates of the Seychelles Monetary Au tho r i ty for the pound sterling were SR 14.0166 and SR 14.1220, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The Monetary Au thor i ty charges a commis- sion of 0.25 per cent for buy ing and 0.50 per cent for selling of pounds sterling. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other cur- rencies at rates based on the daily calculations of SDR rates for the respective currencies. These rates are cir- culated da i ly to the commercial banks by the Monetary Au tho r i ty. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Seychelles forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as f rom Janua ry 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control and there are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except where goods imported from Rhodesia and South Africa are concerned. With these exceptions, most goods m^y be imported freely from any source under open general license. Payments for such transactions may be effected without the completion of application forms. A limited number of imports require a specific license and the import of a few items is prohibited. Most imports are subject to duties, with a preferential schedule of rates applied to goods or ig ina t ing in Com- monwealth and EC countries. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally do not require licenses but certain exports are subject to duties. Residents may export goods w i thout exchange control formality to any country, except Rhodesia and South Africa. Export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be disposed of freely. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital payments. Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without limit. Whether or not they have been granted temporary residential status, non- nationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without l im i t. New investment outside Seychelles by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limitation. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct invest- ment, increased investment in existing entities in the form of loans, or equity capital) is free. Gold Residents may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Two issues of commem- orative gold coins in denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000 are legal tender. Changes during 1979 January 1. Tariff duties were revised on a wide range of items. July 5. The Monetary Authority's commissions on purchases and sales of pounds sterling were increased f rom 0.125 per cent, for both buy ing and selling, to 0.25 per cent buying and 0.50 per cent selling. November 5. The fixed relationship between the Seychelles rupee and the pound sterling was terminated. The Seychelles rupee was pegged to the SDR at SR 8.3197 = SDR 1. Commercial bank rates for the pound sterling and other currencies would be based on the Fund's daily calculations of SDR rates for the respective currencies. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone, which is pegged to the SDR at Le 1 = SDR 0.731566. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals only in sterling, the intervention currency, and stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the da i ly rate between the leone and the pound sterling determined on the basis of the SDR-pound sterling rate, subject to a max i- mum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for other currencies on current London market rates. On December 31, 1979 the banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.9814 and US$0.9444, respectively, per Le 1. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the M in- istry of Finance. The day-to-day adm in i s t ra t ion of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and for travel expenses. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements w i th the People's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account or a Sterling Area Account in Sierra Leone, in the currency of the exporting country, in sterling, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Liberia, and Nigeria are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Receipts from exports other than diamonds to countries other than the People's Republic of China and Rhodesia may be obtained in leones f rom an External Account or a Sterling Area Account in Sierra Leone, in the currency of the impo r t ing country, or in any specified currency.1 Receipts from all exports must be obtained in the currency of the importing country or in any other specified currency, through the account of the Bank of Sierra Leone in the importing 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. country, or if there is no such account, through an account in a bank in the importing country nominated by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Settlements w i th Namibia, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held w i th au thor ized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone other than residents of Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. Residents of former Sterling Area coun tr ies - may m a i n t a in Sterling Area Accounts denom- inated in leones. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In add i t ion, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amoun ts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments*, All imports f rom Namibia, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Certain goods •'* may be imported under open general license f rom a wide range of coun- tries. Otherwise, all imports require ind iv idual import licenses.4 Impor ts of rice can be made on ly by the Rice Corporation. Authorized banks have limited authority to grant foreign exchange for import payments; for impor ts under specific import licenses, the approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone is required where the payment exceeds Le 10,000 for each ind iv idual license, and for imports under open general license the Bank's approval must be obtained where the payment for an individual import item exceeds Le 5,000. The Bank of Sierra Leone takes the ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange into account in cons ider ing applications. There has been an accumula- t ion of arrears on import payments. All imports not specifically exempted by the Minister of F inance are subject to an invoice en try tax and to a special l icens ing fee, both at 9 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The rates are 5 per cent for imports f rom coun- tries belonging to the Economic Commun i ty of West A f r i c an States. A charge of 2.5 per cent is imposed on all impo rt licenses, except for impo r ts of raw ma te r ia ls. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require appro- va l, which for many current transactions is given freely. Remittances of earn ings by foreign nationals are limited, in principle, to Le 8,000 or 40 per cent of gross taxable annual wages and salaries, whichever is lower, but the Bank of Sierra Leone may perm it the t rans fer of larger 2 Sierra Leone's regulations still prov ide a de f in i t ion of the Sterling Area; the def in i t ion includes Sierra Leone and excludes South Afr ica. 3 Chickens, c rude oil and petroleum, newsprint, packaging material for indus t ry, fer t i l izers, and educational materials. 4 W i th effect f rom March 6, 1980 the impo r t a t ion of all goods for commerc ial purposes became subject to specific import licensing. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE amoun ts. Insurance on imported goods must be taken out with insurance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone. B u y i ng commission is not no rm a l ly perm i t ted to exceed 2 per cent, and bank charges, f in an c ing com- mission, and other f inanc ial charges on impor ts also are not no rma l ly allowed. There are arrears on pay- ments for current invisibles, inc lud ing interest on o f f ic ial debt. For travel abroad, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a person a ca lendar year. Applications for larger amoun ts are considered on an individual basis. In add i t ion to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of destina- tion, Le 20 in leone notes and the equ iva lent of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency banknotes, inc lud ing sterling notes, declared by them when en te r ing Sierra Leone. Travel abroad is subject to a travel tax of 5 per cent of the price of the ticket, payable at the t ime of pur- chase of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of some commodities, the expor- tation of which is restricted to certain state corporations, export licenses are granted by the M in i s t ry of Trade and Industry for the export of all commodities to all countries except Nam ib ia, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica. The proceeds of exports, inc lud ing d iamonds and other minerals, must be received in the currency of the import- ing country or in any other specified cu r rency agreed to by the Bank of Sierra Leone; the proceeds must be received by the exporter and sold to an authorized b ank in Sierra Leone within three months f rom the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is ob ta ined. The buying and exporting of d iamonds is carried out by six^locally licensed firms and by several foreign companies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified cu r renc ies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon en t ry, persons enter- ing Sierra Leone may b r ing in any amount of fore ign banknotes. The importation of domestic bankno tes is l im i t ed to Le 20 for each traveler. Capital Capital paymen ts to nonres iden ts of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by nonres iden ts other than residents of Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained i n i t i a l ly for the inves tmen t. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 346 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires per- mission if either the person acqu ir ing the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities regis- tered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident abroad, the company is usua l ly required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs du ty concessions to fore ign and domestic companies unde r tak ing indus- t r ial or agr icu l tural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited f rom own ing or controlling certain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must sell to an authorized dealer the ir holdings of gold and specified currency. Exemp t ion is granted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securi- ties may be sold outside the former Sterling Area (see foo tno te 2) and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other S ter l ing Area securities. Any certificate of securities purchased w i th the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt f rom deposit r equ i r em en t s. Any assets held outside the fo rmer S ter l ing Area by any fore ign na t ional tempo ra r i ly resi- dent in Sierra Leone also are exempt f rom surrender and deposit requ iremen ts, provided that exemption has been c la imed and granted by an au thor ized dealer or by the B ank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for num isma t ic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, se l l, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coin. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the mone tary authorities, gold producers, and author- ized indu s t r i al users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; residents must declare and make available to the Government gold held in the fo rm of bars or coin. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry con- s t i t u t i ng the personal effects of a traveler require indi- v idu al impo rt licenses, which are not no rma l ly granted. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and local gold producers. Travelers do not require a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and p la t inum con- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE tent does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unwo rked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1979 May 1. The Government announced the imposition of a charge of 2.5 per cent on all import licenses except for imports of raw materials. August 1. All agricultural imports, in c lud ing fe r t i l- izers, pesticides, an imal feedstuffs, and f a rm mach inery were exempted from the invoice en t ry tax and the import license fee. September 5. The invoice en try tax and the special import l icens ing fee were both raised from 4.5 per cent and 5 per cent of the import c.i.f. value, respectively, to 9 per cent. Impor ts from countries belonging to the Economic Commun i ty of West A f r i c an States were subject to the invoice en t ry tax and the special import l icens ing fee, each at 5 per cent. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 37, 7979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. The value of the Singapore do l lar is determined on the basis of its fixed re la t ionsh ip to a trade-weighted basket of currencies representing Singapore's ma jor t rad ing partners. The exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is de term ined in the fore ign exchange market. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1979 were S$2.1560 and S$2.1570, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the daily rate for the U.S. dollar and their cross rates in international markets. Banks are free to deal spot and fo rwa rd in all currencies. Singapore and B runei currency notes and coins are freely interchange- able, at par and w i thout charge, in Singapore and B run e i. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control formalities but the Mone tary Au tho r i ty of Singapore retains responsibility for exchange con trol matters. The Department of Trade of the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indus try adm in is ters impo rt and export controls; the Controller and Registrar of Imports and Exports is empowered to approve imports and exports. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts There is no d is t inc t ion between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments V ir tua l ly all imports are permitted freely. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons. All imports originating in Rhodesia, South Afr ica, or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Import licenses are required for (1) rice (excluding b r a n ), refined sugar, and chlorine, irrespective of origin; (2) completely or partially knocked-down motor vehicles and scooters; (3) all goods originating in or consigned from Albania, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mon- golia, and Viet Nam. License applications for goods under (3) must be submitted through an intermediary, Intraco Ltd., which levies a surcharge of 0.5 per cent on 348 the c.i.f. value of imports f rom these countries (except the People's Republic of Ch ina ). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to non- residents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made free ly. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes and coin, including Singapore gold coin. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles of Singapore origin to Belgium, Canada, Denma rk, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States are subject to quantitative restric- t ion. Exports of a few other items are restricted irrespec- tive of des t ina t ion. Other commodities do not require an export license. Export proceeds need not be sur- rendered and may be disposed of freely. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be sur- rendered and may be disposed of freely. Resident and nonres ident travelers may b r ing in any amount in for- eign banknotes and coin, inc lud ing Singapore gold coin. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. Gov- e rnment approval is required for investment in residen- t ial and other properties (including vacant land) other than those zoned or approved for industrial or commer- cial use. A foreigner may, however, freely purchase a residential un it w i th in a building of six or more stories and in an approved condominium development w i thout such approval. With regard to other residential proper- ties, fore igners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration for purchase of these properties for their own occupation and, in the case of foreign companies, for the accommo- da t ion of their senior personnel. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an As ian Currency Unit, and thus to operate in the Asian do l lar marke t, may freely accept deposits in currencies other than Singapore dollars. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore, to which residents and nonresidents have free access. Both resi- dent and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt w i th freely by any person in Singapore. There are two d is t inct gold markets, the physical ma rket and the futures market. The delivery points for the physical market can be either in Singapore or in London, with appropriate price ad jus tmen ts for the cost of transportation and insurance. The price of gold used for the manu fac tu re of orna- ments is fixed by the Singapore Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1979 this price was about S$ 1,450 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$ 1,360 per tael for 22-karat gold. Changes during 1979 April 20. New arrangements for s t imu la t ing invest- ment were announced. Companies investing in Singa- pore could apply for an investment allowance in the form of a tax exemption up to a certain level of profit to be determined separately for each company within an SINGAPORE upper l im it of 50 per cent of the new fixed capital expend i ture incurred on approved projects. July 23. Imports of motor vehicles and motor scooters completely or pa r t ia l ly knocked-down were made subject to l icens ing. August 10. The export of footwear to the United States was made subject to licensing. The export of trans is tor radios to the EC was freed from licensing. The impo rt of color photocopying machines was made subject to the endorsement of the Manager, Board of Commissioners of Currency. October 12. Money changers and operators of remit- tance houses were prohibited from operating without prior licensing; licensed banks and approved merchant banks were exempted from these requirements. October 12. The preferential import duties for the import of who l ly or par t ia l ly knocked-down motor vehicles were abolished. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of the Solomon Is lands is the Solomon Islands Do l lar, issued by the Solomon Is lands Mone tary Au tho r i ty. On October 29, 1979 the fixed l i nk between the Solomon Islands do l lar and the Au s t r a l i an do l lar was d i scon t inued; the exchange rate for the Solomon Islands do l lar is now de term ined on the basis of a fixed relationship between the Solomon Islands do l lar and a weighted basket of currencies of the Solomon Islands' most impor tant t r ad ing partners. The Monetary Au thor- ity provides quotations only for the Au s t r a l i an dollar, the in terven t ion currency. On December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates were $A 1.0545 and $A 1.0535, respectively, per SI$1. Exchange transactions in other currencies by commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are based upon quotations received f rom commercial banks in Aus t ra l ia. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Solomon Islands fo rma l ly accepted the obliga- tions of Ar t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on July 24, 1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Monetary Authority by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Monetary Au tho r i ty delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside the Solomoif Islands, which are expressed in a fore ign currency, may only be met by payments in fore ign cur- rency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in the Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts The Monetary Au thor i ty permits nonresidents upon request to open nonresident accounts with authorized dealers, and balances on such accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Approval is required for the credit- ing of these accounts. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except for goods imported from Rhodesia.1 Authorized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions with- out reference to the Monetary Authority. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earn ings 1 The manda to ry sanctions applied against Rhodesia in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolutions were w i thd rawn w i th effect from Janua ry 31, 1980. 350 acc ru ing to overseas residents from companies in the Solomon Islands. Permanent residents2 are permitted to purchase fore ign exchange for payment of all types of inv i s ib les (except to Rhodes ia1), if supporting docu- men ts are provided. Transfers by postal order to per- sons pe rmanen t ly res id ing outside the Solomon Islands are pe rm i t ted, provided that the total amount trans- ferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is no rm a l ly given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged w i th an authorized dealer, and applicants are requ i red to present their passports and passage or flight tickets. Requests for unusua l ly large amounts of foreign exchange are referred to the Monetary Authority. Trav- elers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coin, in excess of SI$250, without the approval of the exchange control authorities, which is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Res iden ts may export goods without exchange control f o rm a l i ty (except to Rhodes ia1), provided that they comp ly w i th the terms of the General Authority issued by the Monetary Au tho r i ty. The essential conditions of th is General Au tho r i ty are that payment for goods exported is received w i th in six months of the date of export, that the export price is reasonable, and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the con- d i t ions of the General Au thor i ty, they must apply to the Mone ta ry Au tho r i ty for a Specific Au thor i ty. Au thor i ty is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one cons ignment or for certain exempted categories of goods, i n c l u d i ng personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign cur- rency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer. Overseas residents v is i t ing the Sol- omon Islands may b r ing in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of capital are allowed without limit (except to Rhodes ia1). Persons who have been granted tempo ra ry residential status by an authorized dealer or 2 All persons residing in the Solomon Islands are regarded as p e rm an ent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been g ran ted tempo ra ry resident s ta tus by an au tho r ized dealer or by the Mone ta ry A u t h o r i t y. App l ica t ions for tempo ra ry resident status are no rma l ly approved if the person is a c i t izen of a fo re ign country who in t ends to reside in the Solomon Islands for a period of less than f o ur years or has resided in the Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm in ten t ion to resume permanent residence overseas in the near f u t u r e. Ownersh ip of real property or a business indicates pe rmanent residential status, regardless of the dura- tion of residence in the Solomon Islands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Monetary Authority are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted where it is likely to be of benefit to the Solomon Islands. In the case of port- folio investments, the approval of the Monetary Author- ity is needed prior to the acquisition or disposal of for- eign securities by a permanent resident. Approval for the acquisition of certain types of securities that are not available in the Solomon Islands is usually granted. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired prior to March 1, 1977. Approval by the Monetary Authority is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capi- tal to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Monetary Authority before it may borrow funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. Where initial or increased foreign investment is concerned, the Commercial Investment Committee in SOLOMON ISLANDS the M in is t ry of Trade, Industry, and Labour must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for a l luv ial gold. Commercial banks and all other resi- dents are required to obtain a permit issued by the M in is try of Na tu ral Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Monetary Authority is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold, but has not yet undertaken any such transactions. Changes during 1979 May 18. The exchange rate of the Solomon Islands do l lar vis-a-vis the Aus tra l ian dollar was appreciated by 5 p e r c e n t f r o m S I $l = $A 1.0000 to SI$1 = $A 1.0500. October 29. The fixed relationship between the Sol- omon Islands dollar and the Australian dollar was dis- continued. It was announced that the exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar would be determined on the basis of a fixed relationship between the Solomon Islands dollar and a weighted basket of the currencies of the Solomon Islands' most important trading partners. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. On December 31, 1979 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were So. Sh. 6.2327 and So. Sh. 6.3573, respectively, per US$1, unchanged since 1973. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out exchange transactions in certain "convertible" currencies,1 taking into account rates in European exchange markets. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank, which operates as the authorized exchange dealer in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. There is a foreign exchange com- mission (including bank ing commission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. The authorized exchange dealer gen- erally does not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although th is is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce is the principal government agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. The Central Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign cur- rencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "con- vertible" currencies,1 and to appoint authorized exchange dealers. The Central Bank may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Com- merce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members, representing various ministries, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and control of foreign economic trans- actions. The National and Local Licensing Committees, representing the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and exports and for transfers in respect of services. The Central Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the National Licensing Committee, unless they are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies;l however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings may be opened with the authorized exchange dealer by Somali nationals residing abroad, by foreign nationals and for- eign institutions having diplomatic status in Somalia, and by foreign companies engaged in mineral prospecting or consultancy services. imports and Import Payments Imports of go ds originating in or shipped from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. State agen- cies are responsible for imports of all commodities, with the exception of imports through the franco valuta sys- tem (see below). The import by state agencies of a few commodities from all sources is temporarily prohibited for balance of payments reasons,2 and some commod- ities are not being imported at present (e.g., soaps and detergents, rubber and plastic footwear, and bleached or unbleached cotton cloth). Individual licenses are required for all commodities. Certain commodities are liberalized when originating in EC countries. The state trading organization, the National Agency for Trade (ENC ), is responsible for the import and distribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. It also is the sole agent for the importation of animal and vegetable oils and fats, corn, rice, wheat flour, coffee, tea, sugar, pasta, and certain other commodities. The Iraqi-Somali Oil Refinery is responsible for the import of crude petroleum, while the National Petroleum Agency is the only importer of other fuels and fuel products, batteries, rubber tubes and tires, and fire extinguishers and related materials. The Pharmaceutical Agency is the only agency entitled to import medicines, while the Agency for Construction Materials is the sole importer of construction materials. Under the franco valuta system, licenses are issued freely to private importers who have obtained foreign exchange from sources outside Somalia (mainly from Somali nationals working abroad) in order to pay for imports. If a commodity imported through this system is normally the responsibility of a state agency, a permit by that agency and the payment of a commission to that agency are required. The state agency may refuse to issue the permit, in which case it undertakes to purchase the imported commodities at a domestic currency price based on the parallel market exchange rate prevailing in neighboring countries and a reasonable profit margin. If goods imported d iffer in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, 1 Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 3 Butter, cheese, tomatoes, nonalcoholic beverages, ready-made clothing, textiles and related materials, electrical appliances and parts, and small passenger automobiles. 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution diplomatic and consular agencies, and international organizations are subject to a statistical and administra- tive tax of 20 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer on the basis of the import license and other documentation. Provided that the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal require- ments, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the th ird business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the appli- cant. The Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise that has not actually passed through customs at the time of paymen t ), pro- vided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without docu- mentary evidence of actual shipment are not permitted. Payments for imports from neighboring areas 3 are per- mitted only by letter of credit and by cash against documents. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; normally, genuine requirements are met provided that balance of payments considerations permit. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises reg- istered under the Foreign Investment Law are normally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Central Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. The foreign exchange allocation for pilgrimages is So. Sh. 5,000 a person. For tourist travel by residents, the allocation is So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. The for- eign exchange allocation for business travel and travel for medical reasons is So. Sh. 1,000 a trip (So. Sh. 1,500 for Canada, Japan, and the United States). Applications for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. Nonresident travelers may take out without authoriza- tion any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin. Resident travel- ers may take out without authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coin. A currency declaration is required from all persons leaving the country. 3 Aden, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Mukawwar Island. SOMALIA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export license is required for all other commodities. Bananas are exported only by the Banana Marke t ing Board. The ENC is the sole agent for the exportation of incense, myrrh, gum arabic, and charcoal. The export of salt, dried fish, and hides and skins also is a public sector monopoly. All export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Central Bank may exempt exporters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export pro- ceeds. Where no banks are operating, an advance pay- ment deposit of 15 per cent of the value of exports is required. Proceeds, from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer within vjive business days a f ter their receipt. The Central Bank may grant exemp- tions from the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coin; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travel- ers may br ing in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coin and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977. In accord- ance with the provisions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Directorate of Planning and Coordination. For "productive" enterprises (as defined in the Foreign Investment Law ), profits may be trans- ferred abroad freely up to a limit of 30 per cent per annum of the capital invested; the unused portion of this transfer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 30 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is increased correspondingly. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a m in imum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or par- tial exemption from import and export taxes, excise 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA duty, income tax, and municipal tax to any enterprise for a period not exceeding five years. For investments registered prior to March 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises regis- tered in or af ter March 1968 must, to the largest pos- sible ex ten t, emp loy residents, and each enterprise must submit to the Committee on Foreign Investments a pro- gram for the subs t i tu t ion of nonresidents by resident employees. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewel- ers must be melted down to a fineness of not more than 22 karats w i th in one month. Imports of gold are exempt from customs du ty when originating in EC countries, and imports f rom elsewhere are subject to a 10 per cent duty. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of South Afr ica is the South A f r ican Rand. The authorities of South A f r ica do not ma in ta in marg ins in respect of exchange transactions but inter- vene in the exchange ma rket to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commercial" rand. The pr inc ipal in terven t ion currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1979 the commercial banks1 spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions w i th the public were US$1.2096 buy ing and US$1.2085 se l l ing, per R 1. Subject to certain l im i ta t ions, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover for pr iva te sector transactions; such cover is given to authorized dealers based on the middle spot rate adjusted by a percentage factor announced from time to t ime which at the end of 1979 represented a fo rwa rd p r em ium on the rand of 2.5 per cent. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There is also a freely floating "f inanc ia l" rand, which is the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r ican securities and other investments in South A f r i ca owned by nonresidents (other than former residents of South A f r i c a ), capital remittances by em igran ts and immigrants, and approved outward capital t rans fe rs by residents. The rate is usually at a discount f rom the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1979, that discount was about 26.52 per cent, the middle closing rate on December 31 being U.S. cents 88.88 per R I .1 South Africa forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are v i r tua l ly no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South A f r ica (def ined for exchange control purposes as i n c l u d i ng South West A f r i c a ), Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, Transkei, and Venda, and these form, with the Repub l ic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory, the Rand Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the respons ib i l i ty of the Treas- ury, which has delegated this au tho r i ty to the South A f r ican Reserve Bank; in tu rn, the Reserve Bank has delegated much of its l icens ing powers to the authorized dealers. Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Import and Export acting on behalf of the Minister for Industries, Commerce, and Consumer A f fa i r s. Exchange for licensed imports is made ava i lab le by the authorized dealers upon proof of sh ipment or, where 1 On February 14, 1980 the discount was 9.77 per cent, the middle closing rate being U.S. cents 110.75 per R 1. advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documen tary evidence, which must include the p r ior approval of the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency AH coun t r ies outside the Rand Monetary Area con- s t i tu te the Non res ident Area. Settlements w i th in the Rand Mone tary Area take place in rand only.2 Settle- ments by residents of the Rand Monetary Area with the Nonres ident Area, except Botswana and Rhodesia, may be made in rand to and f rom a Nonresident Account and in any specified cu r rency* and, for outgoing pay- men ts on ly, in any fore ign currency.4 Settlements with Botswana may be made in rand to or from a local Bots- w a na Accoun t, in Botswana cu r r en cy, in rand f rom a local Non res ident Account to a Botswana Account ( for ou tgo ing paymen ts o n l y ), in rand f rom a local Non- resident Account ( for inwar^ payments o n l y ), or in any specified cu r rency ( for inward payments o n l y ). Settlements w i th Rhodesia may be made in rand to and f rom a local Rhodesian account, in Rhodesian currency, in rand f rom a local nonres ident account to a Rhodesian account ( for outgoing payments on ly ), in rand f rom a local nonres ident account ( for inward payments on ly ), or in any specified cu r rency ( f or inward payments o n l y ). Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of persons resident outside the Rand Mone ta ry Area are divided into Botswana Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, F inanc ial Rand Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Botswana Accounts are held by persons, firms, or compan ies ( in c lud ing b ank s) resident, domiciled, or registered in Botswana. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South A f r i ca of Botswana currency and of any specified cur- rency, and w i th payments f rom local Nonresident or Botswana Accounts. They may be debited for payments for exports to Botswana and other payments due by Botswana residents to South A f r i c an residents, for pay- ments to the account holder while temporar i ly resident 2 L i langeni bankno tes issued by Swaziland are freely convertible into r and, at par, w i t h o ut res t r ic t ion at the Central Bank of Swaz i land, but th ey are not legal tender in South A f r ica. The same rules apply to ma lo ti bankno tes issued by Lesotho w i th effect f rom J a n u a ry 19, 1980. Checks and o ther bills of exchange d rawn by Swazi and Lesotho resi- den ts for payment in South A f r i ca and either in Swaziland or in Lesotho must be denom ina ted in rand. : {A u s t r a l i an dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, F i ji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Ind i an rupees, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya sh i l l ing s, Malagasy f r an c s, M a l awi kw a ch a, N e t h e r l a n ds guilders, New Zealand dollars, No rweg ian k rone r, Pak is tan rupees, Portuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish k rone r, Swiss francs, Uganda sh i l l ings, U.S. dollars, zaires, and Zamb ian kwacha. 4 Foreign cu r rency is any cu r rency other than currency that is legal tender in a coun t ry in the Rand Monetary Area. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA in South A f r i ca for short periods, for paymen ts to other local Botswana Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Botswana currency. Rhodesian Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing b ank s) resident, domiciled, or registered in Rhodesia. They may be credited w i th all authorized paymen ts by South A f r ican residents, w i th the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South A f r ica of Rhodes ian currency and of any specified currency, and w i th payments f rom local Nonres ident or Rhodesian Accounts. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports to Rhodesia and other paymen ts due by Rhodesian residents to South A f r ican residents, for payments to the account holder while he is t empo r a r i ly resident in South A f r ica for short periods, for pay- ments to other local Rhodesian Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing b ank s) resident, domiciled, or registered outside Botswana, Rhodesia, and the Rand Monetary Area. They may be credited w i th all author- ized payments by South A f r i c an residents, w i th the pro- ceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South A f r i ca of specified currency, and with payments f r om other Non- resident Accounts in South A f r i c a. They may be debited for payments to South A f r i c an residents for any pur- pose; for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, i.e., by t rans fer to a local Nonresident, Botswana, or Rho- desian Account, or for remittance to any coun t ry out- side the Rand Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to the account holder while he is temporar i ly resident in South Afr ica for short periods. Financial Rand Accounts are the accounts of non- <£ • residents of the Rand Monetary Area, other than emi- grants from that Area, to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. Such accounts are main- tained w i th authorized banks. They must be credited with the local sale and redemption proceeds of South Afr ican securities and other investments in South A f r ica owned by nonresidents, exc lud ing fo rmer residents of South A f r i c a, and by imm ig ran ts w i th in three years of arrival. Dealers on the Johannesbu rg Stock Exchange are permitted to quote prices for financial rand, and its members are permitted to buy and sell financial rand as agents, acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to t rans fer financial rand balances from one Financial Rand Account in their books to another, in their own books or in the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted securities (which may be exported and sold ab road) or for acquiring central government, municipal, or public utility stock. On application and approval, financial rand may be used by nonresidents for the purchase of other assets. The maturity proceeds of holdings of five- year nonresident bonds and seven-year 6 per cent Securi- 356 ties Rand Bonds, previously issued by the Treasury, can be remitted abroad in foreign currency. The local sale proceeds of South A f r ican securities held by immigrants prior to the ir a r r ival in South A f r ica, or acquired abroad w i th in three years of their arrival, are also credited to Financial Rand Accounts, w i th the exception of assets of persons who have been South Afr ican residents. Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emigrants from the Rand Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. They must be credited w i th any cash held at the time of departure and with the proceeds of any other South African asset also held at the time of departure and subsequently sold. Such f u n ds may not be transferred from South A f r ica or to ano ther Blocked Account in South Afr ica, but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used w i th in certain l im i ts for the holder's living expenses wh i le v i s i t ing South A f r ica, or be invested in any securi- ties that are quoted locally; such securities may not, how- ever, be exported and sold. Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered w i th the Director of Import and Export. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of com- modities, but such licenses are, in general, to be used for goods as prescribed on the relevant import permit. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license inc lude ( 1) all goods imported f rom Bophu tha tswana, Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, Transke i, or Venda and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Ma law i, and Zamb ia that were grown, pro- duced, or m anu f a c tu r ed in those countries. Du r ing 1979 there has been a substantial relaxation of impo rt control measures through the abolition of periodic quota allocations in respect of certain com- mod i ty groups; for imports of these commodities impor ters are en t i t led to permits to meet their fu ll reasonable requirements. The Import Control Regulations for 1980 d is t ingu ish between the fo l low ing broad categories of imports: ( 1) Goods that may be imported without an import pe rm i t; (2) goods for which permits will be granted to meet the f u ll reasonable requirements of importers; and ( 3) goods that may be imported only under permit and for which the precise nature, volume, and value are specified. An importer is au toma t ica l ly granted exchange to pay for the import upon presenting to his bank the neces- sary consignment documents (proof of importation), and an import permit where required. Payments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not normally allowed except with prior Reserve Bank approval. There is an import surcharge of 7.5 per cent on the value of all imports, except those subject to a GATT b ind ing and other agreements to which South Africa is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a party .5 Imports, w i th certain exceptions, are also sub- ject to a general sales tax of 4 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Au tho r i ty is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain cu r rent payments for invisibles without l im i ta t ion and others up to established l im i ts. App l i- cations for larger amoun ts are considered on the ir merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income pay- ments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South A f r ica, approval is given by the authorized dealers w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Department of Indus tr ies and the Reserve Bank, and the profits or d iv idends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subs id iar ies are based on profits earned a f t er December 31, 1974 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such t rans fe rs where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived f rom securities acquired w i th blocked funds or financial rand, or otherwise held by nonresi- dents is freely transferable at the official market rate of exchange to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, f am i ly maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 3,000 for an adult and R 1,200 for a child under 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allo- cation of R 750 for an adu lt (R 300 for a child under 12) for travel to Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozam- bique, Rhodesia, Zaire, Zambia, and the Ind ian Ocean Islands. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 150 a day, with a max imum of R 4,500 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighboring terri- tories mentioned above is R 750 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 150 a day. Residents leaving South A f r ica for destinations out- side the Rand Monetary Area may take the f u ll applica- ble allowance in foreign banknotes. The amount of South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 100 but these are not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South A f r ica w i th in 12 months af ter arrival may take with them up to R 100 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought in to the coun t ry or obtained from the disposal of in s t rumen ts of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Afr ica. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of contract workers re tu rn ing to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take w i th them reasonable amounts in banknotes. •"'The surcharge was abolished w i th effect f rom March 1980. SOUTH AFRICA There are no l im i ta t ions on the export of domestic cur- rency to Bophu tha tswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, Tran- skei, and Venda. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela- t ive ly short supply, or for which domestic prices are subs tan t ia l ly lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (w i th the exception of exports to Bophuthatswana, Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, Transkei, and V end a ). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United K ingdom, any Commonwealth coun try, any British colony, protectorate, or trust terri- tory, and the United States. The re-export of imported goods to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, other than Botswana, is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered w i th in six months f rom the date of ^lipment and /or seven days f rom the date of accrual.0 Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered within seven days f rom the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon en t ry f rom countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 100 in South A f r i c an Reserve Bank notes. There are no l im i ta t ions on the import of domestic currency from Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, Transkei, and Venda. Capital7 A ll inwa rd loan t ran s fe rs requ i re specific approval,8 wh i le inwa rd transfers through commercial rand for investment in equ i ty capital are freely permitted. For- eign exchange accruing to residents f rom capital trans- fers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. tj It was announced on February 25, 1980 that South A f r i c an export- ers may grant credit up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in the par t icu lar t rade or needed to protect an existing export market or to cap tu re a new export market. 7 For exchange control purposes, a nonres ident is defined as a per- son whose no rmal place of residence or dom ic i le is outside the Rand Mone tary Area. Securities are defined as including not only quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights but also unquoted shares in public companies, shares in private companies, government, municipal, and public u t i l i ty stocks, nonresident-owned mor tgage bonds and /or participations in mortgage bonds, and national savings certificates. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" include any temporary or subs t i tu te documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option cer- tificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. s Approval is genera l ly given for borrow ing abroad w i th a m a t u r i ty of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for property development, speculation, or consumer credit. Authorized dealers gen- erally are permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of South African foreign trade and other approved purposes. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Transfers by residents for the purchase of South A f r ican (or other) shares on foreign stock exchanges are gen- erally not permitted (except in amoun ts not exceeding R 2,000 through f inanc ial rand for each shareholder, to allow South A f r i c an residents to exercise rights arising from ex is t ing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South A f r ican stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. App l i- cations by South A f r ican residents to retain in, or trans- fer to, countries outside the Rand Monetary Area funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific develop- ment projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South A f r icans are con- sidered by the Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. Immigrants are required to f u r n i sh the exchange control authorities w i th a complete re tu rn of their for- eign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any transfers of foreign assets take place through the medium of financial rand and may be retransferred abroad through the same channel w i th in the first three years after arrival. Any funds so transferred will, how- ever, not be retransferable to the Republic thereafter through the medium of financial rand. The proceeds of the sale of South A f r ican securities by nonresidents of South A f r ica to residents must be credited to Financial Rand Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The fo l low ing pay- ments related to nonresident capital may be made by the authorized dealers at the commercial rand rate of exchange without reference to the Reserve B ank: trans- fers to nonresidents of South Afr ica of the proceeds on ma tu r i ty of government, mun ic ipa l, and public utility bonds and national savings certificates (except national savings certificates issued on October 1, 1974), provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an em ig ran t) prior to March 20, 1978 and were held continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents of South A f r ica by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; and transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 rema in ing from the reinvestment of financial rand balances. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance, at the rate for the commercial rand, and are permitted to remit up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons) in the form of financial rand. Any bal- ance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Blocked Account. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to a maximum of R 100,000 for a fam i ly un it 358 a year.9 An em igrant fam i ly or a person can export one motor vehicle, w i th a max imum va lue of R 10,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigration, and can export other household and personal effects up to a va lue of R 10,000 for each f am i ly. The Reserve Bank approves transfers of repayments at m a tu r i ty to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in the ir names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances, of current profits earned a f ter December 31, 1974, and dividends declared on profits from t rad ing earned after December 31, 1974, provided that the remittance does not involve the exces- sive use of local credit facilities. The physical export f rom South A f r ica of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants on their departure. There are two ways in which holders of financial rand can repatriate f u n ds from South A f r ica: (1) by export- ing South A f r i c an shares bought on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, provided that they have been restric- t ive ly endorsed, and selling them outside South Afr ica at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South A f r ican quotation; and (2) by selling the f u n ds to another nonresident for foreign currency. Gold Residents of South A f r ica may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South A f r ica for numismatic and investment purposes. With this exception, residents of South A f r i ca other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized indus t r ial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold requ ire the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Afr ica on the traveler's re turn) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manu fac tu r ing jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Rho- desia, and Z amb i a ), subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, after reference and approval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, inc lud ing certain gold coins, for sale to numis- matists. The gold m in ing indus t ry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank within one month of production. As a special concession mines may retain approximately "F rom Janua ry 1, 1980 the total net income earned may be trans- ferred at the commercial rand rate of exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution one th ird of their production for the purpose of m i n t i ng gold coins. The Mint from time to t ime strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand w i thout a face va lue, which are legal tender but do not circulate in South A f r ica; these are made available in l im i ted numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold abroad. Changes during 1979 January 24. The South Afr ican authorities announced the beginning of a gradual and systematic change in the exchange system aimed at the "managed floating of an independent rand." For the commercial rand, official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar would continue to be quoted, but it was the in ten t ion of the authorities to change these rates f rom t ime to t ime depending on market developments. Authorized foreign exchange dealers would be allowed to m a i n t a in reasonable open positions in foreign currencies and to deal in foreign currencies for their own account. The Reserve Bank would no longer quote a fixed charge for both importers and exporters for forward cover, but instead would quote a rate for forward dollars of specified maturities based on the middle spot rate adjusted by a percentage factor announced f r om t ime to time. The securities rand was to be replaced by a financial rand. The exchange rate of the financial rand would float freely. The financial rand, on application and approval, could be used by nonresidents for the purchase of a wider variety of assets than was the case with the securities rand, and for direct investments. January 22. A first allocation of import permits was made, equal to 40 per cent of the value of permits in 1978. January 29. The first stage of the program announced Janua ry 24 was implemented. The Reserve Bank no longer prescribed rates at which authorized dealers should transact foreign exchange business, but con- tinued to quote buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars at which it was prepared to undertake transactions w i th its own customers and w i th authorized dealers. Regu- lations governing forward exchange contracts were revised. The scope of the financial rand was widened. February 27. The Reserve Bank d iscon t inued its quotation of rand-U.S. do l lar exchange rates and began to intervene directly in the exchange ma rke t. March 29. The import surcharge, app ly ing to a ll products whose duties are not bound under the GATT, was reduced from 12.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. May 4. Travel allowances were increased by 50 per cent. May 21. Authorized dealers were empowered to g rant or authorize in te r im borrowing facilities to nonresident-controlled companies provided they reported to the Reserve Bank. June 14. A second allocation of import permits was made, equal to 40 per cent of the value of permits in SOUTH AFRICA 1978, except for alcoholic beverages, which were l im i ted to 25 per cent. June 21. The following changes in exchange control procedures were announced: ( 1) Outward capital trans- fers by residents would normally take place at the finan- cial rand rate instead of the commercial rand rate, and permission for such transfers would be granted more f ree ly th an before. (2) Immigrants, other than former South A f r ican residents, were freed of any obligation to t ran s fer the ir foreign assets to South A f r ica, but still would no rma l ly be expected to transfer, at the rate for the commercial rand, the income accruing from the ir foreign assets. (3) The limit for maintenance transfers was increased from R 100 a month to R 150, as was the annual limit on gifts, and student allowances were increased by allowing tuition fees to be remitted over and above the standard allowances. (4) Travel agents, hotels, and shops were permitted to accept for- eign banknotes and travelers checks in payment for goods or services rendered, provided such exchange was sold fo r thw i th to an authorized dealer. (5) Emi- gran ts would be entitled to the normal travel allow- ance and, in addition, would be permitted to remit up to R 100,000 a fam i ly un it in the fo rm of financial r and: any foreign assets owned by an emigrant would no longer affect the allowance. (The allowance for s ing le persons was limited to R 50,000.) Families who had already emigrated also were permitted to transfer up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons) in the form of financial rand, reduced by the amount of any se t t l ing- in facilities of which they had already availed themselves. The l im it for the export of household and personal effects was raised to R 10,000 for each family un i t. The allowances for use in South A f r ica for emi- gran ts' rema in ing South A f r ican assets were increased to R 5,000 a year at a rate of R 100 a day (R 50 a day for a ch i ld ). (6) Authorized foreign exchange dealers were required to post security, subject to for- fe it in cases where exchange control rules were not observed. (7) Foreign na t iona ls temporar i ly resident in South A f r ica would automatically be exempted from t r a n s f e r r i ng the ir income to South Africa. Income due to residents f rom inter vivos trusts established less than three years pr ior to depar ture might only be transferred th rough financial rand. Nonresident beneficiaries of South A f r i c an estates might use such f u n ds to meet local l iv ing expenses (at the rates allowed to emigrants) and might also pay in South Afr ica for their fares to and f rom the Republic. (8) The issue by the Treasury of five-year nonresident bonds and seven-year 6 per cent Securities Rand Bonds would be discontinued ( f rom J u ly 4 ). Exchange control procedures regarding travel fac i l i t ies and departure were tightened. August 29. A third allocation of import permits was made, equal to 20 per cent of the v a lue of permits in 1978. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA September 24. The facility whereby inheritances of under R 2,000 due to nonresidents could be transferred through commercial rand was withdrawn. October 22. The amount of Reserve Bank notes that resident travelers leaving South Afr ica for destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area were allowed to take with them was increased from R 50 to R 100. It was also announced that the entire travel allowance might be taken in the form of foreign banknotes and that the permitted value of a medical letter of credit taken by a traveler would be raised from R 2,000 to R 3,000. November 22. Import quotas were lifted from a range of consumer items for which import permits would in fu ture be granted to meet the full reasonable require- ments of importers. Provisionally, imports of motor vehicles would remain subject to permits, although per- mits for new vehicles would be granted on a full reason- able requirement basis; used motor vehicles would remain subject to specific import control. December 3. It was announced that the Reserve Bank would limit the provision of forward cover on foreign loans, including trade credits, obtained by public sector entities to the exchange risk between the rand and U.S. dollar. December 10. Restrictions on local borrowing by partly or wholly foreign-owned companies were eased. Bills and promissory notes directly related to current trade transactions between South African companies and foreign concerns would be discounted in local financial markets, and the amounts involved would be exempted from exchange control regulations. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTHERN RHODESIA1 (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Southern Rhodesia is the Rhodesian Dollar. The Rhodesian dollar has a fixed relationship with the South African rand, which is adjusted at irregular intervals. The current middle rate is R 1.24 per $R 1. Rates for other currencies are fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia (the central b a n k) on the basis of a weighted currency basket. Although the Reserve Bank quotes rates for cer ta in currencies only, the authorized banks are permitted to deal in any currency. Rates for currencies not quoted by the Reserve Bank are determined on the basis of cross rates against the U.S. dollar prevailing on in te rna t ional foreign exchange markets. Forward exchange transactions are permitted to cover import and export contracts only. There is no l im it on the amoun ts or the currencies in which these contracts can be made. The Reserve Bank will cover fo rwa rd transactions in all those currencies which they quote on a daily basis, with the exception of the Ma lawi kwacha. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. The commercial banks have in tu rn been given authority to approve cer ta in normal current payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by per- sons normally resident in countries outside Southern Rhodesia. The balances on these accounts are freely remittable to the country of residence of the account holder. Nonresident accounts may only be credited w i th the proceeds of the sale of foreign currency, payments from other nonresident accounts, or payments by resi- dents which would be eligible for transfer outside Southern Rhodesia. Nonresident accounts may be debited with payments to residents, paymen ts to other nonresident accounts, payments to persons resident out- side Southern Rhodesia, the cost of any foreign currency purchases, and payments to the account holder wh i le he is temporarily resident in Southern Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments An import license is required for v i r tua l ly all com- mercial imports. The exceptions are certain specified items allowed under open general license. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresident account !On December 13, 1979, following the l i f t ing of sanctions by the Un i ted K ingdom, Southern Rhodesia reverted to its fo rm er s ta tus as a nonmetropolitan territory, in respect of which the United Kingdom had accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. The territory became independent under the name of Zimbabwe on April 18, 1980. is allowed automatically for all authorized imports, subject to presentation of the relevant documents. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to impo r ts and, w i th in certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated au tho r i ty. App l ica t ions for foreign exchange exceeding the l im it established for a commercial bank are referred to the Reserve Bank, which deals with each on its mer i ts. .& The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday t ravel in A f r i ca is $R 50 a day up to a max imum of $R 600 a calendar year. For holiday travel outside A f r i ca the allowance is $R 50 a day with a maximum of $R 800 a ca lendar year. Ch i ldren under ten are allowed ha lf these rates. Special rates apply for busi- ness t ravel or t ravel for medical reasons. Persons depar t ing from Southern Rhodesia may not take w i th them more than $R 20 in Rhodesian currency notes and the equ iva lent of $R 20 in foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely but certain items are subject to export l icens ing to ensure that domestic requ iremen ts for those goods are met, or for the control of strategic materials. Export proceeds in foreign cur- rency must be returned to Southern Rhodesia and sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any currency must be sold to an au thor ized bank in Southern Rhodesia. There is no l im i t a t ion on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be impor ted by travelers but not more than $R 20 may be impo r ted in Rhodesian currency. Capital Inwa rd t ran s fe rs of capital through normal bank ing channe ls are not restricted in any way. Ou tward t rans fe rs of capital are controlled but f rom June 1, 1979 a ll capital inves tment in new ventures, irrespective of its source, in troduced in to Southern Rhodesia through no rmal bank ing channels may be f ree ly repatriated after two years, subject only to the re levant amount be ing reduced by any income that may have been remitted in the interim. Any amount in excess of the net balance rema in ing thereaf ter may be t rans fe r red th rough the established disinvestment mecha- nism of six-year, 4 per cent tax-free bonds. In general, residents are not permitted to t rans fer capital abroad but they are permitted to purchase foreign securities on the Zimbabwe-Rhodesia stock 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTHERN RHODESIA exchange through a local "pool" arrangement, provided that the securities are registered in the name of an authorized nominee and that all income is repatriated. Emigrants are granted a capital settling-in allowance which varies according to age and f am i ly status. Elderly emigrants are given enhanced settling-in allowances and those over the age of 70 are, in addition, allowed to receive an annual release of capital of $R 3,000. All bona fide income on investments by nonresidents is freely remittable to their normal country of resi- dence. Income accruing in Southern Rhodesia to former residents who have emigrated is remittable up to a normal limit of $R 50,000 for persons who have retired and $R 25,000 for others. The remittability of the Southern Rhodesian pension of a former resident is guaranteed under the Constitution and, subject to cer- ta in conditions, so is the commutation of a pension. Changes during 1979 December 12. Sanctions against Southern Rhodesia were lifted by the United Kingdom with effect from December 13. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. The au tho r i t ies of Spain do not m a i n t a in ma rg ins in respect of exchange t ransac t ions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supp ly con- ditions in the exchange markets. However, the au tho r i- ties in tervene when necessary in order to smooth out f luc tua t ions in exchange rates and to m a i n t a in s tab i l i ty in the exchange marke t. Official b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for specified currencies1 are fixed d a i ly by the Bank of Spain ( the cen tral b a n k ), ac t ing in consul- tation with the authorized banks. On December 28, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l la r, the in te rven t ion currency, were Ptas 66.249 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Purchases and sales of c lear ing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spa in, which publishes the rates at which it settles direct transac t ions. These rates are the same as the p reva i l ing rates for the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Spain also quotes each week buy ing and selling rates for bankno tes in specified for- eign currencies. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in fo re ign markets for spot and forward t ransac t ions related to commercial operations for up to 360 days; forward transactions w i th customers are restricted to currencies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange m a rk et and to permitted import and export transac t ions w i th a m a t u r i ty up to 360 days. The forward peseta position of an ind i- vidual bank must not reflect a net buy ing or se l l ing balance at the close of each day. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Me l i l la cons t i tu te a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are fo rmu- lated by an in term in is ter ial commission. The M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism is in charge of adm in i s t r a- tive functions connected w i th exchange control. The Bank of Spain is in charge of operations, in pa r t icu la r, the hand l ing of external reserves. It is also responsible for the authorization of foreign currency loans to resi- dents for non trade purposes. Trade con tro ls are adm in- istered by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism. The M in is try also is in charge of the controls over Spanish inves tment abroad, private Spanish l end ing abroad, for- eign financing of trade, and the reg is tra t ion of foreign inves tmen ts in Spain. Contracts re la t ing to technological matters must be registered w i th the M i n i s t ry of Indus t ry. 1 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, Finnish m a rkk a a, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts on account of merchand ise transactions and inv is ib les may be made in any specified currency,1 but they are u s u a l ly made in the currency of the coun try of origin or des t ina t ion. There are no b i la teral payments a r rangemen ts. Nonresident Accounts There are several types of nonresident accounts, in c lud ing Foreign Accounts in Pesetas for Paymen ts in Spain (A Accoun t s ), Foreign Accounts in Convertible Pesetas (B Accoun ts ), Ex te rnal Accounts in In ternal Pesetas, Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies, Bank Accounts in Pesetas w i th Andorra, Em ig ran ts' Accounts, and Tourists' Accounts in Foreign Pesetas. A Accounts may be freely credited w i th ( 1) the coun te rva lue in pesetas of conver t ib le cu r renc ies sold on the fo re ign exchange ma rke t; (2) amoun ts trans- ferred from other A Accounts; (3) amoun ts transferred f rom B Accounts; and (4) any interest payab le on the accoun t. These accounts may be free ly debited for ( 1) any payment in pesetas in favor of Spanish ju r id i c al persons and Spanish or fore ign physical persons legally resident in Spain ( i n c l u d i ng paymen ts r e l a t ing to foreign inves tment in S p a i n ); and (2) t rans fe rs to other A Accounts. Debits for the purchase of foreign cur- rency for rem i t tance abroad are not pe rm i t ted. B Accounts may be f ree ly credited w i th ( 1) any peseta collections generated in Spain that under exist- ing ru les are t rans fe rab le abroad und er powers dele- gated to au thor ized banks; (2) amoun ts transferred f rom o ther B Accounts; and (3) any interest payable on the account. The crediting of amoun ts o r ig ina t ing f rom A Accounts is prohibited. B Accounts may be f ree ly debited for ( 1) the coun te rva lue in pesetas of fore ign cu r rency acquired on the fo re ign exchange mar- ket; (2) any paymen ts in pesetas in f avor of Spanish j u r i d i c al persons and Spanish or foreign physical persons lega l ly resident in Spain, in c lud ing those relating to fo re ign investment in Spain; (3) t ran s fe rs to other B Accounts; and (4) t rans fe rs to A Accounts. All other transactions on A or B Accounts require the pr ior au tho r iza t ion of the M in is t ry of Commerce and Tourism. External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold nonresidents' f u n ds acc ru ing in Spain that are not t r an s f e r ab le abroad. Au toma t ic approval is given to open such accounts. Balances are free ly negotiable between nonresidents ho ld ing such accounts. These accounts may be credited free ly with ( 1) the f u ll pro- ceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate originally acquired w i th pesetas from an Ex ternal Account in In ternal Pesetas; (2) the fu ll proceeds of the sale by a nonres ident to a resident of 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Spanish shares and fixed-interest securities th at have been acquired w i th pesetas f rom an Ex t e rn al Account in In te rnal Pesetas and have been held for less t h an three years consecutively by the same owner-; (3) receipts f rom the Na t ional Lo t te ry; (4) in te rest received on balances held in these accoun ts; and (5) transfers f rom any other Ex te rnal Accoun ts in In te rnal Pesetas. They may be debited f r e e ly for ( 1) payments of any amount of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close re la t ives (a manager's personal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a j u r i d i c al p e r son ); (2) the purchase of shares quoted on the stock exchange and of Spanish fixed-interest securities; ( 3) the purchase for the use of the account ho lder (prov ided that the account holder is a nonresident physical person) of u rb an and ru r al properties that do not represent inve s tment for com- mercial, indus t r ia l, or ag r icu l tu ral purposes (app l icab le to rural properties on ly if the account ho lder is of Span- ish n a t i o n a l i t y ); (4) the purchase of N a t i o n al Lo t tery tickets; and (5) t ran s fe rs to any other Ex t e rn al Accoun ts in In ternal Pesetas. All other en t r ies on these accounts require prior au tho r iza t ion, and the accoun ts may not be overdrawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Cur- rencies may be held by non res iden ts; res ident fo re ign nationals may ma in ta in such accounts o n ly if opened before Janua ry 1, 1968, in order to m a i n t a in acqu ired rights. The deposits may be e i ther sight or t ime. The accounts may be credited w i th conve r t ib le currenc ies quoted in the Spanisji exchange m a rk et and w i th any amount of interest. They may be debited free ly for reconversion in to the currency i n i t i a l ly deposited, for the purchase of other conver t ib le cu r renc ies quo ted in the Spanish exchange marke t, and for conversion in to pesetas, inc lud ing the t r a n s f er to an A Accoun t. Over- d ra f ts are prohibited except for m a il cred i ts in favor of foreign banks. Emigrants' Accounts. Since October 29, 1970, com- mercial banks have been au thor ized to open sav ings accounts in convertible pesetas for Span ish citizens working abroad. The regu la t ions were mod i f ied by Royal Decree No. 1222/77. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are p roh ib i ted / '5 Most imports are admitted under the following arrangements: ( 1) free imports, (2) global quotas, ( 3) state trading, and (4) ind iv idual licensing, also referred to as the "bilateral import regime." All imports requ i re e i ther an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Policy and Imports. Provided that import prices are not considered abno rma l, import declarations are issued free ly for a large number 2 The proceeds of such securities that have been held for at least three years consecutively are transferab le abroad. 3 Sanctions against Rhodesia were l i f t ed w i th effect f r om J a n u a ry 15, 1980. 364 of goods (mos t ly foods tu f fs not under state t rad ing, raw ma ter ia ls, cap i tal goods, and spare parts, and also some con sumer goods) inc luded in an import free list that applies to most countries; the free list also applies to imports f rom I ran and Japan .4 A ll other specified impo r ts requ i re licenses. There are global quotas for specified impor ts f rom coun t r ies to which the f ree list applies, but licenses are u s u a l ly g ran ted for larger amounts .5 With certain excep- t ions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese or ig in. Licenses for impor ts f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Po land, Rom an i a, and the U.S.S.R. are issued f ree ly. Impo r ts of cer ta in agricul- t u r al products, some raw materials, pe tro leum products, and tobacco are state t raded; some goods fo rm a l ly listed as be ing subject to state trad ing, such as feedgra ins or raw cotton, may be free ly imported by pr iva te traders. Impo r ts of ce r ta in ag r icu l tu ral produc ts th at are free of q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ion and p rev ious ly were state traded are subject to va r iab le impo rt levies. Impo rt subsidies are paid on ce r ta in foodstuffs and specified other essen- t ial commod i t ies. Exchange in the appropr ia te currency to pay for au thor ized impo r ts is granted free ly. Except for c ap i t al goods, supp l iers' credit for imports is not n o rm a l ly pe rm i t ted to exceed 90 days. All import trans- ac t ions must be dom ic i led w i th an au thor ized b ank, and the impo rt p aym ent must be made th rough the bank of dom i c i l i a t ion; exempt f rom dom ic i l ia t ion are trans- actions v a lu ed at less th an Ptas 500,000, provided that p aym ent is to be made w i t h in one year. Payments for Invisibles Banks are au tho r ized to sell fo re ign exchange f ree ly for listed cu r rent inv is ib les, provided t h at the request is supported by appropr ia te documen ts to v e r i fy the a u t h e n t i c i ty of the transaction .0 Holders of Spanish securities (exc lud ing securities issued by p r iva te com- panies and acquired th rough direct subscr ip t ion) may f ree ly t r an s f er abroad accrued interest, d iv idends, and proceeds f rom the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been purchased w i th convertible pesetas, w i th pesetas resu l t ing f rom the sale of fore ign exchange, or with pesetas released from External Accoun ts in In te rnal Pesetas. Profits and d iv idends on direct inves tmen ts are also freely transferab le abroad. Rents on nonres iden t-owned real estate are transferab le, provided that the purchase price has been paid in fu l l. A general license permits the re insu rance abroad of risks insured in Spain w i th Spanish firms or w i th for- eign insu rance companies ope ra t ing in Spain. Insurance contracts abroad are restricted to cover for exports and impo r ts of goods. 4 The import f ree list does not app ly to A fgh an i s t an, Albania, Ando r ra, B h u t a n, People's Repub l ic of China, North Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, San Mar ino, Tibet, U.S.S.R., and Viet N am. " There are separate global quotas for imports of the same com- modities f rom EC countries. 0 For details of recent liberalization measures, see section on Changes d u r i ng 1979, en t ry for October 27, below. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments up to Ptas 25,000 for any purpose may be made w i thout any suppo r t ing documents. The basic exchange allowance for tou r ism is Ptas 80,000 a person a journey, with an a n n u al m a x im um of Ptas 320,000. The authorized banks are pe rm i t ted to sell the e q u i v a l e nt of Ptas 200,000 a person for each business t r ip, w i th an a n n u al m a x im um of Ptas 1.4 m i l l ion, and any amount for travel for education or health care. Travelers may take w i th them Ptas 20,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. The sale of foreign exchange for amoun ts in excess of the above l im i ts and for current invisibles not specifically listed requires a prior declaration to the M in i s t ry of Com- merce and Tourism (Bu reau of Ex t e rn al T r an s a c t ion s ). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to p r ior l icens ing by the Directorate-General of Exportation. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange ma rket or to the Bank of Spain through au tho r ized bank s. C e r t a in ag r icu l- tu ral exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds f rom inv i s ib l es mu st be sold in the exchange ma rket or to the B ank of Spa in t h r o u gh authorized banks w i th in eight d « /s of receipt. Trave lers may b r ing in a m a x im um of P tas 100,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital 1. Inward Transfers (a) Foreign direct investments. As a gene ral ru le, there are no restrictions on f o r e i gn c ap i t al i n v e s tm e n ts which lead to ownership of up to 50 per cent of the capital of Spanish companies. P r ior a dm i n i s t r a t i ve au thor iza t ion is no rm a l ly requ ired for fo re ign inve s t- ments of more than 50 per cent. Special fo re ign pa r- ticipation ratios and regu la t ions app ly to ce r ta in specific activities.7 Thus, foreign cap i tal inve s tmen ts are not allowed in defense indus tr ies or the news med ia, wh i le in public service companies foreign cap i tal ho ld ings may not exceed 25 per cent. Foreign inve s tment in Spanish companies m anu f a c tu r ing cap i tal goods t h at are l is ted in the Appendix List of the Customs Code requ ires registration only; if no no t i f ica t ion to the con t r a ry has been received w i th in 30 days, the reg is tra t ion may be deemed an authorization. Foreign investors may also acqu ire up to 100 per cent of the capital of Spanish companies, provided that the investment meets the fo l low ing cond i t ions: the inves t- ment must be for more than Ptas 100 m i l l i o n, at least 100 new jobs must be created, the inv e s tm ent must be 7 The fore ign content of inves tment by Spanish companies w i th fore ign par t ic ipa t ion is determined in the fo l low ing m ann e r: ( 1) if fo r e ign participation exceeds 50 per cent, the inve s tment is consid- ered 100 per cent fo r e ign; (2) if fo r e ign p a r t i c ip a t ion is over 25 per cent but equal to or less than 50 per cent, the inv e s tm ent is consid- ered fore ign to the ex tent of such par t ic ipa t ion; nevertheless, if fo r e ign investors enjoy a position of dom inance, the inve s tment is con- sidered 100 per cent foreign; and (3) if fore ign par t ic ipa t ion is 25 per cent or less or if there is Spanish Gove rnment p a r t i c ip a t ion, the investment is considered as domestic. SPAIN l i k e ly to have a f avo r ab le effect on Spain's ba lance of paymen t s, and it mu st not give rise to outflows of exchange in the fo rm of roy a l ty p aym en ts for techn ical assistance. Foreign direct i n v e s tm e n ts are also au thor ized in Spanish compan ies that are in the process of increas- ing t h e ir capital. This may be effected th rough the pur- chase of shares or inve s tment in the capital provided t h at the company creates 100 p e rm an ent jobs, that the fo re ign cu r rency account shows a positive ba lance a f ter one year of produc t ion, that the to tal capital and reserves of the company are increased by at least 30 per cent, and that at least Ptas 100 m i l l i on is invested in the purchase of shares. Foreign inve s tmen ts may be effected by t r an s f e r r ing currencies that are negotiable in the Span ish exchange m a rk e t, by u s ing conve r t ib le pesetas, by b r ing ing in cap i tal goods, by re inves t ing p ro f i ts or cap i tal trans- fe rab le u n d er the Foreign Inve s tment Law, or by pro- v i d i ng technology, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, inc lud- ing cap i tal ga ins, f rom the l iqu ida t ion of fo re ign direct inv e s tm en ts may be t r an s f e r r ed f ree ly. (b) Portfolio investments. Purchases by non re s iden ts of shares in most Spanish compan ies are permitted f r e e ly up to the percentages app l icab le to d irect inves t- men t. This app l ies to shares acqu i red by Span iards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident fore igners, either w i th conver t ib le pesetas or with pesetas resu l t ing f rom the conversion of fore ign cur- rencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange m a rk e t. Pro- ceeds, i n c l u d i ng cap i tal ga ins, f rom the l iqu id a t ion of such shares may be t rans fe r red abroad at any time, or used for f u r t h er purchases of shares.8 Purchases by non res iden ts of bonds and other fixed-income securities rep resen t ing debts of either Spanish companies or the Span ish Gove rnment and i ts agencies are un res t r ic ted when financed as indicated in th is pa rag raph, and the f u ll sales proceeds are t rans fe rab le. (c) Real estate investments. Inv e s tm ent in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is, w i th in ce r ta in l im i ts ,0 f r e e ly perm i t ted if f inanced w i th pesetas derived f rom conve r t ib le currenc ies or f rom balances in nonresident peseta accoun ts (A or B Accoun t s ). The M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism has empowered au thor ized banks to prov ide the investor w i th a document ce r t i fy ing that he owns such pesetas; th is is the on ly requ i rement for o f f ic ial registration of the change in ownersh ip. Cer- t a in inves tmen ts in real estate may also be financed from Ex ternal Accounts in I n t e r n al Pesetas. Irrespective of the method of financing, r u r al properties purchased s However, if the pu rcha se was made w i th in t e rn al pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, a f t er which he may t r an s f er the l iqu id a t ion proceeds abroad. " Purchases of real estate by nonres ident phys ical persons of fo re ign n a t i o n a l i t y, if f inanced w i th f u n ds impor ted f r om abroad, a re f ree ly p e rm i t t ed by a general au tho r i z a t ion, as fo l lows: ( 1) one plot not exceeding 5,000 squa re meters for one s ing le - fam i ly dwe l l ing for personal use, (2) the land needed for the cons truc t ion of an apart- ment bu i ld ing, and (3) up to th ree ap a r tm en ts in a single apar tment bu i ld ing. There are separate r egu l a t ions g o v e r n i ng the purchase of business premises. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN may not exceed 4 hectares of i r r ig a t ed l and or 20 hec- tares of u n i r r i g a t ed land. When Span ish real estate is sold to a res iden t, the f u ll sales proceeds are t ran s- ferable if the in i t ial purchase was f inanced w i th con- ve r t ib le foreign cu r r en cy or w i th pesetas f r om an Ex ternal Account in Conve r t ib le Pesetas, an A Accoun t, or a B Accoun t. If the i n i t i al pu rcha se was f inanced w i th pesetas f rom an Ex t e rn al Account in I n t e r n al Pesetas, no part of the sale proceeds is t r a n s f e r a b l e. (d) Bank credit. Local b ank cred it extended at med ium term or long term to Span ish firms w i th fo re ign pa r t ic ipa t ion in excess of 25 per cent is subject to special directives, but such cred it may be g ran ted for up to 18 mon ths, irrespective of the degree of fo re ign par- t ic ipa t ion, on the same cond i t ions as are app l i ed to wholly Spanish-owned firms. (e) Other credits. The g r a n t i ng of loans by non res i- den ts to residents requ i res a u t h o r i z a t i on by the Bank of Spain. Suppliers' cred i ts ex tended to res iden ts by non re s iden ts requ i re a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Tou r ism. 2. Ou twa rd T ran s fe rs (a) Direct investments. D irect i n v e s tm e n ts abroad by residents are p e rm i t t ed f r e e ly p rov ided one of the f o l l ow i ng cond i t ions is me t: ( 1) the sha re of the Span- ish i n v e s tm e nt is at least 20 per cent of the c a p i t al of the fo re ign comp any; (2) the Span ish inv e s tor p a r t i c i- pates in the m an ag em ent of the fo r e ign c om p a ny or o therw ise exercises an im p o r t a nt i n f l u e n ce over i t; or (3) the fo r e ign company uses e x c l u s i v e ly or predom i- n a n t ly technology provided by the Span ish inve s to r. Direct i n v e s tm e nt projects ab road m u st be declared to the Bu reau of Ex t e rn al T ran sac t ions for v e r i f i c a t i on of a u t h e n t i c i ty and for s ta t i s t ical con t ro l. If no a dm i n i s- t r a t ive no t i f i c a t ion is received rega rd ing the project w i t h in t h i r ty days of the d e c l a r a t ion, the pa r t ies con- cerned may proceed w i th the i n v e s tm e n t. The inve s t- m ent mu st be carried ou t, in p r i n c i p l e, w i t h in a period of s ix mon ths. Direct inve s tmen ts in fo re ign compan ies lead ing to the purchase and ho ld ing of secu r i t ies and the purchase of real estate are not l ib e r a l i z ed. (b) Portfolio investments. B an k s, s a v i n gs i n s t i t u t i o n s, and in su rance compan ies may pu rcha se fo r e ign secur i- ties up to 10 per cent of the inc rease in t h e ir own resources. In the case of e x i s t i ng e s t ab l i shm en t s, the increased resources are c a l c u l a t ed f rom the da te on wh i ch Royal Decree No. 2236/79 of September 14, 1979 ( p r o v i d i ng for the l i b e r a l i z a t i on of Span ish inve s t- m e n ts ab ro ad) became e f f e c t iv e; for new e s tab l i shmen ts the c a l c u l a t i on is made f r om the da te on wh ich the m i n i m um legal r equ i r em en ts for subsc r ibed and pa id- up c ap i t al a re effective. Spanish res iden ts may pu rchase f r e e ly f i x e d - i n c ome secur i t ies d e n om i n a t ed in fo re ign exchange and issued by Span ish p r i v a te and p u b l ic in s t i- t u t i o ns and by i n t e r n a t i o n al o rg an i z a t ions in wh ich Spa in is a member. Purchases of secu r i t ies re fe r red to above 366 mu st be reported to the Bu r e au of Ex te rnal Transactions. A ll other Spanish inve s tmen ts abroad requ i re prior au tho r iza t ion, wh ich is hand led by the Bu reau of External Transactions if the investment does not exceed Ptas 100 m i l l i o n, and by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism in the case of h igher amoun ts. (c) Loans. Requests by nonb ank residents to g r ant loans to nonresidents and for suppliers' credits f rom Spanish residents to nonresidents requ ire au thor iza t ion by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism. There has been no exper ience w i th the issu ing of bonds in the Spanish cap i tal ma rket by nonres iden ts, nor w i th short-term credits gran ted by Span ish banks to non- res iden ts other t h an cer ta in export credits granted d i r e c t ly to fore ign impor ters. Credits to nonres iden ts for t ransac t ions w i th Spain may, however, be authorized by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism. Fur ther- more, au tho r ized b anks may extend va r ious types of cred it to non res iden ts, provided t h at th is credit is f in an c ed w i th f u n ds deposited in Spain in non re s ident conv e r t ib le cu r r en cy accoun ts; some fo rms of such credit do not requ i re p r ior approval by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tour ism. Gold Res iden ts may ho ld and acqu i re gold in any fo rm in Spain. Impo r ts of gold are sub ject to quo t as issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tour ism. Such quo tas are g ran ted to i n d u s t r i al users for purposes of m a n u f a c t u r i ng j ew e l ry and other a r t ic les. Changes during 1979 January 11. R o y al Decree No. 125 /79 extended u n t il A p r il 29, 1979 the th r ee m o n t hs reduc t ion of import du t i es p rov ided by Roy al Decree No. 1780/78. The reduc t ion app l ied to commod i t ies listed und er Chapters 25-54 and 56-99 of the Brussels Ta r i ff Nomenc la tu re and amoun t ed to 20 per cent on rates greater than 10 per cen t, but was app l icab le on ly to the portion exceed ing 10 per cent. January 22. The period for which forward exchange t ran sac t ions cou ld be concluded was extended f rom 180 days to 360 days. February 14. Global impo rt quo tas were published for 1979. The to tal quo ta va lues were increased by a p p r o x im a t e ly 20 per cent compared w i th those estab- lished for 1978, and the va lue of each item under quota was to increase by at least 10 per cent. February 27. The Directorate-General of Exports issued a re so lu t ion conce rn ing the "global export regime" (m o d i f y i ng the prov is ions of the reso lu t ion of J u ly 4, 1975, wh i ch was revoked) sp e c i fy ing the goods t h at could be exported to any coun t ry u n d er global export licenses and es tab l ish ing m a x im um permissible export credit periods. April 19. Quotas for 1979 were set for the impor- t a t i o n, free of impo rt du t ies, of a numb er of commodi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ties: bu tyl alcohol, 5,000 tons; chemical pu lp ( su l f a te or s o d i um ), 7,000 tons; chemical p u lp ( b i s u l f a t e ), 1,000 tons; specified iron and steel bars, 700 tons; and cer ta in other items. April 21. Royal Decree No. 921 /79 provided for across-the-board reductions of import du t ies for a period of three mon ths. For ad valorem rates the reduc t ions amounted to 10 per cent for du t ies f rom zero to 10 per cent inclusive, 20 per cent for du t ies f rom 10 to 20 per cent, 30 per cent for duties f rom 20 to 30 per cent, and 40 per cent for du ty rates exceeding 30 per cent. The reductions would be cumu la t ive. Specific du t ies wou ld be reduced by 15 per cent. (Royal Decree No. 125/79 of J a n u a ry 11, 1979, ex tend ing the reduction of impo rt duties provided by Royal Decree No. 1780/78, was repealed.) April 28. Royal Decree No. 922 /79 established a noninterest-bearing deposit requ i rement equal to 25 per cent of the value of all foreign loans and credits, both in foreign currency and fore ign accounts in pesetas, f rom foreign accounts of Spanish and fore ign firms and ind i- viduals resident in Spain. The deposit wou ld be repay- able to the borrower at the time of the loan amor t iza t ion in proportion to the amoun ts amortized. The require- ment would rema in in effect un t il October 31, 1979. May 3. The licensing requ i rement was t empo r a r i ly removed on imports listed under some 125 t a r i ff head- ings, the principal items affected being consumer goods, including automobiles. May 12. Regulations govern ing the impo r ta t ion of automobiles and specified components and spare parts of automobiles were modified. The p re fe ren t ial regu- lations which had been accorded, u n d er ce r ta in con- ditions, to automotive m anu f a c tu r e rs for the impo r- tation of specified components, were removed (R o y al Decree No. 1096/79); quotas ( f or which the amoun ts were to be announced at a la ter d a t e ), f ree of impo rt duties, were established for au tomob i les, spa rk and com- pression ign i t ion engines, gear boxes, and me tal com- ponents for automobiles (Royal Decree No. 1 0 9 7 / 7 9 ); import duties were reduced on specified par ts and spare parts of automobiles (Royal Decree No. 1098 /79 ). May 18. The b i la teral paymen ts ag reement w i th Colombia was term ina ted w i th effect f rom December 31, 1979. It was to be replaced by a reciprocal credit arrangement providing for the settlement in conver t ib le currencies of all transac t ions between the two coun t r ies. June 11. Royal Decree No. 1346/79 es tab l ished quotas free of import du t ies for the im p o r t a t i o n, u n t il December 3 1 , 1 9 7 9, of a n um b er of iron and steel prod- ucts, as fo l lows: iron bars (120,000 t o n s ), i ron slabs (150,000 ton s ), coils (100,000 t o n s ), and ro l led p la tes (2,000 tons ). June 26. A trade agreement was signed between the seven members of the European Free Trade Ag reement (EFTA) and Spain. The agreement, wh ich wou ld SPAIN requ i re p a r l i am en t a ry r a t i f i c a t ion, was designed to e l im i- na te progressively all ta r i f fs and other obstacles to goods traded be tween Spain and EFTA. The immed ia te effect of the ag reement was that the same level of trade l ibe ra l i- zation was achieved between the EFTA coun t r ies and Spain as app l ied to t rade between Spain and the EC by v i r tue of the agreement concluded in June 1970. July 6. The basic l im it on the sale of fo re ign exchange for t ravel abroad for tou r i sm was raised f rom the equ iv- a lent of Ptas 50,000 to the equ iva lent of Ptas 80,000 a person a j o u r n e y. The a l lowance for bus iness t ravel c o n t i n u ed to be Ptas 200,000 a person a jou rn ey, but the a n n u al m a x im um was increased f r om Ptas 400,000 to Ptas 1,400,000. There were no l im i ts on the p rov i- sion of exchange for t ravel Jor educa t ion or hea l th care. The v a l ue of notes of the B ank of Spain th at travelers could take out of the coun t ry was increased f rom Ptas 3,000 to Ptas 20,000, and the v a l ue of such notes t h at t rave le rs cou ld b r i ng in was raised f r om Ptas 50,000 to Ptas 100,000. July 24. Royal Decree No. 1783 /79 ex tended for a f u r t h er th ree -mon th period, u n t il October 26, 1979, the reduc t ion of impo rt du t ies provided by Royal Decree No. 9 2 1 / 79 (see en t ry for A p r il 21, above ). September 14. Royal Decree No. 2236/79 (pub l i sh ed in the Boletin Oficial del Estado of September 26, 1979) l ibe ra l ized direct and po r t fo l io inv e s tm en ts abroad by phys ical persons, Spanish or fo re ign, res id ing in Spain, and by Spanish j u r i d i c al persons. H en c e fo r th, Spanish res iden ts could make d i rect inves tmen ts abroad prov ided one of the f o l l ow i ng cond i t ions was m e t: ( 1) the share of the Span ish inv e s tm ent wou ld am o u nt to at least 20 per cent of the cap i tal of the fo re ign company; (2) the Span ish inves tor wou ld p a r t i c i p a te in the m an ag em ent of the fo r e ign c om p a ny or otherwise exercise an im p o r t a nt i n f l u e n ce over i t; or (3) the fo re ign company made use, exclusively or p redom inan t ly, of technology prov ided by the Span ish inves to r. Bank s, sav ings i n s t i- t u t i o n s, and in su r an ce compan ies cou ld pu rchase fo r e ign secur i t ies up to 10 per cent of the increase in t h e ir own resources. Span ish residents could pu rcha se f r e e ly f ix ed - in come secur i t ies d e n om i n a t ed in fo re ign exchange and issued by Spanish p r iva te and pub l ic insti- t u t i o ns and by i n t e r n a t i o n al o rg an i z a t ions in wh ich Spain was a member. September 14. Royal Decree No. 2295/79 modified the ru les gov e rn ing c red i ts ex tended to f inance the per iod of m a n u f a c t u re of exports. P r iva te b a n ks and the Banco Ex te r ior de Espana cou ld i n c l u de in the ir established i n v e s tm e nt coe f f ic ient such export credits g ran ted to Span i sh en te rp r i se s. Sav ings i n s t i t u t i o ns cou ld also i n c l u de such export c red i ts in t h e ir coeffi- c i ent of special regu la t ion loans, cred i ts cou ld not exceed 80 per cent of the v a l ue of the expo r t, and the period of v a l i d i ty could not exceed three mon ths for goods classified in Chap te rs 1-24 of the Customs Ta r i ff and six mon ths for those classified in Chap te rs 28-99. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN October 25. Royal Decree No. 2443/79 extended for a fu r ther three-month period, u n t il Janua ry 27, 1980, the reduc t ion of import duties provided by Royal Decree No. 921 /79 (see en t ry for A p r il 21, above ). October 27. An Order by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry of September 14, 1979 became effective. Under the order the requirement of prior authorization for cu r rent payments for invisibles was replaced by a general liberalization for listed transactions. Many cur- rent payments and t rans fe rs would be effected directly by authorized banks which were required to ver ify the au then t ic i ty of the transactions. Current payments and t r an s f e rs not specifically listed or for amounts in excess of cer ta in specified l im i ts required a prior declaration to the M in is t ry of Commerce and Tourism. Business enter- prises would be authorized to establish special "accounts for paymen ts abroad requiring justification" which would e l im ina te the need of ve r i fy ing the au then t ic i ty of the transac t ion up to specified amounts for defined periods. October 31. The 25 per cent noninterest-bearing deposit requ irement on foreign loans and credits from abroad was abolished (see en try for Ap r il 28, above). 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee. The authorities do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 28, 1979 were SLRs 15.43 and SL Rs 15.46, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates applicable to commercial banks' transactions with the ir customers are fixed daily for the six currencies in which the Central Bank deals.1 The Central Bank deals with commercial banks at the middle of the buy ing and selling rates applicable to commercial banks' telegraphic transfers. The Central Bank has established margins between buying and selling rates equivalent to SLRs 1.50 per US$100 and SLRs 3.00 per <£ stg. 100. Equivalent margins have been estab- lished for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Indian rupee, and the Japanese yen. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank stands ready to provide forward cover to commercial banks in U.S. dollars only. At the end of 1979 the Central Bank sold U.S. dollars forward at a premium over spot rate of SL Rs 2.50 per US$100 a month and purchased U.S. dollars forward at a dis- count against spot of SLRs 2.50 per US$100 a mon th. The option for delivery du r ing the max imum period of six months is permitted at marg ins of SLRs 1.00 per US$100 for the first month and SL Rs 2.00 per US$100 for the second month; this option may be exercised for two months only. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Sri Lanka has bilateral payments agreements2 must be made through the relevant special accounts. Payments in respect of trade w i th Pakistan also are effected through special 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. 2 People's Republic of China and Syrian Arab Republic. Ind ian rupees, Japanese yen, accounts. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (i.e., Bangladesh, Burma, Ind ia, Iran, Nepal, and Pak is tan) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petro- leum, na tu ral gas, and their products) must be effected in Asian mone tary un i ts or in the currency of a member of the Asian Clearing Union. For settlements with all other countries (except Rhodesia) payments for imports may be made in any fore ign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an External Rupee Account. Proceeds from exports must be received in designated foreign cur- rencies.3 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees f rom an External Rupee Account or in any designated foreign currency.3 Special procedures apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Sri Lanka by foreign banks, firms, and companies registered outside Sri Lanka and by persons residing abroad. A local credit to these accounts, which is tan tamount to approval for remittance abroad, and debits in respect of remit- tances abroad require the pr ior approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for holding funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them on account of pensions, income tax refunds, and profits and dividends without prior approval. Funds on blocked accounts may be used in Sri Lanka for certain invest- ments, subject to the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Proceeds for the liquidation of such invest- ments must be credited to blocked accounts. Remittances up to a max imum of SL Rs 100,000 are allowed f rom those accounts, without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is f u l ly transferable a f ter deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived from the exh ib i t ion of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained f u n ds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, inc lud ing the m ak ing of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka na t iona ls resident abroad are allowed to ma in ta in nonresident foreign currency accounts in Sri :J Aus t ra l ian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA L anka in conve r t ib le currenc ies .4 Credits to the accounts are l im i ted to the proceeds of remittances f rom abroad and money brought in to the coun try by ind iv idua ls at the t ime of arr iva l; in add i t ion, interest payments in the f o ur conve r t ib le currencies may be credited. These accoun ts may be free ly debited w i thout exchange control approval for paymen ts abroad or w i th in Sri Lanka in fore ign currency, wh i le the account holder is outside Sri Lanka, and for a period of three years f rom the date of a r r iv al of the account holder in Sri Lanka. Commercial banks ope ra t ing in Sri Lanka may estab- l ish a Foreign Currency Bank ing Un i t. These un i ts may accept t ime and demand deposits in any designated fo re ign cu r rency f rom nonresidents and f rom resident enterprises in the Greater Colombo Economic Commis- sion (GCEC ), the free trade zone, and they may extend loans and advances to any nonres ident and to any resi- dent en te rp r ise h a v i ng GCEC s ta tus in any designated foreign currency. In add i t ion, the fore ign currency b ank ing un i ts are allowed to accept t ime and demand deposits f rom and g rant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank for such purposes as may be approved by the Central Bank. imports and Import Payments All impor ts of goods o r ig in a t ing in or shipped f rom Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. Except for a list of specified imports, no pr ior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those subject to control for security reasons, precious metals, alcohol, and cer- ta in consumer goods, in addition to several ma jor food items, i.e., rice, flour, and wheat grains. Imports of specified items5 are restricted to govern- ment or state corporations; these are referred to as "reserved items." Prior approval procedures apply to a list of imports of capital goods. The Local Investment Advisory Committee approves imports relating to local investment, and the Foreign Inve s tment Advisory Com- mittee handles app l ica t ions re la t ing to foreign invest- ment. No pr ior approval is required if any single cons ignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000 in value. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Accounts, which were abolished for new credits as of November 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to l icens ing by the Con t ro l ler of Imports and Exports. Except for specified transac t ions, impor ts can be effected on ly against sight letters of credit. An author- ized dea ler may approve an application to rem it fore ign exchange or to credit a Nonres ident Account against an app l i c a t ion for the open ing of a letter of credit, and proof of a va l id impo rt license, when applicable. These r equ i r em en ts do not app ly where the va lue of a con- 4 In deutsche ma rk, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. •"These inc lude rice, wheat and wheat flour (but not corn flour), M a ld ive fish, dr ied fish f rom Ind ia and Pak is tan, dates, chillies, onions, potatoes, beedi leaves, petroleum products, films, consumer textiles, c au s t ic soda, tea chests, j u te hessian, mamoties, and matches. 370 s ignment is less than SL Rs 5,000 and is for the direct use of the importer. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles require exchange control permission. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange allow- ance of Ind ian rupees 2,000 an adult and Indian rupees 1,000 a child under 12, once every two years, for travel to the "Indian group of countries" (defined as Bangladesh, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, and Paki- s t a n ); the U.S. dollar or pound sterling equivalents of these amounts may be allowed. In addition, basic allowances of <£ stg. 500 for an adult, and <£ stg. 250 for a child under 12 years of age, are allowed every four years for travel to other countries. Additional foreign exchange is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval by the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange. Allowances for official travel require a certificate f rom the head of the relevant institution. Banks can also provide foreign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter f rom the cha i rman, director, partner, or sole proprietor of the company recommending the particular t r ip abroad. In those cases, exchange is allowed at the rate of US$45 a day, up to a max imum of 30 days, for the Ind i an group of countries and US$90 a day, also up to a m ax imum of 30 days, for other destinations. These l im i ts apply to chairmen, directors, partners, and sole proprietors of companies; other business executives may obtain up to US$30 a day for the Ind ian group of countries and up to US$65 a day, up to a maximum of 30 days, for other countries. Foreign exchange may be released for medical treat- ment abroad if any specialist, whether in government service or in private practice, certifies that equally effec- tive treatment is not available in Sri Lanka. The l im i ts for treatment in the Ind ian group of countries are <£ stg. 130 for an adu lt and ,£ stg. 65 for a child a mon th. For other destinations the monthly allowance is <£ stg. 500 for adults and <£ stg. 250 for children. Exchange for emergency travel for persons who have already used the basic allowance may be released without p r ior approval in amounts up to Ind ian rupees 750 to the I n d i an group of countries and «£ stg. 200 to other coun- tries. Au thor ized dealers are also allowed to sell foreign exchange for adver t is ing charges and for subscriptions and payments to in terna t ional tourist organizations. Payments for other types of travel allowance require p r ior approval by the Central Bank. The provision of foreign exchange and passage money for educational purposes at a recognized university or technical ins t i tu te at undergraduate or postgraduate levels, or for specialized technical t ra in ing not available in Sri Lanka and of use to the country, is allowed by the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is made available up to Ind ian rupees 3,600 a year for post- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution g radua te students, and I n d i an rupees 3,000 a year for unde rg radua te s tuden ts in the I n d i an g roup of coun tr ies, and £ stg. 1,500 a year for postgraduate students and £ stg. 1,200 a year for und e rg r adu a te s tuden ts in other coun tr ies, in add i t ion to a c tu al fees and a l lowances for books. I n d i an and P ak i s t ani na t iona ls a re pe rm i t ted to r em it for f am i ly m a i n t e n a n ce a m a x im um of two t h i r ds of the ir gross m o n t h ly income. Other fo re ign n a t i o n a ls are pe rm i t ted to rem it £ stg. 165 a m o n th for a w i fe, £ stg. 180 for a boy in a senior school, £ stg. 160 for a g irl in a senior school, £ stg. 125 for a boy in a j u n i or school, and <£ stg. 115 for a g i rl in a j u n i or school, up to a m a x im um of one t h i rd of the gross mon th ly income of the parent; any excess of the to tal of such rem i t tances over one t h i rd of gross m o n t h ly income is treated as an an t ic ipa to ry t ran s fer against the expatriate's en t i t lement to rem it assets at the t ime of repa t r ia t ion. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two th i rds of the ir gross mon th ly income. N a t ion a ls of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign exchange for f am i ly remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. v a lue are allowed on export orders secured th rough agents abroad. No remittances for insu rance on exports are pe rm i t ted; these must be covered w i th the In su rance Corpora t ion of Sri Lanka. Holders of f u n ds in Conver t ib le Rupee Accoun ts w i th credit balances ou ts tand ing as of November 15, 1977 may use these funds for travel expend i tu res and other cu r rent invisibles, subject to approval by the Con t ro l ler of Exchange. Banks are authorized, w i thout p r ior exchange control approval, to provide fore ign exchange for subscriptions to professional ins t i tu t ions, fees in respect of fo re ign exam ina t ions held in Sri Lanka, and paymen ts for the import of material for correspondence courses. Profit remittances and remittances of d iv idends to nonresident shareholders of rupee companies may be effected through commercial banks w i thout p r ior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of app l ica t ion, do not inc lude und is t r ibu ted profits f rom previous years, and do not inc lude t rans fe rs f rom reserves and profits resu l t ing f rom the sale of fixed assets. For in te r im profits, the fo l low ing documents should be fu rn i sh ed: ( 1) a certificate from the company's aud i tors con f i rm ing that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a p re l im i- nary computation of the remittable profits; (3) a tax clearance (on ly in the case of nonresident pa r tne r s) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate con f i rm ing that the beneficiary is resident abroad; ( 5) a schedule ind ica t ing the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount due to each. For final profits, submission of the fo l low ing documents is requ ired: (1) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss SRI LANKA account and the ba lance sheet for the year to wh ich the r em i t t a n ce relates; (2) a ce r t i f ica te f rom the aud i to rs c o n f i rm i ng th at the r em i t t an ce represents the f inal in s t a l l- m e nt of the prof i ts, declared in respect of the year u n d er re fe rence; and (3) a compu t a t ion of the rem i t tab le profits, and also the documen ts listed in ( 3 ), ( 4 ), and ( 5) requ i red for the r em i t t an ce of i n t e r im prof i ts. Rem i t tances of i n t e r im d iv id ends can be made sub- ject to the subm i s s ion of the fo l low ing documen ts: ( 1) a ce r t i f ica te f r om t he company's aud i to rs c o n f i rm i ng that the am o u nt to be rem i t ted represents o n ly d iv idends for the period to wh i ch it relates; (2) a ce r t i f ica t ion that the r em i t t an ce con s t i tu tes an i n t e r im d i v i d e nd based on the u n a u d i t ed accoun ts for the period; (3) a ce r t i f ica te c o n f i rm i ng that the b e n e f i c i a ry is a res ident outside Sri L a n k a; and (4) a schedu le i n d i c a t i ng the names of the bene f ic ia r ies and the net amoun ts due to them. The r em i t t a n ce of a final d iv id end requ ires the subm iss ion o f: ( 1) an a u d i t ed copy of the company 's prof it and loss account and the ba lance sheet for the year to wh ich the rem i t tance relates; (2) a ce r t i f ica te f rom the aud i tors c o n f i rm i ng th at the r em i t t an ce represents d i v i d e n ds on ly for the period to wh ich it relates* and the documen ts listed in (3) and (4) requ i red for the rem i t tance of i n t e r im d iv idend s. Non r e s id ent t rave le rs may take out foreign exchange dec la red to the cus toms at the t ime of en t ry. Conver- s ion is au tho r ized up to SL Rs 500. Res iden ts may take out fo re ign cu r rency notes and coin not exceeding £ stg. 20 a person (£ stg. 10 for ch i ld r en u n d er 12) out of the exchange au tho r ized for travel. A ll persons l e av ing Sri L a n ka may take out domestic currency notes not exceed ing SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expo r ts to Rhodes ia are proh ib i ted. Exports to coun t r ies w i th wh ich Sri Lanka m a i n t a i ns bilateral pay- men ts agreements are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. A number of specified items r equ i re p r ior l i c e n s i ng by the Con tro l ler of Impor ts and Exports. Exports of rubber to the People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, Po land, Rom an i a, and the U.S.S.R. are effected u n d er state t r ad ing. The State Gem Corporation has con t rol of exports of gems and jewe l ry. Exports of gems by the p r iva te sector requ ire pr ior approva l, and the Corpora t ion h and l es exports in the name of m in e rs who wish to export gems. Re-exports of n o nm o n e t a ry gold, s i lve r, d iamonds, and p l a t i n um a re allowed on ly in special c ircums tances. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports must be su r rende red, u s u a l ly w i t h in six mon ths of the date of sh ipm en t, except in the case of tea exports to London auc t ions when the prescribed period is f o ur months. Special a r rangemen ts app ly to exports made under trade and paymen ts agreements and to exports made to a member coun t ry of the As ian C lear ing Un ion. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler en ter ing Sri Lanka must declare his holdings, inc lud ing currency notes and coin. The amount of fore ign f u n ds t h at may be carried in to Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit in s t rumen ts is not restricted. The impo rt of Ind ian and Pak is tani currency is not perm i t ted. A person en te r ing Sri Lanka may b r ing in domestic cu r rency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coin may be brought in with- out restriction. Capital Inves tmen ts of fo re ign cap i tal are perm i t ted in projects wh ich are specifically approved by the Gove rnmen t, or, where the cap i tal is d rawn f rom a Blocked Account in Sri Lanka, in certain investments in Sri Lanka that have been approved by the Controller of Exchange, inc lud- ing shares of pub l ic companies incorporated in Sri Lanka. Proceeds f rom the sale or l iqu ida t ion of invest- ments in approved projects other than inves tmen ts made f rom Blocked Accounts may be repa t r ia ted, along w i th cap i tal appreciation. Proceeds f rom the sale or l iqu ida- tion of investments not approved by the Gove rnment may not be t rans fe r red abroad, but may be reinvested w i th the approval of the Con t ro l ler of Exchange; the cu r rent income thereon may be remitted abroad. New fore ign investments in Sri Lanka that are approved by the Foreign Inves tment Adv isory Com- m i t tee of the M in i s t ry of F inance and P l a n n i ng or the Greater Colombo Economic Commission are also granted special fac i l i t ies in respect of rem i t tances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not nor- m a l ly permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the p r inc ipa l, interest, or dividends are payable (e i ther con t rac tua l ly or at the option of the ho lder) in any fore ign currency must be declared to the Con t ro l ler of Exchange, and the sale or t r an s f er of such securities is allowed on ly w i th the perm iss ion of the Con tro l ler of Exchange. Au thor ized dealers may g r ant allocations to em ig ran ts upon presentation of appropriate documen ta t ion. At the t ime of depar ture, em igran ts can obtain passage to the country of m ig ra t ion by normal direct route and 20 per cent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Exchange equivalent to £ stg. 500 an adu lt and £ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the t ime of depar ture. Personal e f fec ts up to SL Rs 15,000 and jewe lry up to SL Rs 30,000 can be exported. The Depa r tment of Exchange Control can approve the t ran s fer of pensions in f u l l, or up to <£ stg. 100 a mon th, in c lud ing pension and other income, subject to p roduc t ion of an income-tax clearance certifi- cate. Repatriates leav ing Sri Lanka for residence in the coun t ry of the ir permanent domicile are permitted to t ran s fer assets representing their retirement f u n ds and a 372 reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Gove rnment f rom t ime to time. Persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they or ig ina l ly brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special prov is ions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and Ind ia, app ly to Ind ian fam i l ies re tu rn ing to Ind ia. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports w i th the approval of the Cen tral Bank. Du r ing 1979 the People's Bank imported nonmonetary gold for the use of the State Gem Corporation to be re-exported as gem-studded jewelry. In addition, the People's Bank sold gold in small quan t i t ies to licensed craftsmen and jewelers, and also to hospitals. Commercial imports of j ew e l ry and of other articles con ta in ing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1979 January 8. Authorized dealers were perm i t ted, with- out p r ior approval of the Central Bank, to debit non- res ident blocked accounts for local disbursements and to cred it them on account of pensions, income tax r e fund s, profits, and dividends. January 17. Import du t ies were raised on tobacco and alcoholic beverages. January 19. The Tea Board introduced a cash incen- t ive payment of SL Rs 0.25 per k i logram for exports of packeted tea and tea bags. January 29. Export du t i es on coconut produc ts were lowered in order to pe rm it increases in the domestic producer prices. February 9. The Depar tment of Exchange Control in fo rm ed authorized dealers that they were not to es tab l ish letters of credit for the importation of matches. The measure was reversed on February 23. Concur- ren t ly, the Special Impo rt License No. 1 of 1977 was amended to in c lude imports of matches in the list of commodities that required pr ior approval of the Con- t ro l l er of Exports and Imports. February 15. The Central Bank announced a range of measures aimed at the liberalization of the trade and payments system, as fo l lows: ( 1) The exchange alloca- t ion system for education abroad was extended to cover professional and technical education. In addition, sub- sistence allowances were increased f rom £ stg. 1,200 a year to £ stg. 1,500 a year for postgraduate s tud ies and f rom £ stg. 900 a year to £ stg. 1,200 a year for under- gradua te students. Allowances were also increased for l i v i ng expenses in the Ind ian group of countries. (2) The mon th ly exchange ava i lab i l i ty for medical treatment in the Ind ian group of countries was raised from SL Rs 2,000 (£ stg. 65) to £ stg. 130 for an adult and f rom SL Rs 1,000 (£ stg. 32) to £ stg. 65 for a child. The allowance for other countries was increased from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution £ stg. 300 to £ stg. 500 for an adu lt and f rom £ stg. 150 to £ stg. 250 for a ch i ld. ( 3) Exchange for emergency travel wou ld be granted to persons who had already u t i l ized the basic allowance: this add i t ional exchange a l loca t ion of up to Ind i an rupees 750 to the I n d i an g roup of coun tr ies and £ stg. 200 to other coun- tries could be granted w i thout p r ior approval. (4) Export and exchange f a c i l i t i es for em igran ts were l ibera l ized. The excess baggage a l lowance was increased f rom 10 per cent to 20 per cent of the passage fare. Exchange allow- ances for em ig ran ts were increased from £ stg. 300 to £ stg. 500 for adu l ts and ha lf of that amount for ch i ld ren under 12. Personal effects could be exported up to a total of SL Rs 15,000, and jewe l ry up to SL Rs 30,000, compared w i th SL Rs 5,000 and SL Rs 7,500, respectively, that had app l ied previously. (5) The max imum l im it for reconversion of unu t i l ized amounts of Sri Lanka rupees (prev ious ly SL Rs 500) was l i f ted, subject to ver if ica t ion of adequate documenta- tion of i n i t i al foreign exchange transactions. (6) Au tho r- ized dealers could t ran s fer amounts up to SL Rs 100,000 f rom nonres ident accounts, for specified purposes w i th- out prior Central Bank approval. (7) Cen tral Bank approval would no longer be required for the establish- ment of letters of credit where the coun t ry of sh ipment differed f rom the coun t ry of o r ig in or the coun try to which payment was to be made. ( 8) Au thor ized dealers were authorized to establish letters of credit beyond 180 days or to extend the va l id i ty of existing letters of credit beyond 180 days, where satisfactory evidence was fu rn i shed. (9) The special list of impor ters, previously ma in ta ined by the Central Bank, was abolished. (10) Approval was no longer necessary for t ranssh ip- ment of cargo intended for other ports, and for g i f ts of local products and commercial samples up to SL Rs 1,000 in va lue (prev ious ly SL Rs 550). February 15. Tha i land was transferred f rom the Ind ian group of countries to the other group of countries for the purposes of d e t e rm i n i ng basic travel allowances. February 16. Pr ior Central Bank approval was no longer required for i tems exported for exh ib i t ion and sale abroad and items sent for repa ir and re tu rn. Au thor ized dealers were also allowed to provide fo re ign exchange for adve r t is ing charges and for subscr ip t ions and paymen ts to in t e rn a t ion al tou r ist organ iza t ions. February 16. Pr ior Central Bank approval was no longer required for the rem i t tance by nonresidents, a f ter deduc t ion of taxes, of interest accrued to blocked accounts f rom fixed deposits. February 22. Import duties were modified on a w ide range of commodities. Rates were reduced for certain items, inc lud ing p r i n t i ng paper, television sets and parts, and were increased for some others, e.g., re f r ige ra to rs and elastic tape. April 4. Special Import License No. 1 of 1977 was mod if ied. Imports of c um in and fennel seed were SRI LANKA removed f rom the list of commodities that required prior approval by the Controller of Exports and Imports. April 17. Impo rt du ty on raw sugar was raised f rom SL Rs 2 to SL Rs 6 a k i logram. (The import duties on o r d i n a ry sugar rema ined unchanged at SL Rs 2 a k i l o g r am .) May 2. The Central Bank announced that commer- c ial banks opera t ing in Sri Lanka were authorized to establish Foreign Currency B ank ing Units. These units m ight accept t ime and demand deposits in any desig- na ted fo re ign currency f rom nonresidents and f rom resident enterprises in the GCEC, and they might extend fo re ign cu r rency loans and advances to any nonresident and to any resident enterprise ho ld ing GCEC status. In add i t ion, the Foreign Cu r rency Bank ing Un i ts would be allowed to accept t ime and demand deposits from, and g rant loans and advances in any designated fore ign cu r rency to, any other resident approved by the Central B a nk for such purposes as may be approved by the Cen t ral Bank. July 3 and July 11. Import duties were increased f rom 25 per cent to 35 per cent on a number of items inc lud ing certain fabrics. July 4. Import duties were e l im ina ted on bicycles, scooters, and motorcycles and their components. The impo rt of auto-rickshaws (three-wheeler scooters fre- qu en t ly used as tax i s) was removed f rom import licens- ing, and the du ty was reduced f rom 50 per cent to 12.5 per cent. July 4. The rates of specific export tax on bu lk and packeted tea were reduced f rom S LR s l 5 . 50 and S L Rs 13.30 a k i log ram, respectively, to SL Rs 10.50 a k i log ram. The export du ty on ins tant tea was reduced f r om SL Rs 20.00 to SL Rs 13.50 a k i logram. The gross auc t ion price at wh ich the 50 per cent ad valorem tax wou ld become e f fec t ive was raised from SLRs 10.15 to S L Rs 12.00 a k i log ram. Adm in is t ra t ion of the ad val- orem tax was also s imp l if ied by prov id ing for each fac- tory's tax l i a b i l i ty to be calculated on the basis of the weighted average price of all teas sold in each mon th; previously, the tax had been assessed on individual ship- ments. The cess on tea exports was raised f rom 70 cents to 90 cents a k i log ram. July 4. The special waiver of import du ty previously enjoyed by Salusala, the state textile company, was abolished, and the import du ty on most tex t i le products was raised f rom 25 per cent to 35 per cent; Salusala was directed not to import any more textiles d u r i ng 1979; and the price of imported cloth was raised by SL Re 1 a meter. July 24. The number of p roduct categories subject to prior export l icens ing was increased f rom 14 to 17. The add i t ional items were ivory and ivory products, automobiles first registered in Sri Lanka pr ior to 1945, and bone and bone products. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA September JO. Export du t ies were imposed on live fish and fish products at a rate of 5 per cent. October 11. Res tr ic t ions were imposed on the quan- t i ty of fab r ics and of ready-made garmen ts that m ight be received as g i f ts f rom abroad. An i n d i v i d u al would be pe rm i t ted to receive up to 12 yards of fab r ic at the no rmal rate of impo rt d u t y; g i f ts in excess of 12 yards would be subject to a pena l ty in add i t ion to the du ty. An ind iv idu al wou ld also be permitted to receive up to six items of ready-made garmen ts of each k ind; i tems in excess of the l im it would be assessed a fee rang ing f rom SL Rs 25 to SL Rs 150 an item. November 14. Export du t ies on cocoa, ca rdamom, and c i trone l la oil were abolished. Import duties were reduced on several commodities used by the hotel indu s t ry or by the leather and paper m a n u f a c t u r i ng indus tr ies. The import d u ty on ag r i cu l tu r al imp lemen ts was abolished. November 14. The average mon th ly auction price at which the ad valorem tax on tea exports become effec- tive was raised to SL Rs 16 a kilogram and the tax rate was reduced f rom 50 per cent to 20 per cent. November 22. The Central Bank increased the for- ward d iscount and premiums applicable to commercial banks' fo rwa rd exchange transac t ions in U.S. dollars with the Central Bank. The cost of one month's fo rwa rd cover was raised to SL Rs 3.00 per US$100 and the cost of cover for the m ax imum six-month period was raised to S L Rs 10.00 per US$100. November 28. The Cen tral Bank lowered the forward d iscount and p r em ium applicable to commercial banks' fo rwa rd exchange transac t ions in U.S. dollars w i th the Cen t ral B ank. The cost of one month's forward cover was reduced to SL Rs 2.50 per US$100. November 30. The export of raw coconuts, copra, and coconut oil in b u lk was banned for the rema inder of 1979, and the export of desiccated coconut for Decem- ber was reduced f rom 150,000 bags to 75,000 bags. Fu r the rmo re, Sri Lankans t rave l ing abroad were pro- h ib i ted from t ranspo r t ing coconut and coconut oil out of the country. December 4. The Tea Board announced an increase in the cash paymen ts for exports of packeted tea and tea bags to SL Rs 1.50 and SL Rs 2.50 a kilogram, respectively, to be implemented retroactively to Ju ly 3, 1979. December 6. The Export Development Board announced a cash incentive scheme to encourage exports of rubber products with a higher value-added content th an crude rubber. In i t ia l ly, the scheme covered only exports of household gloves for which an exporter would be en t i t led to a cash payment of SL Rs 0.19 a pair. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. do l l a r, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, at LSd 1 = US$2. On December 31, 1979 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar quoted by the Bank of Sudan ( the cen tral b a n k) were LSd 0.49925 and LSd 0.50075, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currenc ies1 are posted, w i th da i ly quotations based on the buy ing and se l l ing rates for these currencies against the U.S. do l lar in New York. There are two exchange markets. About 95 per cent of exports, 60 per cent of impo r ts, o f f ic ial transactions in invisibles, cash loans, and debt service paymen ts are effected at the off ic ial market rate of LSd 1 = US$2, wh i le all other transactions take place at the parallel market rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25. Administration of Control Exchange con trol is adm in i s t e r ed by the Bank of Sudan, w i th the assistance of the authorized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the l i c en s ing of impo r ts and exports (except those of go ld) are the responsibility of the M in i s t ry of Cooperation, Com- merce, and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses pe r ta in ing to transac t ions in the official market must be validated by the Bank of Sudan; registration fo rms pe r ta in ing to transactions in the parallel market are validated by commercial banks. Import paymen ts and other foreign paymen ts are approved w i t h in the f ramewo rk of an a n n u al fore ign exchange budget d r awn up by the M in i s t ry of Finance and Na t ional Economy, in coordination with the Bank of Sudan and the M i n i s- try of Cooperation, Supply, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries —except Egypt, w i th which Sudan m a in t a ins a b i la teral payments agreement —and all monetary areas ( the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresi- dent account or in any fore ign currency, wh i le receipts f rom the "convertible area" may be accepted in Suda- nese pounds f rom any nonres ident account or in any conver t ib le currency. Payments to Egypt for gasoline, Suez Canal dues, and 30 per cent of the savings of Egyp t ian teachers wo rk ing in Sudan must be made in convertible currencies, wh i le all other payments are settled th rough the bilateral account. Nonresident Accounts Foreign d ip loma ts are allowed to m a i n t a in accounts in Sudanese pounds designated as nonresident accounts. These accounts must be credited w i th convertible cur- 1 A u s t r i an schillings, Belgian f ranc s, deutsche m a r k, French francs, I t a l i an l i re, K uw a i ti d ina r s, Lebanese pounds, Ne the r lands guilders, pounds s ter l ing, Saudi Arab ian riyals, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f ranc s, and U.A.E. d i rhams. rencies. Other foreign personnel working in Sudan under cer ta in contracts, as well as foreign nationals re s id ing in Sudan, may m a i n t a in resident current or savings accounts in Sudanese pounds. Demand deposits denom ina ted in convertible currencies may be opened for fore ign ind iv idua l s, companies, and organizations resident abroad, Sudanese nationals wo rk ing abroad, and expatriates, other than Egyptian nationals. Blocked Accounts are ma in ta ined by former residents. Ea rn ings acc ru ing to these accounts may be used w i th in Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to l im i ts established in each case by the General Adm in i s t r a t ion for Foreign Exchange of the Bank of Sudan. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons and others are not being licensed. Permitted impo r ts gene ra l ly are licensed or accepted for registra- t ion in accordance w i th allocations under the foreign exchange budget. Certain imports are permitted only when acceptable foreign f inanc ing is obtained. Sugar and wheat are imported only by a state agency. For goods that require ind iv idual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the M in is try of Coopera- t ion, Commerce, and Supply but for those goods that are impor ted th rough the official market the licenses mu st be validated by the General Adm in i s t ra t ion for Foreign Exchange. For imports that are settled through the parallel marke t, the licenses must be validated by commercial banks. Import insurance normally must be t ak en out w i th local companies. Most private sector impor ts are subject to an advance deposit of 2 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable before validation, if the impo rt is financed by commercial banks. Goods that otherwise would be subject to the advance deposit requ i rement are exempt when financed w i th suppliers' credit of at least two years' ma tu r i ty, provided that the am o u nt of the transac t ion is at least LSd 500,000. If a le t ter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requ i res a cash m a rg in of between 10 per cent and 30 per cent. In practice, for many goods whose impor- ta t ion the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent m a rg in deposit must be made. A stamp duty of LSd 5 is levied on the application form for each transfer in respect of pr iva te sector imports. Most imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent ad valorem. There has been an accumu la t ion of arrears on paymen ts for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require approval from the General Adm in i s t ra t ion for Foreign Exchange, but 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN payments for interest, commissions, and travel allow- ances requ i re on ly the approval of commercial banks. Remittances are permitted for fam i ly maintenance (up to LSd 360 a person a y e a r ), educa t ional expenses (up to LSd 1,680 a student a year for Western Europe, in addition to t u i t i on fees; s tudy in Aus t ra l ia, Canada, Japan, and the United States is exempt from this ce i l ing), and for certain other purposes. Allowances for tourist travel to countries other than Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a max imum of LSd 300 a person a year (LSd 150 for a c h i l d ). Exchange for travel must be purchased at the parallel ma rket exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25. Salaried foreign na t iona ls not pe rmanen t ly resident in Sudan, except Egyptian teachers (who are allowed to remit only 30 per cent of their salaries), are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Shipping charges, insu rance prem iums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. The remittance of income accruing from blocked assets in Sudan ( in c lud ing income f rom Blocked Accounts) is prohibited. The exportation of Sudanese currency over LSd 20 is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable for v ir tua l ly all payments for invisibles. The du ty is LSd 5 on applications for remittances of profits and dividends, for other transfers, and for foreign exchange for busi- ness travel; LSd 2 on applications for foreign exchange for tourism; and f rom LSd 0.25 to LSd 1 on applications for remittances for other purposes. Certain payments for invisibles are in arrears. *x Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. With the exception of cotton, gum arabic, and livestock, all exports require a license. Exporters must submit an export form to and obtain approval from an authorized commercial bank. All commodi- ties are subject to m in imum export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated w i th in four mon ths f rom the date of shipment; with the exception of proceeds from cotton exports, authorized dealers are allowed to retain 75 per cent of export proceeds for import financing. The balance must be surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the ship- p ing documents; in other cases a surrender date is usua l ly specified. Some major export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. Exports of some commodities have been prohibited for supply reasons. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad may open accounts denominated in Sudanese pounds or foreign exchange accounts by remittance of foreign exchange 376 wh ich is converted at a rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25. Re t ran s fer abroad of such amounts is freely permitted. Moreover, the foreign exchange may be utilized for pur- chases in du ty - f ree shops in Sudan. The same facilities are granted to certain groups in Sudan who earn foreign exchange abroad, inc lud ing lawyers, engineers, owners of consulting houses, chartered accountants, pensioners rece iv ing pensions in foreign currencies, employees of in te rna t ional and regional institutions in Sudan with earn ings in foreign exchange, Sudanese diplomats and missions paid in foreign exchange, and Sudanese nation- als who acquire properties abroad by inheritance or in other ways. Receipts from abroad in respect of tourism must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. All other receipts from invisibles may be retained in fo re ign exchange accounts. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coin of other countries but the importation of more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency is forbidden. Capital Incom ing foreign capital for specified investment may be registered and may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. All new investment is converted at the parallel ma rket rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25. Emigrants of Sudanese na t iona l i ty may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon final departure from Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in Sudan domestically produced gold. With these excep- tions, residents other than the monetary authorities and au thor ized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu i re gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Cooperation, Commerce, and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- t r ial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reimported. Changes during 1979 March 27. The special incentive rate for remittances by Sudanese nationals abroad was changed from LSd 1 = US$1.75 to LSd 1 = US$1.50. May 28. A defense tax of 5 per cent ad valorem on the c.i.f. va lue was imposed on all imported goods except sugar and imports by the diplomatic com- m u n i t y. July J. It was announced that receipts from exports of cotton would be entitled to the exchange subsidy of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 25 per cent available to all other exports, resu l t ing in an effective rate of LSd 1 = US$2. September 16. The "nil value" licensing scheme for imports, all barter trade (except for border trade), all exchange taxes and subsidies, and the special incen- tive exchange rate applicable to both remittances of Sudanese residents abroad and certain other private invisibles were abolished. September 16. The mu l t ip le exchange rate system was replaced by a dual exchange market —the official market and the parallel market. The official rate was established at LSd 1 = US$2 and the parallel market rate was set at LSd 1 = US$1.25. September 16. Residents and nonresidents in Sudan SUDAN were permitted to open accounts denominated in foreign exchange w i th Sudanese banks. October 3. Ag r icu l tu ral equipment, harvesters and spare parts, tractors, fertilizers, insecticides, seeds, ju te sack ing, printed material, and raw materials for local indu s t ry (except for materials used in the manu fac tu re of cigarettes or alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages) were exempted from the defense tax (see en try for May 28, above). Imports for certain other industries were also exempted under agreements w i th the Govern- ment of Sudan s t ipu la t ing that these imports would be exempted f rom p reva i l ing and fu tu re taxes un t il comple- t ion of the work that had been agreed upon. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Suriname is the Su r iname Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. do l la r, the intervention currency, at Sur. f. 1.78876 = US$1. On December 31, 1979 the official buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar were Sur. f. 1.77 and Sur. f. 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other currencies l are set da i ly by the Central Bank on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in Ams te rdam and the central rate for the U.S. dollar in Su r iname, net of any com- missions. There is no exchange ma rket in Sur iname. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Suriname fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control In principle, all foreign exchange transactions are subject to license, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The au tho r i ty to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of this au thor i ty, and issues licenses mainly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has authorized the Director of Economic A f f a i rs to issue import and export licenses and has empowered the Central Bank to provide foreign exchange for import paymen ts (subject to presentation of an import license); the la t ter au tho r i ty is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide foreign exchange for specified cu r rent paymen ts w i thout requ i r ing an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward t ran s fe rs of fo re ign exchange that do not result f rom borrow ing abroad; the t a k i ng up of foreign loans is subject to approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not perm i t ted to sell foreign exchange w i thout the subm i s s ion of an exchange license by the remitter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Sur iname gu i lde rs between Su r iname and foreign coun tr ies other than the Ne ther lands An t i l les are not perm i t ted; they mus t, in general, be made in conver t ib le currenc ies ,2 a l though paymen ts to 1 Deutsche m a rk, French f ranc s, N e th e r l ands gu i lde rs, and pounds sterling. 3 Au s t ra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian sch i l l ing s, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish k ron e r, deu tsche ma rk, East Carib- bean dollars, French francs, G u y a na dollars, I ta l ian l i r e, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, T r i n i d ad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 378 and f rom the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Ne the r lands An t i l les guilders or Suriname guilders. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars w i th domestic banks; no overdraf ts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may free ly open accounts in Sur iname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn and, for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sur. f. 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresidents drawing pensions f rom the Government or under company plans. Transfers of up to Sur. f. 1,500 a month may be effected under a general permit, and additional amounts may be transferred under a special permit. Nonresident guilders or foreign currency accounts may not be credited w i th Suriname banknotes mailed f rom abroad or w i th the foreign currency equivalent. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.3 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Impor ts of a few other commodities are prohibited f rom non-EC sources for protective reasons and are subject to quo ta when o r ig ina t ing in EC countries; these i n c l u de coffee (roasted and un roa s ted ), sugar, powdered m i l k, bu t ter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal f u r n i t u r e. The impo rt of proh ib i ted goods may be allowed when supp l ies are not ava i lab le in Suriname. Ano ther g roup of commodities is subject to quota, irrespec t ive of o r ig in; these inc lude matches, prefabri- cated wooden houses, ce r ta in types of women's wear, ce r ta in footwear, and ce r ta in wooden or cane f u r n i t u r e. Special cond i t ions are attached to the impo rt of copra, rice, bu t ter (in packs of over 500 g r am s ), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 g r am s ), veneer, and fu rn i tu re that is on ne i ther the prohibited nor the restricted list; the impo rt of these commodities also is restricted for protective reasons, but the issuance of licenses is subject to adm in i s t r a t ive decision rather than to quota. A gove rnment agency, the Su r iname Central Import Service, acts as the sole impo r ter of certain staple :J However, two specified m i n i ng companies do not need licenses for th e ir own impo rt r equ i r em en t s. S im i lar exemp t ions may be g ran ted to fo re ign companies for t h e ir indu s t r i al ac t iv i t ies in Su r iname, provided th at they pay for t h e ir imports f rom the ir own fo re ign exchange holdings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foods tuffs. A ll o ther impo r ts a re licensed f ree ly f rom any source. The import license serves as an au tho r i z a t ion for payment, exchange being made available upon presen- tation of the license. Most licenses have a v a l i d i ty of six months, w i th in wh ich period the goods mu st be landed and paid for. A statistical fee of 1.5 per cent is levied on all imports, i n c l u d i ng impo r ts of gold. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most inv is ib les requ ire ind iv idual licenses. The commerc ial banks and the General Post Office have au thor i ty to provide fo re ign exchange up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month on account of certain services (b ank charges, legal fees, membe rsh ip dues, copy and patent r igh ts, and so f o r t h ); up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month for adve r t is ing expenses and paymen ts for books; up to Sur. f. 300 a year f rom each rem i t ter in respect of gifts, subject to a l im it of Sur. f. 300 a year on any one beneficiary's receipt of g if ts f rom Surinamese residents; and up to Sur. f. 200-300 a mon th for the support of each member of the remitter's own f am i ly in the Ne ther lands An t i l l es or the Ne the r lands, subject to a l im it of Sur. f. 600-900 a mon th for a f am i ly u n it ( fam i ly rem i t tances up to the same amoun ts to o ther countries require a license, which is granted upon app l i- c a t ion ). The basic exchange allowance to res iden ts for t r av el is Sur. f. 750-2,500 a person for each t r ip (50 per cent of these amoun ts for children under 14), depend ing on the de s t ina t ion ;4 the au thor ized bank must en ter on the travel ticket the amount of fore ign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being perm i t ted un t il three days before depa r tu re. Bona fide applications for larger amoun ts of exchange for travel purposes are approved on a case-by-case basis. Travelers may take out Sur. f. 100 in Su r iname currency. The export by resident travelers of fo re ign bankno tes is l im i ted to the amount of the ir travel allowance. Non- resident travelers may freely purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equ iva lent of Sur. f. 250. Nonresident travelers may also f ree ly take out any foreign banknotes they brought in, provided that amoun ts in excess of Sur. f. 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or deprec ia t ion of direct investments, may be made if an app l ica t ion, supported by an auditor's report, is du ly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter 4 Sur. f. 1,500 for the Caribbean area and Cen tral and Sou th Ame r ica except Guy an a, French Gu iana, and Venezue la; Sur. f. 750 for G u y a na and French Gu iana; Sur. f. 2,500 for the Un i ted States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sur. f. 2,000 for the rest of the world. SURINAME u n d e r t a k es to su r render the fore ign currency proceeds to an au tho r ized b a nk w i t h in s ix mon ths of sh ipmen t. Export licenses for ca t t le, pigs, f resh beef and pork, and p l a n t i ng ma ter ia ls are granted only with the advice of the Director of Ag r icu l tu re, An im al Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted and t h at of rice is sub ject to special regulations. Ce r ta in expo r t ing compan ies have received special permission f rom the Foreign Exchange Board to m a in t a in current accoun ts in fo re ign cu r rency w i th the ir parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and re- ceipts ( i n c l u d i ng export proceeds). All exports are sub- ject to a s ta t is t ical fee of 1.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be su r rende red to an authorized b ank. Travelers may b r ing in fo re ign cu r r en cy w i t h o ut l im it and up to Sur. f. 100 in domestic cu r rency; resident travelers must su r render on r e t u rn to Su r in ame any fo re ign cu r r en cy in excess of the e q u i v a l e nt of Sur. f. 500. Capital A decision of Sep tember 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the t r an s f er abroad of cap i tal proceeds f rom the sale to residents or the l iqu ida- t ion of f u l ly or p a r t ly fo re ign -owned companies or other fo rms of enterprise. The decision covers inves tmen ts made by non res iden ts w i th fore ign capital a f ter Ju ly 31, 1953. It also provides for the a n n u al t ran s fer of profits and for the t r a n s f er at any t ime of the fore ign exchange ( i n c l u d i ng l o a n s) imported by the nonres ident en trepre- n e ur for the company's use. Profits must be t rans fe r red w i th in three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become p a rt of the firm's wo rk ing cap i tal and may on ly be t r an s f e r r ed in a n n u al i n s t a l lm e n ts of 20 per cent. An I n v e s tm e nt Law prov ides add i t ion al incen t ives for p r i v a te inv e s tm en t. The Foreign Exchange Board g ran ts licenses on app l i- ca t ion for t ran s fe rs abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a m a x im um of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more t h an Sur. f. 25,000, f u r t h er annual t rans fe rs are per- m i t ted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows em ig ran ts (heads of f am i ly) to t r an s f er in fo re ign exchange the equ iva lent of Sur. f. 5,000 in a l ump sum, and subsequently Sur. f. 5,000 a year. The head of a repa t r ia t ing fam i ly is permitted to t ran s fer the equivalent of Sur. f. 10,000 p lus 10 per cent of his total taxab le ea rn ings in Su r iname accrued d u r i ng his period of residence; if his Su r inamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be t r an s f e r r ed at a rate of Sur. f. 10,000 a year, or at a h igher ra te when th is is necessary to ensure t h at the en t i re ba lance is released w i th in ten years. Subject to cer ta in requ iremen ts, residents may pur- chase or se ll in specified coun t r ies r> Surinamese cor- •r- Be lg ium, Canada, France, Federal Repub l ic of G e rm any, Italy, Luxembou rg, N e t h e r l a n d s, N e t h e r l a n ds An t i l les, U n i t ed K ingdom, and Un i t ed States. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME porate shares that have been des igna ted as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for inves tment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct inves tmen ts abroad when it is considered th at Sur inamese interests w i ll benef i t. A ll borrowing f rom nonres iden ts by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transac t ions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those und e r t ak en for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. The Central Bank, how- ever, permits them to place part of their liquid f u n ds abroad; in add i t ion, banks have received a general license to place abroad at short term U.S. dollars corresponding to balances in non res ident U.S. do l lar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell on ly to au thor ized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Cen tral Bank at S u r . f. 2,110 a k i log ram fine for bars of at least 10 k i log rams, or at S u r . f. 1.80 a gram for unwo rked gold with an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of °4%M)o . ° Au thor ized gold buye rs are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at f ree ly agreed prices to the pub l ic for indus tr ial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other fo rms of unworked gold, w i th the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local produc t ion does not meet demand for i n d u s t r i al purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, wh ich it sells to authorized gold buyers. A gold coin w i th a face value of Sur. f. 100 is legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Sur iname for num isma t ic and investment purposes; au tho r ized banks may free ly negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. Residents other t h an the mone ta ry authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indus tr ial and dental users are not allowed w i t h o ut special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other t h an jewe l ry require exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Board; such licenses are not normally g ran ted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry authorities, producers of gold, and i n d u s t r i al users. Residents arr iv ing f rom abroad, however, may f ree ly b r ing in gold, subject to declaration, and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank w i th in 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Impo r ts of gold coin are du ty free and those of unwo rked gold are subject to a du ty of Sur. f. 0.0375 a g ram, irrespective of origin. The general tar iff for gold o rnamen ts is 60 per cent ad valorem, but those of EC origin are subject to duty at 50 per cent ad valorem. Impo r ts and exports of all forms of gold are subject to the statistical fee of 1.5 per cent; in addition, imports are subject to a l icens ing fee of 0.5 per cent. 6 These amoun ts are to be adjusted in accordance w i th the revision of the official U.S. dollar price per troy ounce. By the end of 1979 this had not yet been done. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Swaz i land is the L i l ang eni ( p l u r al em a l ang en i ), wh ich is pegged to the South A f r i c an r and at E 1 = R 1. U.S. do l lar rates quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland are based on the f loa t ing rate of the South A f r i c an rand against the U.S. do l la r. B u y i ng and se l l ing ma rg in s, as in South A f r i c a, are held w i t h in 0.25 per cent (US$0.0029) of the m idd le rate. On December 31, 1979 the official b u y i ng and s e l l ing rates were US$1.2105 and US$1.2085, respectively, per E 1. Rates are also quoted for the deutsche m a r k, the French f ranc, the pound s te r l ing, and the Swiss f r a nc based on the London and New York ma rket quo ta t ions for these currencies against the U.S. do l lar, and for the Kenya s h i l l i ng and the Zamb ian kwacha based on th e ir fixed peg to the SDR. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There is also a free ly floating "financial" rand, which is the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r ican securities and other investments in Swaziland owned by nonresidents, capital remittances by em ig ran ts and imm ig ran t s, and approved outward cap i tal t ran s fe rs by residents. The rate is usually at a d iscount f rom the commercial rand rate. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland forms part of the Rand Mone ta ry A rea, wh ich is a single exchange control te r r i to ry comp r i s ing Lesotho, South Afr ica, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments w i t h in the Rand Monetary Area and, in pr inc ip le, these are not controlled. In re la t ion to coun tr ies outside the Rand Monetary Area, Swaz i land applies exchange controls that are generally s im i lar to those of South Africa. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the M in is try of Finance controls all ex ternal cu r rency t rans- actions. Transactions w i th Rhodesia, whether direct or ind irec t, may not be undertaken pend ing the repeal of the Un i ted Na t ions (Southern Rhodesia) Act. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of a customs un ion w i th Botswana, Lesotho, and South A f r ica, and there are no import restrictions on goods or ig ina t ing in any coun t ry of the customs un ion. Imports f rom South A f r i ca do not require licenses and include an u n k n own q u a n t i ty of goods o r ig ina t ing outside the customs u n i o n. In so f ar as Swaziland imports goods direct f rom countries out- side the customs un ion, such imports are usua l ly licensed in conform i ty with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import paymen t. There are no bilateral payments a r r ang em en t s. A ll imports in to the customs un ion, except those covered by a GATT b ind ing, are subject to an impo rt su rcha rge of 7.5 per cent.1 Exports and Export Proceeds Ce r ta in exports are subject to licensing, m a i n ly for revenue and s im i l ar reasons, but most exports are sh ipped w i t h o ut license to or th rough South A f r ica. Payments for and Proceeds from4nvisibles Paymen ts to nonresidents for current transactions, wh i le subject to control, are not no rma l ly restricted. A u t h o r i ty to app rove some types of cu r rent payments is delegated to au tho r ized dealers up to established limits; the basic exchange allowance for tour ist travel is the equ iv a l ent of E 3,000 in a calendar year for an adult and E 1,200 for a child; there is a sma l ler annual alloca- t ion for t ravel to ne ighbo r ing countries. Capital Inw a rd c ap i t al t r a n s f e rs should be properly docu- men ted in order to fac i l i ta te the subsequent repatriation of in teres t, d iv idend s, profits, and other income. No person may borrow fore ign currency or register shares in the n ame of a non res iden t, or act as a nom inee for a n o n r e s i d e n t, w i thout p r ior approval. A p p l i c a t i o ns for most ou tward t rans fe rs of capital are considered on th e ir mer i ts. Blocked ema langen i, apart f rom be ing released to em ig ran ts through the financial rand in specified ins tances, may be invested in quoted secu r i t ies and o ther such inves tmen ts as may be app roved by the Cen t ral Bank. Changes during 1979 February 5. Swaz i land adopted the changes intro- duced i n to the exchange system of South A f r ica, whereby ( 1) the U.S. do l lar rates wou ld be based on the floating ra te of the South A f r i c an rand against the U.S. dollar, and (2) the securities rand was converted into a financial rand. The financial rand would be available to non res iden ts for the purchase of a wider variety of financial assets t h an was the case with the securities rand. March 29. The common import surcharge levied by the customs u n i on was reduced f rom 12.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. May 6. The a l loca t ion of fo re ign exchange for tourist travel was increased by 50 per cent to E 3,000 a year. July 20. The Mone tary Au tho r i ty of Swaziland changed its name to the Central Bank of Swaziland. August 14. The Central Bank discontinued the issue of Five-Year Non res ident Bonds. 1 The su r ch a rge was abolished by South A f r ica w i th effect from March 1980. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. In manag ing the exchange rate of the k ron a, the Sveriges R iksbank ( the cen tral b a n k) is guided by a trade- weighted index based on a basket of 15 cu r renc ies of Sweden's most impo r t ant t r a d i ng pa r tne rs. In cons truc- t i ng the index the Swedish au tho r i t i es established two criteria to be met by each coun t ry and cu r rency inc luded in the basket: ( 1) the coun try had to account for at least 1 per cent of Sweden's to tal fore ign trade (exports p lus impor ts) d u r i ng 1972-76 and (2) each cu r rency had to be quoted d a i ly on the fore ign exchange market in Stockholm. The weights are propor t ional to Sweden's foreign trade w i th each of the countries whose currencies are included in the index, w i th the exception that the weight of the U.S. dollar has been doubled and that of the o ther currencies adjusted accordingly. To take account of changes in average trade shares the weights are adjusted each year (on Ap r il 1) on the basis of trade statistics for the last five ca lendar years. At present, the weights are as follows (base period 1974-78): Deutsche m a rk U.S. dollar Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish m a rkka French frjmc Ne ther lands gu i lder Belgian f r anc Italian lira Japanese yen Swiss f r anc Aus t r ian sch i l l ing Spanish peseta Canadian dollar Total 17.0 16.0 13.1 10.1 9.5 7.1 5.4 5.2 3.7 3.4 2.6 2.5 1.9 1.3 1.2 100.0 The index va lue of 100 represents the benchma rk for the effective va lue fo l low ing the deva lua t ion on August 29, 1977. The exchange rate is managed so as to a l low on ly l im i ted f luc tua t ions around th is benchma rk. An average of the d a i ly index values is published weekly by the R ik sbank. The ma rket b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for spot transactions in the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, on December 28, 1979 were SK r4 .1460 and SKr 4.1470, respectively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currenc ies are established on the basis of the cross rates in in te rna t ional markets. Forward market rates are le ft to the interplay of market forces. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. 382 Au tho r ized banks may buy from and sell to other au tho r ized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis aga inst ano ther fore ign currency or Swedish kroner. They may also purchase foreign currencies, spot, from fo re ign b anks and other nonresidents against any for- e ign cu r r en cy or Swedish kroner credited to an Ex ternal K ronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, b e l ow ). They may sell fore ign currencies, spot, to fo re ign banks and other nonresidents against any other fore ign cu r rency or Swedish kroner debited to an Ex te rnal K ronor Accoun t. Au tho r ized banks may conclude with residents other t h an banks forward exchange transactions covering cu r r ent paymen ts and authorized payments for u n l im- ited periods in respect of receipts for exports, f re igh t, and char ter services, and of payments for imports, f r e igh t, and cha r ter services, for periods not exceeding ( 1) 12 months in respect of repayment of loans abroad for ref inanc ing of credits granted in Swedish kroner in connec t ion w i th Swedish exports and (2) 6 months in respect of o ther receipts and payments. Authorized b a n ks may buy f rom and sell to other authorized banks, fo rwa rd, any foreign currency against another foreign cu r rency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may und er ce r ta in cond i t ions conclude forward transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months w i th foreign b ank s. Such transac t ions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 mon ths if made in cover of fo rwa rd transactions w i th residents. Sweden fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the R iksbank th rough its Exchange Control Board. The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Governing Board of the R ik sb ank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All cu r rent payments (as defined in Sweden's ex- change control legislation) are exempt from exchange con trol provided that they are made through an author- ized bank in accordance w i th the currency prescriptions issued by the R ik sb ank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve v a r ious payments that are subject to exchange con tro l. Impo rt and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Commerce, except those for food- s tu f f s, wh ich are issued by the National Agr icu l tural M a rk e t ing Board, and those for gold and gold alloys, wh ich are issued by the R iksbank. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to and f rom foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution any External Kroner Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kroner with authorized banks in Swe- den: External Kroner Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts, Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden, and Foreign Wages Accounts. External Kronor Accounts may be held by residents of all countries. These accounts may be credited with transfers from other External Kronor Accounts, with authorized payments to foreign countries by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other External Kronor Account and for authorized payments to resi- dents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged in to any foreign currency. External Kronor Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held by persons who have been residents of Sweden but became nonresidents a f ter em i- grating. The accounts may be credited with amortiza- tion payments on loans granted before em igra t ion and interest accrued to, and earnings f rom, assets in Sweden and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holders. The sale of unlisted Swedish securities, however, requires authorization. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for paymen ts in Sweden for expenses related to the adm in is t ra t ion and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; maintenance expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly; m inor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; gifts to, and for the support of, per- sons domiciled in Sweden; amortization and interest payments on loans raised by an emigrant before emi- grating; and purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kroner, and of real estate. Foreign Exchange Accounts1 are held in fore ign cur- rencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th authorized payments in foreign currencies due to the account ho lder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for mak ing authorized payments in fore ign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers f rom abroad of foreign currencies, or t rans fer f rom External Kronor Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for t rans- fers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish k rono r. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an 1 Residents may also ma in ta in Foreign Exchange Accounts in fo re ign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. They may not bear in teres t, unless the R iksbank gives special permission. SWEDEN account holder and w i th accrued interest; they may be used for w i thdrawa ls in kronor in Sweden. Foreign Wages Accounts are intended to facilitate payment of salaries, wages, and other remunerations of persons sent abroad from Sweden and employed by Swedish employers. The accounts may be opened with authorized banks w i thout pr ior determination of resi- dential status. However, residents may use the funds on these accounts when abroad only for maintenance expenses and purchases for personal use while a non- resident may use such funds for current payments in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agr icu l tural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from coun tr ies other than A lban ia, Bulgaria, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Repub l ic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and .Viet Nam. How- ever, most imports f rom these countries are liberalized. Some imports f rom Japan require licenses. Imports of ce r ta in t ex t i le produc ts f rom some coun tr ies and terri- tories (Hong Kong, India, the Repub l ic of Korea, Macao, Ma lays ia, Ma l ta, M au r i t i u s, Pak is tan, the Ph i l ipp in e s, Po r tuga l, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Tha i land, and Yugo s lav ia) are l im i t ed th rough special arrange- men ts. In add i t ion, impor ts of rubber boots from any c o u n t ry other than member countries of the EC or the EFTA are subject to global quota restrictions, and impo r ts of specified textiles and garments f rom any source other th an EC or EFTA countries, as well as impor ts of most iron and steel products from all coun- tries, are subject to impo rt l icens ing for surveillance purposes. Payments for imports, inc lud ing normal advance paymen ts, may, as cu r rent payments, be made w i thout perm iss ion th rough authorized banks and w i thout the f o rm a l i ty of p resen t ing an import license. If the condi- t ions specified for cu r rent paymen ts (see section on Paymen ts for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are pe rm i t ted to u t i l ize fore ign commercial credits, provided th at these do not exceed what is regarded as customary. Payments for invisibles The exchange control regu la t ions define and list those categories of payments abroad that are considered as cu r rent paymen ts. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments w i thout restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made th rough au thor ized banks in order to ensure that cap i tal paymen ts are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 1,000 that are made abroad for any purpose do not 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN have to be verified by authorized banks; however, if they constitute partial payments of a capital na tu re, the approval of the Riksbank is required. Life insurance premiums in excess of SKr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the R iksbank; such approval is normally given freely for both existing and new policies. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a t r ip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coin and other means of payment; applications to the Riksbank for additional amoun ts are treated liberally. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. The export by travelers of Swedish banknotes in denominations larger than SKr 100 is prohibited. With this exception, nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment. No traveler may, however, without specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coin. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, with some exceptions such as ships, scrap metal, mineral oils and certain mineral oil products, pig iron to the EC, and alloy steels to the United States are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds frorn exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank for Swedish kroner. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treat- ment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may for traveling purposes bring in un l im i ted amounts of banknotes, coin, and other means of payment. Swed- ish banknotes, however, may be on ly in denominations of SKr 100 or less. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires ind iv idual authorization, which norma l ly is granted only if the investment is considered l ike ly to promote exports or otherwise to benefit the balance on current account, irrespective of the return on the invest- ment. Authorization may be conditional on financing abroad by a loan in foreign currency or f rom an au thor- ized bank. The loans must have an average ma tur i ty of at least five years. Such financing is not required for investments in sales companies and other companies which to a significant extent give rise to exports f rom Sweden, for investments involving relatively small 384 amoun ts, or for investments in countries that are the ma in recipients of Swedish development assistance. Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to but not more than SKr 175,000 for each fam i ly. New investment in South A f r ica and Nam ib ia has been banned since Ju ly 1, 1979. A Swedish resident when emigrating is permitted to t ran s fer up to SKr 100,000, subject to verification by the Riksbank. Before obtaining permission from the R iksbank to transfer the remainder of his funds, the em ig rant is required to demonstrate his intention of ma in ta in ing that status by living abroad during a so- called qualification period. Determination of this quali- fication period is tied to the assessment of resident status in terms of taxation law. When Swedish residents emi- grate for a limited period, applications for transfers in excess of the in i t ial SKr 100,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Authorized banks may freely approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances, including those in respect of gifts and support payments up to SKr 5,000 a calendar year. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts f rom abroad on account of life, pension, and annu i ty con- tracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capital receipts f rom abroad only upon approval f rom the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credits from nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits. Borrowing in foreign currency abroad or f rom an authorized bank for periods of at least five years for purposes that are considered likely to benefit the balance on current account is normally permitted. The R ik sbank also permits exporters to cover their normal suppliers' credits through borrowing in foreign currency abroad or f rom an authorized bank. A Swedish exporter may, w i thout permission f rom the Riksbank, raise such a loan for up to six months from an authorized bank in order to finance such a credit which he, as a supplier, norma l ly provides for not more than six months. Sup- pliers' credits granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced in fore ign currency abroad or in an author- ized bank even if the credit serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers can also be granted permission to take up credit in foreign cu r rency abroad or in an authorized bank to finance impo r ts. A Swedish importer may, without permission f rom the R iksbank, raise such a loan for up to six mon ths f rom an authorized bank in order to finance his own imports, if suppliers' credits are normally available to him for not more than six months. Borrowing by way of suppliers' credit is not controlled, and other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrow ing itself and the repayment terms are in con- fo rm i ty w i th commercial practice. In this context, authorized banks are, upon application, permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through a corresponding foreign borrowing. Permission for the financing of the export and import transactions mentioned above requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. AB Svensk Exportkredit is allowed to provide credit in accordance with the ordinance (1978:404) on financing export credits with state support. Subject to these regulations, AB Svensk Exportkredit may, without a permit from the Riksbank ( 1) supply credit to a Swedish exporter or an authorized bank or to a foreign buyer or his bank, and (2) transfer credit from an exporter or an author- ized bank to a foreign buyer or his bank. Residents are not no rma l ly permitted to extend financial loans to nonresidents. Under certain conditions, authorized banks may be granted permission to borrow abroad for purposes of on-lending to residents. Thus, authorized banks may, under a Riksbank permit, raise loans abroad in foreign currency for on-lending to resident enterprises for not more than six months for financing imports of merchan- dise and providing credits for exports of merchandise. Subject to an overall limit set for that bank by the Riksbank, an authorized bank may raise loans abroad in foreign currency for on-lending to companies, pri- marily those of small or medium size. The on-lending must be related to the direct financing of productive activity in Sweden or to direct investment abroad licensed by the Riksbank and in each case it may not exceed SKr 10 million. The loan must have an average life of at least five years. The company is not required to obtain a permit. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden usually are permitted to borrow at long term from the parent com- panies. Generally, the repayment of foreign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract requires a new authorization from the Riksbank; such authorizations are granted restrictively. However, the Riksbank normally permits companies, local authorities, and authorized banks to ( 1) redeem the loan in advance by raising a new loan abroad with at least the same average l ife as the remaining average life of the redeemed loan, and ( 2) redeem the loan not more than n ine months in advance of its final redemption date. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development have been admitted. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authori- zation, which normally is given, provided that not more SWEDEN th an 50 per cent of each individual investment (invest- ments below SKr 5 million excepted) is financed with domestic credit. The transfer of the liquidation proceeds of such investments, inc lud ing appreciation, requires au thor iza t ion, which is always given. In connection with nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Sweden for recreational purposes, residents may, without authoriza- tion, both receive payment from, and grant credit to, nonresidents. This also applies to nonresidents' pur- chases of real estate for other purposes if they come to live in Sweden. Existing loans connected with the estate may, when older than one year, be transferred to the nonresident. Furthermore, banks are permitted to assist in the financing of the purchase with a new loan of up to SKr 50,000. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate always requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The pur- chase of both listed and unlisted foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers are authorized to purchase f rom nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed^ Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies using the proceeds f rom sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase is made within six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may without authorization buy from other residents foreign securities and Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies. A general license permits the repurchase abroad of listed Swedish securities denominated in kroner, pro- vided that an affidavit can be produced showing either ( 1) that at no time dur ing the last five calendar years have the securities been owned by a person domi- ciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The aff idav it is not required when the securities are registered w i th the Securities Register Center. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may handle purchases by non- residents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swed- ish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities, provided that ( 1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-mentioned aff idav it requirements are met or the securities are registered with the Securities Register Center; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than three months pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange hold- ings of each authorized bank. Banks may grant only 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur foreign exchange liabilities, but may not ma in ta in a net l iab i l i ty in any one currency. This, together w i th the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow for- eign currency from nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of k rono r) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad freely in order to sell the pro- ceeds against Swedish kronor in the marke t, but under certain conditions they may be granted permission to borrow abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Non- residents' holdings of kronor in External Kronor Accounts must not be "abnormal," and, w i th m inor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any fo rm may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the R iksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanu fac tu red gold and most types of sem imanufac tured gold. Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. Changes during 1979 January L The compensatory import taxes on beer, confectioneries and chocolates, and biscuits and wafers were increased. January L The Exchange Control Board permitted authorized banks to raise loans in foreign currency with- out special permission for on-lending to resident enter- prises for not more than six months for financing imports of merchandise and providing credits for exports of merchandise. The new arrangements were to be effected w i th in the framework of an amount fixed by the R iksbank. April L The Exchange Control Board permitted AB Svensk Exportkredit to supply credit to a Swedish exporter or an authorized bank and to a foreign buyer or his bank and to transfer credit f rom an exporter or an authorized bank to a foreign buyer or his bank. May 18. The Exchange Control Board removed the l im i ts on export and import financing by authorized banks (see en try for Janua ry 1, above). July 1. New Swedish investment in South A f r ica and Nam ib ia was banned. July 16. An export licensing requirement was imposed on exports of pig iron to the EC to ensure that the special arrangements made with the European Coal and Steel Community on the prices and quantities of certain iron and steel products were adhered to by Swedish suppliers. December 21. The Government removed the restric- tions on exports to and imports from Rhodesia. 386 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on January J, 1980) Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc as established by Decree of the Federal Council on May 9, 1971 is 0.21759 gram of fine gold. On October 1, 1978 the Swiss National Bank announced a target range in the exchange market for the deutsche mark. In te rven t ion occurs from time to time. The market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 28, 1979 was S wF 1.5800 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated free ly in Switzerland at rates determined by the in terp lay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export the Princi- pality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of capital control, na tu ral or jur id ical persons ( inc lud ing bank s) domiciled in Liech- tenstein are generally considered by Switzerland as residents, except in respect of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. For purposes of the Federal Law on Banks and Savings Ins t i tu t ions, however, L iech tens te in is con- sidered a foreign coun t ry. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Depart- ment of Foreign Affa irs. The Swiss National Bank is the executive au tho r i ty in ma t ters of currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports in to Switzerland may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain ag r icu l tu ral prod- ucts and certain fuels. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agr icu l tural products. Impor ts of textiles f rom specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for impor ts from all countries may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles may be made f ree ly. The export of Swiss and fore ign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export ( inc lud ing re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through ind iv idual licenses. 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropr ia te trade organizations. Export proceeds are f ree ly disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles are free ly disposable. The impo rt of Swiss and fore ign bankno tes is free. Capital Transfers of capital may be made w i thout fo rm a l i ty except that bank credits and other bank lend ing to non- residents, when exceeding Sw F 10 m i l l ion each and w i th a ma tu r i ty of 12 months or more, require per- mission. This applies to foreign bond issues in Switzer- land and to direct par t ic ipa t ion by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues. Furthermore, all proposed first place- ments of medium-term negotiable paper (notes) in amoun ts of Sw F 3 m i l l i on or more a year must be subm i t ted to the Na t ional Bank for au thor iza t ion. Issuance of foreign debt in s t rumen ts expressed in Swiss f r an cs and h av ing a m a tu r i ty of less than 12 months is discouraged. Foreign governments and monetary au tho r i t ies may not acquire participations in loans, notes (except those of in te rna t ional development insti- t u t i o n s ), and credits denominated in Swiss francs. Other nonres iden ts may do so on ly if they agree to hold such par t ic ipa t ions to ma tu r i ty. Some of the re levant regulations concerning inward capital t ran s fe rs make a d is t inc t ion between alien non- residents and nonres iden ts of Swiss nationality. The de f in i t ion of the terms "foreigner" and "foreign funds" are not the same under all types of capital control regulations. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and fore ign securities are unrestricted. In 1979 the banks have not been subject to any reserve requirements. Banks are not permitted to pay interest on Swiss f ranc deposits ( inc lud ing "fiduciary" or "trustee" f u n d s) received f rom nonresidents; how- ever, savings accounts and s im i lar accounts are subject to p re fe ren t ial trea tmen t. Banks are required to report mon th ly their forward positions. Banks' forward sales of Swiss f rancs to non- residents with a m a tu r i ty of up to ten days are limited to 20 per cent of the October 31, 1974 level; for ma tur i t ies of over ten days they are limited to 50 per cent of the ir October 31, 1974 level. There are no l im i ts for forward sales when nonresidents acquire Swiss f rancs for the repayment of credits, promissory notes, and bonds up to three mon ths ahead of ma tur i ty. Banks and finance companies must report mon th ly their "dealer positions" in foreign currencies (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and fo rwa rd ). Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign na t iona l i ty who are domi- ciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND where the property is situated. Such permission is also required for the acquisition of real estate by fore igners who have been resident in Switzerland for less than five consecutive years, unless they have been granted a residence perm i t. The approvals of the cantons are subject to superv is ion and appeal by the Confedera t ion. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and f ree of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Impor ts of gold in certain forms are subject to customs du ty (bars and cer ta in coin are exempt) or sales tax. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles con t a in ing gold. Changes during 1979 January 18. The Federal Counc il no t i f ied the GATT of the f u r t h er extension to 1979 of the emergency import quota on wh i te wine. January 24. The regulation p roh ib i t ing the purchase of Swiss franc-denom ina ted securities by nonresidents (Anlageverbot), wh ich had been in troduced on Feb- rua ry 27, 1978, was abolished. January 24. The limitations on the impor ta t ion of foreign currency notes, reintroduced on February 27, 1978, were removed. January 24. The requ irement that fore ign investors' subscriptions could not exceed 50 per cent of any issue of foreign bonds denom ina ted in Swiss f r an cs was abolished. February L In connection w i th the l i f t i ng of the ban on sales of Swiss securities to nonresidents, the Na t ional Bank announced that deposits of proceeds f rom the sale of such securities wou ld be subject to 40 per cent a n n u al negative interest w i th effect f rom March 1, 1979. April 16. The Devisenbezugsrecht, a system whereby Swiss exporters could increase the flexibility of conven- tional forward operations used to insu re exchange risks in U.S. dollars and deutsche ma rk, was extended to cover also proceeds in Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, I ta l ian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swedish kronor. May 31. The requirement of prior approval for foreign borrowing by resident nonbanks, the requ irement that banks should balance their foreign currency position daily, and the au tho r i ty of the Na t ional Bank to sterilize the Swiss franc proceeds of exchange market inter- vention (which had never been applied) were abolished. June 8. The requirement that foreign borrowers of 388 Swiss currency should convert 50 per cent of the pro- ceeds at the Na t ional Bank was lifted. June 30. The gentlemen's agreement lapsed, under which the banks and in terna t iona l ly active companies had been reporting to the Na t ional Bank their foreign exchange transactions exceeding US$5 million. The Na t ional Bank announced that un t il further notice the banks would not be required to report their foreign exchange tu rnover invo lv ing Swiss francs. July J. The Devisenbezugsrecht (see en try for Ap r il 16, above) was extended to exporters of goods and services in Liechtenstein. July 30. The Government informed the GATT of the extension of the generalized system of ta r i ff pref- erences to the People's Republic of China, with the exception of certain food, textile, and pyrotechnical items. August I. The Amendment of the Na t ional Bank Act entered into force. Its prime purpose was to incorporate in the Act various stipulations, previously set out in decrees, concerning the powers of the National Bank to impose m i n im um reserve requirements, to con- trol the issuance of securities, and to check the inflow of fore ign f u n d s. Finance companies, operating in the bank ing business and subject to Articles 7 and 8 on ly of the Bank Law, would be treated in the same way as banks as regards the negative interest rate requirement. August 29. The Federal Council advised the GATT of increased du ty on impor ts of peaches, as a temporary emergency measure. September 18. The l im it on the fo rwa rd sale to foreigners of Swiss francs with ma tu r i t ies of over ten days was raised from 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the October 31, 1974 level. The ceiling applicable for fo rwa rd sales of up to ten days ma tu r i ty remained at 20 per cent. November 1. The negative interest rate requirement on Swiss f ranc deposits of nonresidents was reduced f rom 10 per cent per quarter to 2.5 per cent per quarter. November 27. Parliament approved the renewal for ano ther five years (un t il Ju ly 15, 1985) of the Federal Decree of October 4, 1963 on the Participation of Switzerland in International Monetary Operations. The amount ava i lab le for such operations was increased f rom Sw F 1.5 billion to Sw F 2 billion. December I. The negative interest rates on Swiss f r a nc deposits of foreigners were suspended. However, deposits by foreigners would still not be permitted to earn interest. The fo l low ing changes took place at the beginning of 1980: January 1. Sanctions against Rhodesia were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Sy r ian A r ab Repub l ic is the Syrian Pound, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in t e rv en t ion cu r rency, at LS 3.925 = US$1. There are two exchange rates, the o f f ic ial rate and the free m a rk et rate. The Syr ian A r ab Repub l ic confines i ts b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar w i t h in LS 3.90 and LS3.95, respectively, per US$1; on December 31, 1979 the official buy ing and se l l ing rates were LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, per US$1. B u y i ng and se l l ing rates for all ma jor currencies are quoted on the basis of the official buy ing and s e l l ing rates for the U.S. d o l l ar and the ma rket rates for the currencies concerned in markets abroad.1 The free ma rket rate was at a dis- count of about 4 per cent f rom the o f f ic ial rate d u r i ng most of 1978, but the d iscount w idened d u r i ng 1979 to about 10 per cent. Administration of Control Policy w i th regard to imports and exports is de te r- m ined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Cen tral Bank of Syria and the Adm in is t ra t ive Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and cap i tal transactions by the Exchange Office. Authorized com- mercial banks, travel agencies, hotels, and a i r l i ne com- panies may deal in fo re ign exchange. The commerc ial banks may open letters of credit or accept b i l ls for collection only w i th the prior app roval of the Exchange Office. At present there is one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been au tho r ized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection w i thout pr ior app rova l, pro- vided that certain cond i t ions are f u l f i l l e d. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds of exports to all coun tr ies may be obtained in any con- vertible currency and such proceeds may also be received in banknotes denominated in conve r t ib le cu r- rencies and declared at the border posts of e n t r y. Pre- scription of cu r r en cy requ iremen ts are not app l ied to outgoing paymen ts. A ll paymen ts to and receipts f rom Egyp t, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. The Syrian A r ab Repub l ic ma in ta ins b i l a t e r al paymen ts agreements w i th the People's Repub l ic of China, North Korea, Sri Lanka, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish k r o n e r, deu tsche m a r k, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jo rdan d ina rs, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi A rab ian r iya ls, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Non res ident accounts in Sy r ian pounds may be credited w i th the proceeds of fo r e ign currencies sold to the au tho r ized bank and w i th p aym en ts for goods. They may be debited w i thout pr ior approval to pay for Sy r ian exports to the coun t ry of the account holder and for expenses in the Sy r ian A r ab Republic. Nonresidents may open fo r e ign cu r rency accounts in the Syrian Arab Repub l ic; the re is no need for them to present evidence that they h ave sources of income abroad. Resident na t iona ls w ish ing to open such foreign accounts are requ ired to present written evidence as to the origin of the f u n ds to be transferred. Transfers abroad f rom these accoun ts may be made f ree ly. Temporary non- resident accoun ts may be opened in the name of non- residents temporar i ly resident in the Syrian Arab Repub- lic. These accounts may not be used, however, for f u n ds received in se t t lement currencies, through payments conven t ions, or by d ip loma t ic and UN missions and th e ir s ta f fs. Perm i t ted credits inc lude the local cu r- rency proceeds of fo re ign currency brought in at the pa ra l lel ra te and amoun ts corresponding to import pay- men ts that are not t r an s f e r r ed. Debits for local expendi- tu res are comp le te ly free, and debits for expend i tures abroad also are perm i t ted. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of commodities o r ig ina t ing in Egypt, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. Many basic commod i t ies ( i n c l u d i ng green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, i ron and steel, and certain agr icu l tural m a c h i n e r y) are impor ted on ly by state t rad ing agencies or, for t h e ir own account, by cer ta in other official agencies. Agencies exc lus ive ly qua l i f ied to import may impo rt cer ta in commodities to meet the raw material needs of the p r iv a te sector. Impor ts a re d iv ided in to two categories: ( 1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, wh ich comprises mos t ly goods that are produced domes t ica l ly, i n c l u d i ng some textile produc ts (however, wa ive rs may be g ran ted in order to meet the needs of i n d u s t ry or to obtain supplies of f o o d s t u f f s ); and (2) all other goods. In p r inc ip le, impo r ts must come direct f r om the coun t ry of o r ig in, w i t h o ut the in t e rv en t ion of any fo re ign f irm; the M i n i s t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the au tho r i ty, howeve r, to perm it certain goods to be imported f rom coun t r ies other th an the coun t ry of o r ig in. All perm i t ted imports, except those made by state t r a d i ng agencies, requ i re i n d i v i d u al impo rt licenses before the placing of orders when valued at over LS 500. The state t rad ing agencies' opera t ions are governed by the a n n u al fo re ign exchange budget. U n d er the budget, they prepare documen ta t ion re la t ing to import t rans- 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC actions wh ich they subm it to the b anks and the customs au tho r i t ies. Ce r ta in impor ts (not appea r ing in the l i st of p roh ib i ted impo r t s) f rom Iraq, J o r d a n, Lebanon, and Saudi Arab ia are exempt f rom license, in accordance w i th the A r ab Common Ma rket Agreemen t. In such cases an au tho r i z a t ion to import is g r an t ed in response to a w r i t ten request. Syrian citizens, wh e th er res ident in the Sy r ian A rab Repub l ic or abroad, are en t i t led to impo rt specified raw ma te r ia ls, cap i tal goods, con sumer goods, and spare parts, provided th at impor ts a re pa id for w i th t h e ir own foreign exchange r e s u l t i ng f rom economic ac t iv i t ies abroad or represen t ing assets held abroad whose repa t r i- a t ion is not lega l ly requ ired (deposits in fo re ign bank accounts mu st have been established before Decem- ber 31, 1970). The v a lue of the import licenses may not exceed LS 100,000 (except for cap i tal goods). Import licenses are granted f r e e ly to impor ters who have obtained fore ign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days; settlement for goods licensed under such credit fac i l i t ies may be made imm e d i a t e ly if a d o c um e n t a ry letter of credit is opened at the Commerc ial Bank of Syria and the importer covers the f u ll am o u nt w i th h is foreign exchange. Licenses to impo rt specified i tems that no rm a l ly a re prohibited (ce r ta in l u x u ry consumer goods) up to a v a l ue of LS 24,000 in a 12 -mon th period, are granted on request to me rchan ts ce r t i f ied by the Chamber of Commerce and the M i n i s t ry of Supp ly and In te rnal Trade and whose names appear on the l i st of payers of income tax pub l i shed by the M i n i s t ry of Finance. No licenses are requ ired for impo r ts in t h is category where the v a lue does not exceed LS 500 an item a mon th. Foreign currency accounts may be debited free ly for import paymen ts, provided th at a license is ob ta ined, when necessary. There are l im i ted import fac i l i t ies for t rave le rs a r r i v i ng f rom abroad. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of impo rt licenses, except for government imports and imports of ce r ta in essential i tems, i n c l u d i ng raw ma ter ia ls, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In add i t ion, the fo l low- ing taxes, collected by the customs, are applied on imports: ( 1) a statistical tax of 4 per cen t; (2) a con- sump t ion tax of 4 per cent for all imports for wh ich the ta r i ff rate is more than 1 per cen t; ( 3) a defense tax of 15 per cent of the t a r i f f; (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax p lus 2 per cent of the t a r i f f; ( 5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the t a r i ff for goods t rans fe r red by ships through Sy r ian harbors (most commodities may be imported on ly th rough Syr ian ha rbo rs ); and (6) an ocean tax of 0.20 of 1 per cent of the va lue of impor ts for all goods t ran s fe r red by ship in any harbor, i n c l u d i ng those of ne ighbor ing countries. Paymen ts for imports may be made at the free market rate by letters of credit, t ime draf ts, or on a collection basis, or by crediting a nonresident account or a temporary resident account. Importers may t ran s fer 390 the fo re ign exchange at any time. The importer submits the impo rt license and the pro forma invo ice to the Commerc ial Bank of Syria, which then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. Approval by the Exchange Office is not required. Insurance for impor ts u n d er documen ta ry credit and most private sector impo r ts must be effected locally. Payments for Invisibles A ll p aym en ts for inv is ib les, except expend i tures of S y r i an o f f i c i a ls ab road, mu st be made at the free m a rk et ra te. Both res iden ts and nonres iden ts may free ly take out fo re ign bankno tes. Residents t r a v e l i ng abroad may also take w i th them other foreign exchange purchased at the p a r a l l el ra te as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equ iv a l ent of LS 100 a t r ip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a t r ip; for t ravel to other A r ab countries (except A lge r ia, the L iby an A r ab Jamah i r iya, Morocco, Sudan, and T u n i s i a) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a t r ip; and for t r av el to other coun tr ies ( i n c l u d i ng A lger ia, the L iby an A rab J am a h i r i y a, Morocco, Sudan, and T u n i s i a ), the equ iva lent of LS 1,250 a tr ip. For ch i l- d r en between the ages of two and ten, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. Workers on second- ment to a fore ign coun t ry may take with them fore ign exchange up to the equ iva lent of LS 500. For travel to p a ym e n ts agreement coun t r ies, 50 per cent of the t r a v el a l loca t ion must be taken up th rough the clearing account concerned (30 per cent for travel on official b u s i n e s s ). On d ep a r tu r e, residents of Syrian n a t ion a l i ty mu st pay an ex it tax of LS 11.50 a person. Fixed a l loca t ions at the f ree ma rket rate are m a i n- t a in ed for o ther t ran sac t ions in inv is ib les, as fo l low s: 60 per cent of the salaries received by fo re ign t e chn i c i ans and exper ts emp loyed in the Sy r ian A r ab Repub l ic; 50 per cent of the sa la r ies of personnel of fore ign d ip loma t ic and i n t e r n a t i o n al m iss ions in the Syrian A r ab Repub l ic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for d iv idends acc ru ing to non res iden ts f rom Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a mon th for pr iva te dona t ions and cha r i t ies. In a ll cases, applications for add i t ional am o u n ts mu st be subm i t ted to the Exchange Office. Non r e s id en ts leav ing the c o u n t ry a re perm i t ted to take out LS 100 in Sy r ian cu r rency, and residents LS25. No app rova ls are granted for add i t ional amoun ts. Non- residents leav ing the coun t ry are allowed to reconvert Sy r ian currency in to foreign exchange up to the equiva- l ent of LS 500 upon show ing evidence of hav ing pu r- chased the cu r rency f rom an o f f ic ial dealer. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and the ir derivatives are na t iona l ized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Au tho r i ty. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Petroleum Marke t ing Office. Exports of certain other commodities also are reserved for gove rnment agencies, state t rad ing agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution countries and all exports to Egypt, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports of the ma in products and of all goods of fore ign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repa t r ia t ion comm i tment is required by wh ich the exporter unde r takes to br ing the proceeds to the Syr ian A rab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria w i t h in six mon ths a f ter the date of export. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered at the free ma rket rate (except that the proceeds of cotton and petroleum exports must be surrendered to the Exchange Office at the off ic ial r a t e ). The Commerc ial Bank of Syria may accept prepaymen ts for exports of Sy r ian produc ts by residents and nonres i- dents w i t h o ut r e f e r r ing to the Cen tral Bank of Syria. Cer ta in m a n u f a c t u r ed exports receive subsidies f rom the Fund for the Deve lopment of Exports of Indu s t r i al Products. Exports of f r u i t s, vegetables, and olives, and c rude 011 and its derivatives are subject to an export tax of 12 per cent ad va lorem. Expor ts of other ag r icu l tu ral products are subject to an ad valorem agr icu l tural tax of 9 per cent p lus 3 per m i ll in case of export by sea. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom p ipe l ine roya l t ies must be sold at the o f f ic ial rate and those f rom o ther inv i s ib les at the free ma rket rate. Nonres iden ts en te r ing the Syrian A r ab Repub l ic are permitted to b r ing in un l im i t ed fore ign exchange in any fo rm. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. Non- residents are permitted to b r ing in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital All inward and outward capital t rans fe rs take place at the free ma rket rate. Imports of private f u n ds in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special facilities for the investment of f u n ds of imm ig ran ts and of na t iona ls of Arab states in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Repub l ic. Inve s tment guarantee agreements have been signed w i th France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Sw i tzer land, and the Un i ted States. Immovable prop- er ty in the Syrian A rab Republic may not (without prior approva l) be acquired by nonresidents or foreign na t iona ls other th an resident Arab nationals. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syr ian A rab Repub l ic w i thout restriction. Domestic t ran sac t ions in gold take place at free ma rket prices that are in l i ne w i th free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt f rom import licensing, while exports of gold are subject to a repatriation commitment cover- ing the cost of m a n u f a c t u r i ng and the profit earned. Changes during 1979 April 18. The Commercial Bank of Syria was author- ized to accept prepaymen ts for exports of Syrian prod- ucts by residents and nonresidents, w i thout reference to the Central Bank of Syria. May 7. The importation of potatoes was prohibited (Decree No. 283). September 12. Workers on secondment to a foreign coun t ry were allowed to take w i th them foreign exchange up to the equivalent of LS 500. October 3. Nonresidents leaving the coun try were allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into foreign exchange up to the equivalent of LS 500 upon showing evidence of hav ing purchased the currency from an official dealer. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling. On January 20, 1979 the exchange rate of the Tanzania shilling was depreciated by 10 per cent in terms of the SDR from TSh 9.66 = SDR 1 t o T Sh 10.7333 = SDR 1 or TSh 8.28936 = US$1 at the U.S. dollar-SDR rate prevailing on that date. On the same date the fixed relationship to the SDR was discontinued and the Tan- zania shilling was pegged to a basket of currencies of Tanzania's main trading partners. The Bank of Tan- zahia quotes ~daHy- buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were T Sh 8.22456 and TSh 8.22483, respectively, per US$1. The buy ing and selling rates for other currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving normal import payments, some payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two'* authorized banks, the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the M in is try of Trade. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controllers to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar administers an inde- pendent system of foreign trade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and non- residents normally must be made either in convertible currencies or by debit or credit to External Accounts in Tanzania shillings. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of foreign countries with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated nonresident 1 Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Ind ian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 392 accounts and may be either External Accounts or unspecified nonresident accounts. They may be credited w i th authorized payments to residents of foreign coun- tries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency (other than South African currency) to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for permitted purchases of foreign cur- rencies f rom authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Certain goods listed in the Imports Control Notice of 1977 may be imported freely, irrespective of country of origin, while other goods listed require specific licenses. A semiannual foreign exchange plan provides for indicative foreign exchange allocations for goods subject to specific licenses. All consignments of imports of and above T Sh 20,000 in value are subject to quantitative and qualitative inspection and price comparison by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva, acting as agent for the Government of Tanzania. All merchan- dise imports by the ma in land must be insured with the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania, unless exempted by the Bank of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tanzania shillings. All imports into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Advance payments for imports are allowed in excep- tional circumstances only, exchange for import pay- ments normally not being granted until after customs clearance. Suppliers' credits require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There has been an accumula- t ion of arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled and require the approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Non- citizens work ing in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually may remit abroad, throughout their period of employment, up to one third of their monthly sa la ry to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc. Appli- cations to remit in excess of one third of salary, or in excess of TSh 3,000 a month, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Persons mak ing uncommitted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are suspended, but exceptions may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania on a case-by-case basis. Family remittances to relatives abroad also are suspended. Resident trav- elers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic cur- rency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit up to the amount they brought in. Certain payments for invisibles are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. On the ma in- land, exports of products dealt with by state trad ing organizations and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports may not be effected without an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must ma in ta in an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies within one to two months f rom the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an author- ized bank upon their collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a return- ing traveler may bring in up to T Sh 100 in Tanzan ia shilling notes he had exported on departure. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to con- trol by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently, who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immedi- ately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the facility for mak ing uncommitted remittances of savings, may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of TSh 20,000 for each household. Any assets in excess of the in i t ial em igra- tion allowance of T Sh 20,000 are remittable in five yearly installments of T Sh 20,000 each, after which any remaining amount will be considered for repatriation. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation TANZANIA the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec- t ion) Act, 1963 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign and domestic investment in speci- fied types of production requires approval. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents f rom residents, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds f rom resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate w i th in Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial and pro- fessional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler, are subject to ind iv idual licensing by the Bank of Tan- zania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to goldsmiths on ly. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, indu s t r ial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1979 January 20. The exchange rate of the Tanzania shilling was depreciated by 10 per cent in terms of the SDR. The fixed relationship to the SDR was dis- con t inued, and the Tanzan ia shilling was pegged to a basket of currencies of Tanzania's trad ing partners. June 22. A 10 per cent import duty was imposed on all machinery and transportation equipment, except for consignments brought in under agreements between the Government and foreign development assistance agencies. July 1. Import ta r i f fs on sugar, confectionery, cer- ta in foods tu f fs, and f r u it and vegetables were raised f rom 50 per cent to 75 per cent. December 27. Sanctions against Rhodesia were lifted. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major t rad ing partners; the weighting reflects the shares of trade as well as the currencies used in payments. The exchange rate of the baht in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, is determined partly on the basis of demand and supply in the foreign exchange market at da i ly f ix ings managed by the Exchange Equalization Fund. The Exchange Equalization Fund intervenes to keep the relationship of the baht to the basket of currencies within a margin and to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. The authorities deal w i th commer- cial banks only in U.S. dollars at the fixing rate, which is also used as the middle rate for transactions between commercial banks and customers. B u y i ng and selling rates applicable to commercial banks' transactions with their customers in respect of telegraphic transfers for six other currencies l are determined daily on the basis of the daily fixing rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates in international markets. On December 31, 1979 the middle official rate was B 20.425 = US$1, and the commercial banks' buy ing and selling rates for telegraphic transfers for the ir cus- tomers were B 20.385 and B 20.465, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the M in is try of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies 2) and to authorized persons. All incom ing exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All out- going payments are subject to approval (g iven auto- matically for bona fide commercial transac t ions and other current paymen ts); certain inwa rd capital trans- fers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial Notification.3 Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concern ing the currency to be used for settlements with foreign coun- tries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. 1 Deutsche ma rk, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, and Singapore dollars. a No authorized company has yet been established. 3 No such notification has yet been issued. 394 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident baht accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In prin- ciple, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; there are exemptions, however, for nonresident accounts of foreign diplomatic entities, international organizations based in Thailand, and Thai na t iona ls temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds f rom sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred f rom abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transfer- able Accounts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any- t ime and may be debited freely for the purchase of for- eign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts include pro- ceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Tha i land, freight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of em igra t ing residents of Thai nationality, and f u n ds that are not eligible for credit to a Transfer- able Account. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Tha i land; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai na t ional is involved. In add i t ion to the above, the Bank of Thailand encour- ages nonresidents to place foreign currency deposits w i th commercial banks in Thailand. No restrictions are placed on the opening of a foreign currency account as long as the f u n ds originate abroad. Balances on such accounts may be transferred w i thout forma l i ty or restric- tions. A commercial bank may pay interest on such deposits at competitive rates. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited for protective and other reasons. All imports of goods or ig ina t ing in or shipped from Rhodesia 4 and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Imports of tea leaf and tea dust are subject to a requ irement that the importer purchase a proportionate q u a n t i ty of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Import licenses are valid for all countries except Rhode- s i a4 and South A f r ica. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific ap- proval of the Bank of Tha i land, wh ich is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of 4 The sanctions against Rhodesia were l i f ted on February 27, 1980. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution credit or letters of credit w i th an exp i ry date exceeding n ine months. Importers must ob ta in, in add i t ion to the usual documents, a "certificate of paymen t" f rom an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 20,000 in va lue can be cleared th rough customs; m i l i- tary equ ipment imported by the M in i s t ry of Defense and certain m inor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Certain goods are subject to temporary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts and transfers for current in terna t ional transactions. Payments for invisibles require au thor iza t ion, which is u s u a l ly given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Tha i land. Cargo insurance p rem iums due to foreign insu re rs may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income a f ter taxes. The t r an s f er of profits and d iv idends is permitted f ree ly by the Bank of Thailand. Apa rt f rom foreign travel, f am i ly ma in- tenance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve app l ica t ions for exchange without suppo r t ing documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equ iv a l ent of US$140. Au thor ized persons are allowed to sell fore ign currency notes to other persons in an amount not exceed- ing US$250 a person a month. In the case of a fore ign tour ist wishing to convert baht into foreign currency notes, the authorized person may exceed the above limits. For persons traveling abroad for pleasure or personal business trips, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equivalent of US$800, for trips of less than 10 days, or US$80 a day for tr ips of more than 10 days but not exceeding 30 days for t r ips with visas, or not exceeding 15 days for t r ips w i thout visas; for business or official travel, US$100 a day is allowed and additional foreign exchange not exceeding US$70 a day may be obtained in certain cases for enter- ta inment expenses. For family remittances, authorized banks may sell US$200 a month to each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a month for other countries. Amounts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a f am i ly traveling on one passport) or fore ign currency exceeding US$250 (US$500 for a f am i ly trave l ing on a single passport) w i thout the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Transit passengers and tourists may take out without prior authorization their own foreign means of payment or foreign securities or foreign banknotes and coin of a value not exceeding US$2,000 or such higher amount as they may have declared in writing upon entry. THAILAND Exports and Export Proceeds All exports or re-exports to Rhodesia require an indi- v idual license (see footnote 4), and exports to South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.5 All o ther commodities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia (see footnote 4) and South Afr ica. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exporta- tion" f rom an authorized agent in order to clear the sh ipment th rough customs, where shipments of tin or rubber exceed B 2,000 in value and, with minor excep- t ions, where exports of other goods exceed B 20,000 in va lue. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to an au tho r ized agent w i th in 7 days of receipt; they must be surrendered w i th in 15 days f rom the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight b i ll is drawn for collection, or 15 days after the due date of a usance b i l l, but not later than 180 days a f ter the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or p la t inum ornaments or other articles up to any va lue. The export of most types of rice and rice products and of sugar is subject to export taxes referred to as export premiums. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an au thor- ized agent. Au thor ized persons are allowed to purchase fore ign cu r rency notes and coin or travelers checks pay- able in fo re ign currencies, but the latter must be resold to au thor ized agents. No person may br ing into Thai- l and local currency exceeding B 2,000 without a permit (B 4,000 for a f am i ly trave l ing on the same passport). Travelers may b r i ng in any amount in foreign notes and coin. Capital All ou tward t ran s fe rs of capital, inc lud ing premiums on l i fe insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amoun t. Foreign exchange from inward capital move- ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the t rans fer must be declared. Foreign investments in Thailand may be accorded preferen t ial treatment under the Investment Promotion Act B.E. 2520 (issued on April 29, 1977); this treatment includes a guaran tee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is no rma l ly granted if it can be shown that the f u n ds originated abroad. Certain economic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Thailand approval. All other private loans 3 These include gold, p la t inum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, so rghum, corn, rice and rice products, all types of suga r, brass and copper in cer ta in forms, iron scrap and most fo rms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND taken up abroad may be registered w i th the Bank to fac i l i ta te approval of ou twa rd remittances. The Foreign Debt Committee must approve ex ternal bo r row ing by the pub l ic sector. Gold Res iden ts may hold and nego t ia te dome s t ica l ly gold jewe l ry, gold coin, and unwo rked gold .<; Impo r ts and exports of gold o ther t h an jewe l ry are subject to the f o l l ow i ng a r rangemen ts, un less they are effected by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ie s. Comme rc ial impor ts of gold in any fo rm are restricted and requ i re a license issued by the M i n i s t ry of F inance. For gold bu l l ion, the M i n i s t ry pe r iod ica l ly f ixes an au thor ized q u a n t i ty of imports. A b idd ing system operates under which the importer o f fe r ing the highest p r em i um by tender is awarded a license as sole impor ter of the authorized quan t i ty for a certain period. In add i t ion to this p rem ium, which accrues to the Governmen t, the importer is required to pay to the M i n i s t ry of F inance a fee at the rate of 2 per cent of the c . i .f. va lue of the gold. Foreign tourists may take out gold o rnamen ts up to any value. Exports of gold bu l l ion are prohibited, while traders' exports of gold ornaments exceeding B 5,000 in va lue require a certificate of exportation for presentation to the customs, but they are free of export duty or taxes. Changes during 1979 January 1. Export control was imposed on tapioca products, orchids, and all types of beans. January 17. An import l icens ing requ irement was imposed on wood, wood conversions, and all k inds of wood products. January 31. The max imum period for which travelers, whether business travelers or tourists, m ight purchase foreign exchange f rom an authorized bank was reduced from 45 days to 30 days (B a nk of Tha i land Notice to Authorized Agents No. 30). January 31. The import ban introduced on Febru- ary 1, 1978 was removed from the fo l low ing 8 items (out of 18 ): (1) fresh or dried grapes; (2) sharks' fins; (3) na tu ral f ru it flavors used in the beverage indus- try; (4) travel goods of all types and materials; (5) pic- ture postcards, Christmas cards, and other greeting cards printed by any process, with or without t r imm ings; (6) calendars of any k ind, of paper or paperboard, inc lud ing calendar blocks; (7) bathtubs; and (8) toilet paper and facial tissues. February 6. An import surcharge of 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on discontinuous polyester fiber, polyester stretched yarn, and nylon stretched yarn; a surcharge of 10 per cent was imposed on continuous polyester filament yarn and on nylon filament yarn. Each surcharge would be in operation for one year. 0 With effect from J a n u a ry 30, 1980 purchases or sales of gold on commodity fu tu r es exchanges were prohibited. 396 February 7. Tar iff du ty on benzine and similar oils for eng ines was raised f rom B 1.83 a liter to B 2.02 a l i te r, and duties on kerosene, s im i lar oils for lighting, diesel oil, and s im i l ar oils for engines were reduced by about 50 per cent to B 0.15 a liter. February 24. The licensing requirement for imports of ny lon fiber, elastic fiber, and polyester fiber, imposed on October 31, 1973, was l if ted. April 3. Impo rt surcharges effective for one year were imposed on the fo l low ing items: certain fishing nets (25 per c en t ); taps and cocks used in households or w i th s a n i t a ry appliances (20 per cen t ); and pig iron (5 per c e n t ). Surcharges on sodium hydroxide and plasticizers were canceled. April 16. The l icens ing requirement for the importa- t ion of pig i ron, imposed on December 19, 1977, was l i f t ed. April 26. A l icens ing requirement was imposed on exports of canned pineapple to the EC countries. May 1. The M in i s t ry of Finance l if ted for a period of five months the 10 per cent and 25 per cent with- holding taxes on foreign borrowings by financial insti- tu t ions and other ju r id ical persons, respectively. May 13. The licensing requirement imposed on March 15, 1973 on exports of ready-mixed an im al feed was l i f ted. July 4. Import surcharges effective for one year were imposed on certain telephone receivers (25 per cen t), cer ta in adhesive plastics (30 or 20 per cen t ), and potas- s ium chlorate (30 per cen t ). July 11. An impo rt surcharge of 10 per cent effec- t ive for one year was imposed on gauze of a lum inum wire. July 14. Tar iff duties were raised as follows: benzine and s im i l ar fue ls for engines B2 .91 a liter; kerosene and s im i lar fue ls for l igh t ing B 0.56 a liter; and diesel and s im i lar fue ls for engines B 0.53 a liter. July 25. The prior approval requirement was lifted for exports of orchids not exceeding B 50,000 effected by authorized exporters. August 1. Agreement was reached with the EC on quotas for Thailand's exports of textile products in 1979, prov id ing for a small increase over 1978. August 16. A licensing requirement was imposed on exports of castor seeds. September 5. An import surcharge of 20 per cent effective for one year was imposed on menthol imports, of both flake and powder types. October 1. The interest rate on nonresident accounts in foreign currencies, hitherto fixed at a max imum of 12 per cent, was permitted to float. The withholding tax on foreign loans, suspended for five months on May 1, was l if ted for a fu r th er year un t il September 30, 1980. November 20. The maximum exchange allowance for business or official travel, including entertainment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND expenses, was raised f rom US$120 to US$150 a day. An authorized agent might approve an exchange allow- ance for a max imum of 30 days with a visa or 15 days without a visa (Bank of Thailand Notice to Authorized Agents No. 32). November 28. Several changes were made in the exchange control regulations: ( 1) The amount of local currency that a traveler to Thailand might br ing in was raised from B 500 to B 2,000 ( for a fam i ly trave l ing on the same passport the limit was raised from B 1,000 to B 4,000). (2) The value of exports for which an exporter was not required to surrender foreign currency was raised to B 20,000 for goods in general and to B 2,000 for tin and rubber. (3) Commercial banks were authorized to sell foreign currency notes and coin up to a value of US$250 a customer, or the equivalent at market rates: previously, the limit had been US$150 for each customer. December 12. Importation of single-piston diesel engines and engine blocks was banned. December 21. A ban was placed on the importation of ju te and kenaf. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per m i ll on transfers from countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, and notaries public, any infor- mation necessary to compile balance of payments sta- tistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and i Jhe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Benin Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Un ion are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 398 the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nige- r ia, and Sierra Leone are norma l ly made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through corre- spondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. For- eign Accounts in Francs may also be debited, without authorization, w i th BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all imports of South A f r ican origin are prohibited. Imports from coun- tries in the former French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the M in is try of Commerce and Trans- port, when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more, and when they are destined for commercial purposes. Imports f rom all other countries require individual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are granted in accordance with an import program established each year; as yet, how- ever, the program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses from all sources are granted. There is no formal free list. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quan t i ty of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Nationale de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar cubes, rice, flour, canned m i lk, soap for household use, salt, tobacco and tobacco products, corrugated iron, and concrete reinforcement rods. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution not earlier than one month before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened, or one month before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Some arrears of import payments have accumulated. Payments for invisibles Certain payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also generally permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equiva- lent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the former French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Mone- tary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the amount declared by them on en t ry3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and travelers checks drawn in their names abroad. 3 This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign currency sold for CFA francs, and (2) any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repur- chases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. TOGO Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Certain exports to Rhodesia and all exports to South Africa are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phosphates and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other agricultural commodities. The due date for payment for exports to foreign coun- tries may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination and the proceeds must be surrendered w i th in a month after the due date if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of France or of an Operations Account coun t ry; authorized diamond purchasing offices, however, may retain foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisible transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fore ign banknotes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the former French Franc A rea. Residents b r ing ing in foreign banknotes and for- eign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertis- ing, or offer ing for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Economy.4 Foreign direct inv e s tm en ts in Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request postponement of the projects. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any out- ward investment also requires pr ior declaration to the M in is ter of Finance and Economy. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Togolese inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of F inance and Economy and to the BCEAO w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct investments constitute invest- ments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this au thor iza t ion: (1) loafis constituting a direct investment, which are subject to pr ior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by indus tr ial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved in te rna t ional mer- chanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 5 Including those made by companies in Togo that are d irec t ly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any fore ign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Economy; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the main- tenance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Govern- ment and the investor. An Investment Law, applicable to both foreign and domestic capital, sets out the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement by which they receive ce r ta in tax benefits. Firms that under take to invest at least CFAF 25 m i l l ion may receive a guarantee in respect of the ir taxa t ion over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income the re f rom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Togo. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun try require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Economy. Exempt f rom th is requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t i c l e s ); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$2.4 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are TT$2.3970 and TT$2.4210, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago levies exchange charges up to a maximum of 1 per cent on purchases or sales of exchange. At present, these charges amount to 0.50 per cent for sales and nil for purchases. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority with respect to the approval of payments for visible imports to the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce, and with respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles to authorized banks. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign currency2'3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. All overseas pay- ments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresident- controlled companies, are also subject to control. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Author- ity and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago but, under an arrange- ment with the monetary authorities concerned, the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treat- ment with respect to collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. 1 Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche m a rk, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Tr in idad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 3 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves f requent receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Currency Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account must be submitted to the authorities. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency 4 except Rhodesian and South African currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to all countries other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency except Rhodesian currency. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in sterling or in any other specified currency except Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the excep- tion that transfers from External Accounts held by residents of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)5 to any country outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., pro- ceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago or proceeds from the sale of for- eign securities). The use of balances on Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeem- able either optionally or contractually within four years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be credited to an External Account. Imports and Import Payments While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject * Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 5 The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO to the provisions of a Negative List. The list cites over 400 items that are subject to regulation by specific license and also identifies countries that are accorded special treatment. Thus trade with Rhodesia and South Afr ica is prohibited, and all imports from Albania, Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licensing, irrespective of the Negative List status of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Trade with CARICOM coun- tries is effected in the national currency of the member countries concerned. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which the goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The main items that are subject to the Negative List include cement, clothing, corrugated iron sheeting, cos- metics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, and com- pletely assembled motor vehicles. Firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. Certain food products are covered by the Agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Imports of rice and oils and fats are subject to state trading; rice is normally imported from Guyana at agreed prices.6 All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, and plants are subject to specific regulation, as are imports of mining materials. All other commodities from all sources may be imported under open general license. Where specific import licenses are required they must be obtained from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce before orders are placed. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. If prescription of currency arrange- ments are complied with, foreign exchange is granted without restriction or undue delay, provided the author- ities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen- tary evidence. No restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where pay- ments to Rhodesia and South Africa are concerned. Under authority delegated by the Central Bank, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain transac- tions in invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$2,500 a person a year, for business travel TT$350 6 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial channels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 402 a day for a maximum of 30 days for one trip, and for health care TT$ 12,000 a year. Allowances for educa- tion abroad are TT$8,000 for schools, TT$ 12,000 for universities, and TT$ 1,200 for correspondence courses, and TT$700 once every two years for wa rm clothing. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part of their basic travel allowance up to a maximum of TT$120 in foreign currency notes. Non- residents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on depar- ture, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports of certain goods usually require an individual license. These include some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petro- leum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies and sugar companies to export without specific licenses. The proceeds from sugar exports are subject to a tax which varies on the basis of the price of the export sale. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign currency. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by resi- dents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits is permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigration allowances are approved up to specified limits; furthermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are per- mitted liberally. Legacies may be expatriated in full. However, the Central Bank reserves the right to phase ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution remittances up to a maximum of four years. Certain international institutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposi- tories have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securi- ties expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contrac- tual amortization of sterling securities is permitted, and also of mortgages and other loans if the original bor- rowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was sub- sequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. All foreign investment, whether in cash or in kind, is normally eligible for repatriation provided it was registered with the Central Bank. Hence, when funds are received for investment, local banks should authenticate the receipt of such funds from External Accounts. In the event of an appreciation in the value of the asset concerned, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original invest- ment will normally be phased over a max imum of five years depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to per- sons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, pro- vided that the full proceeds of sale are received in for- eign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally pro- vided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or are not redeemable within four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Pros- pective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive legisla- tion designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substitution industries. Since 1973 these policies have been effected within the TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO framework of a CARICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incentives. Certain concessions are granted to industries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., indus- tries that have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being conducted on a commer- cial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for fu tu re development. Evbry pioneer manu- fac turer is entitled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident individuals and firms (other than residents of other CARICOM countries) and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such com- panies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must maintain the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quan- titative ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance, (1) one party to every trans- action in gold between residents must be an authorized bank, ( 2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank, and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permit- ted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is adminis- tered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold f rom non-CARicoM sources are subject to import duty at 5 per cent (preferential duty) or 15 per cent (gen- eral d u t y ), and those of partly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferential du ty) or 25 per cent (general d u t y ). Such imports are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1979 January 26. Certain foodstuffs (butter, milk, corn- meal, meat, flour, onions, potatoes, rice, tea, nuts, etc.) were deleted from the list of products requiring import licenses. However, other food items, such as vegetable oils, canned meat, and lemonade, were added to the list. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO March 30. The authorities raised the purchase tax on imported refrigerators and freezers for p r iva te use to 25 per cent. June 18. Personal travel allowances (previously TT$ 1,200 a calendar year for tourism, business, and healthcare) were increased to TT$2,500 a calendar year, TT$350 a day for a max imum of 30 days for one trip, and TT$ 12,000, respectively. Annual allowances for education abroad (previously TT$4,000 at schools, TT$6,000 at universities, TT$100 for correspondence courses, and TT$500 once every two years for warm clothing) were raised to TT$8,000, TT$ 12,000, TT$ 1,200, and TT$700, respectively. The l im i ts for- merly imposed on commercial banks for the release of foreign exchange to pay commissions and membership dues were raised from TT$ 1,000 and TT$100 to TT$5,000 and TT$300, respectively. Commercial banks were permitted to release up to TT$500 in foreign cur- rency as a g i ft allowance. September 18. Commercial banks were permitted to resell to re turn ing temporary visitors the equivalent of up to TT$ 1,200 on presentation of satisfactory evidence that such funds had been originally brought in by them in foreign currency. September 21. Wheat flour was added to the list of products requiring an import license. 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar. The exchange value of the d in ar is determined in accordance w i th a basket of currencies. The buy ing and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1979 the spot buy- ing and selling rates of the d i n ar were D 0.09799 and D 0.09897, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.3939 and D 0.3978, respectively, per US$1. Since February 1, 1979 forward quotations are provided daily for the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, and the U.S. dollar.2 The buy ing and selling rates of authorized banks are identical w i th those of the Central Bank. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Directorate of External Economic Relations of the Ministry of Commerce, which determines, in consultation with the Central Bank, the imports that are to be prohibited or liberalized as well as the products that are to be subject to quotas. The Directorate, in collaboration with the Central Bank, issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank1 or in convertible Tunisian d ina rs through Foreign Accounts. Settlements between Tunisia and Morocco, and certain settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, may be effected through accounts in the national cur- rencies concerned at the central banks. Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened without authorization in the names of non- resident foreign nationals and of Tunisian workers abroad, and, with authorization, in the names of other Tunisian nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with dinar proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies (other than banknotes), w i th interest (at the demand deposit and time deposit rates applicable to residents) on balances in these 1 Currencies quoted spot are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and U.S. dollars. In addition, the Central Bank quotes banknote rates for all of these currencies (except the Moroccan d i rham) and for CFA francs, Kuwaiti dinars, Mali francs, Qatar riyals, and U.A.E. dirhams. 2 The forward rates are calculated for periods of one month to six months for the selling rates and of one, two, and three months for the buying rates. accounts, and with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Conver t ib le D ina rs; all other credits requ i re p r ior au tho r iza t ion, either d irect or by delegation. They may be debited f ree ly for payments of any k ind in Tun i s ia (irrespective of the coun try of residence of the p ay e r ), for t ran s fe rs to other Foreign Accounts in Convertible D inars, and for the purchase of any fore ign cu r rency f rom the Central Bank. Such currency may be t r an s f e r r ed abroad or remitted in Tun is ia to the account holder or to any other nonresident beneficiary. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established by nonresidents w i thout authoriza- t ion. They may be credited with convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresi- dent, w i th fore ign cu r rency purchased f rom the Central Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars, w i th authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder, w i th interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates, and with the proceeds f rom the cashing of checks, travelers checks, or draf ts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonres ident to the order of the account holder. The accounts may be debited at any time for the sale of fore ign currency to the Central Bank, for transfers to any Foreign Account, for transfer abroad, or for delivery of foreign currency to the account holder or any other nonresident beneficiary. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian na t ion- ality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for their nonresident customers. Subject to certain con- ditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, w i th the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemption, of Tun is ian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tun is ia, and w i th funds f rom a Capital Account held by a person hav ing the na t iona l i ty of a country belong- ing to the same monetary area as that of the holder of the account to be credited. Subject to certain conditions, these accounts may be debited freely for the purchase of quoted Tun is ian securities, participations in Tunisian companies quoted on the stock exchange, and the acqu is i t ion of real estate. Irrespective of the account holder's coun try of residence, Capital Accounts may be debited for l iv ing expenses in Tun i s ia of the account holder and his fam i ly, up to D 100 a person a week, subject to a l im it of D 2,000 for each f am i ly v i s i t ing Tunisia between November 1 of each year and March 31 of the following year, provided that the total amount 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA used in any single year does not exceed D 2,000. They may also be debited, subject to ce r ta in conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities, the maintenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes, and for t r an s f er to the credit of ano ther Capital Account. These accounts may not be overdrawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are t ran s fe rab le abroad. Fur thermore, balances out s tand ing on May 31, 1975 could be used up to December 31, 1979 for the purchase of five-year government bonds, when the amount u t i l ized is not greater than D 10,000, and seven- year government bonds with funds utilized over and above that amoun t. Interest payments and repayments on m a tu r ing bonds are transferab le through an author- ized intermediary. Internal Nonresident Accounts are used by na tural persons of foreign n a t ion a l i ty staying temporar i ly in Tun is ia and receiving income in d ina rs there; the open- ing of these accounts requ ires the approval of the Cen- tral Bank, and balances can be used only in Tun is ia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts may be credited w i th the salaries of nonresident foreign nationals employed in enterprises bene f i t ing from certain export incentives under Law No. 72-38 of Ap r il 27, 1972. Special Dinar Accounts. Nonresident foreign enter- prjses operating on the Tunisian market may be author- ized to open special d in ar accounts intended to cover, totally or partially, their expenses in Tunisia. The Cen- tral Bank determines the operational and l iqu ida t ion pro- cedures for such accounts on a case-by-case basis. Suspense Accounts are used for c red i t ing all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents where such proceeds are awa i t ing utilization in Tun is ia for specified pur- poses or Central Bank approval for t rans fer abroad or transfer to other nonresident accounts. Subject to cer- tain conditions, Suspense Accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, in respect of purchases of Tun is ian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio management expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tun is ian Government or public ins t i tu- tions, and settlement of l iv ing expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (irrespective of his coun- try of residence) or his fam i ly up to D 100 a person a week subject to a limit of D 2,000 a year for any one fam i ly. Physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. All other debits to these accounts require the authorization of the Central Bank. Foreign Currency Savings Accounts may be main- tained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian natural or juridical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited with the count- ervalue in dinars of convertible foreign currency trans- 406 ferred by the account holder by check or postal transfer. They may be debited freely. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Liberalized imports require only an import certificate, while all other imports require approval, which may be given within the framework of a bilateral quota or a global quota. Imports of non- liberalized goods require an import license from the Directorate of External Economic Relations and the visa of the Central Bank; when issuing the license, the Direc- torate of External Economic Relations, if necessary, consults with the appropriate technical ministry. Certain products may be imported from any country (except Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica) under spe- cial procedures, as follows: Certain spare parts and a few other products required by industries may be imported without license against presentation of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each importer. Certain products liberalized under Notice No. 116 may be imported under an import certificate. This procedure is used for spare parts imported by industry and the hotel trade which are intended for incorporation or utiliza- tion in their facilities or for capital goods authorized by the Investment Promotion Agency. All products, except those imported under an import certificate, may be imported under an "annual import authorization," irre- spective of the import regime (liberalized, prohibited, or subject to quo ta) or their country of origin. Industries, par t icu lar ly export-oriented industries and agencies responsible for supplying certain essential goods for domestic use, may avail themselves of this annual authorization. Manu fac tu r ing industries producing exclusively for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for their production process, subject only to a customs declaration. Consumer goods listed under some 332 tariff items or subitems are licensed only w i th in an overall foreign exchange ceiling set by the Ministry of Planning. Imports of certain goods are licensed in such a manner as to ensure that payment is made within the framework of government loans. Other goods that are subject to government monopoly are imported only by a single operator or by public agencies —mainly the Regie National des Tabacs et A l lume t tes (matches, playing cards, and tobacco), the Office du Commerce (coffee, tea, and sugar), the Office des Cereales (g r a in s ), and the Pharmacie Centrale de Tun is ie (d rug s ). Prohibited imports by such agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements as private imports. To obtain an import certificate, an import authoriza- tion, an import license, or an importer's card, importers must have received a customs code number. All import documents involving payments must be domiciled with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution an authorized bank. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank for all payments that have received proper and prior authorization. Resident importers are authorized to buy forward foreign curren- cies required for fu tu re settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of six months. In addi- tion to customs duties, a number of import taxes are applied. Payments for invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some transactions this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved, provided that they are properly documented. These include (1) various payments related to inter- national trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, com- missions, and brokerage); (2) payments for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses; and (3) payment of interest and amortization arising from authorized con- tractual obligations to nonresidents. Approval is also given freely for remittance of certain dividends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and to pay customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use EFAC balances freely for expenses related to pub- licity abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for cer- tain other expenses. Natural persons and enterprises producing for export within the framework of Law No. 72-38 may freely make payments related to their produc- tion process; amounts in convertible dinars credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms covered by Law No. 72-38 may be used for business travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allo- cation equivalent to D 100 a person (D 50 for children under ten); the allocations for two consecutive years may be cumulated. The allocation for study abroad is D 100 a month. Exporters and hotel owners holding EFAC accounts may use such balances up to the equivalent of D 2,000 a year for business travel abroad. A foreign national employed under contract may transfer up to 50 per cent of his net wage or salary without limit if his family is not resident in Tunisia and subject to a maxi- mum of D 150 a month if his family lives in Tunisia.3 Foreign experts employed by the public sector may trans- fer abroad their monthly salaries up to the limits speci- 3 There are special regulations for those employed by nonresident manufacturing enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38 and producing exclusively for export. TUNISIA fied in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 per cent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. The export of Tunisian d inar banknotes or coin is prohibited. Unless Central Bank permission is obtained, the reconversion of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per cent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a max imum of D 100, if the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not exceed 24 hours, there is no limita- tion on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports are liberalized. Nonliber- alized exports require an export authorization when sold to a country in the former French Franc Area and an export license when sold outside that Area. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du Vin, the export of cereals that of the Office des Cereales, and the export of olive oil that of the Office National de 1'Huile. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 15 days from the date payment is due if no credit is extended or, unless special authorization from the Central Bank is obtained, w i th in 100 days after shipment if the goods are sold on credit. Resident exporters may sell forward for a maximum term of three months, through author- ized intermediaries, foreign currencies representing the proceeds from their merchandise exports. Exporters and hotel owners may arrange to credit part of their export proceeds to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires) accounts denominated in convertible dinars. For exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following shipment. For hotel owners, credits are limited to 4 per cent of their foreign exchange pro- ceeds. Authorized intermediaries are empowered to grant surety bonds and performance bonds to resident exporters and to resident exporting enterprises approved under Law No. 72-38. Resident manufac tur ing indus- tries that produce exclusively for export and are approved under the terms of Law No. 72-38 may arrange to credit 2 per cent of their repatriated convertible cur- rency export proceeds to Business Travel Accounts in Convertible Dinars. Under the provisions of Law No. 72-38, nonresident manu fac tu r ing enterprises (i.e., enterprises whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent through the impo rt of convertible currencies) p roduc ing exclusively for export are exempt f rom the requ i rement of repa t r ia t ion and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repa t r ia te and s u r r e n d er a ll am o u n ts de r ived f rom services rende red to persons r e s id ent 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA abroad and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received f rom foreign countries. However, there are certain EFAC fac i l i t ies for such proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above ). For- eign banknotes and coin (except gold co in) may be brought in f r e e ly; non res ident travelers w ish ing to re-export the equ iva lent of over D 500 must make a currency declaration upon en t ry. The import of Tun is ian d in ar bankno tes and coin is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tun is ian authorities in order to be able to transfer the principal of, and current earnings f rom, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain the benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35) and by Law No. 74-74 on investment in manu fac tu r ing industry. These include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate the capital invested in foreign currency or the net proceeds of sale or l iqu ida t ion, even if this amount exceeds the amount i n i t i a l ly invested in foreign currency plus the earnings on that capital. Furthermore, Law No. 72-38 provides for various special benefits for nonresident m anu f a c tu r ing enterprises, in c lud ing an exemption from the repatria- tion requirement in respect of export proceeds. Law No. 76-63 provides for the establishment in Tunisia, sub- ject to prior approval by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, of foreign f inanc ial and bank ing institu- tions conducting business with nonresidents. However, these institutions may also grant credits to residents or take up participations in the capital of resident com- panies upon authorization from the Central Bank. Such ins t i tu t ions are regarded as nonresident for exchange control purposes; they need not repatriate any of their funds or proceeds and may freely extend credit to non- residents for the investment and working capital require- ments of enterprises in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are entitled to the transfer of the following: 50 per cent of their assets (subject to a ceiling of D 3,500) for those who left Tunisia before August 20, 1970;4 D 4,000 for those who left between August 20, 1970 and December 31, 1973; D 5,000 for those who left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 for those who left af ter December 31, 1974; and D 15,000 for those leaving Tunisia after December 31, 1978, provided they are Tunisian-born and over 60 years of age at the time of their departure. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank. Donations or the proceeds from inheritances accruing to nonresidents are credited to Capital Accounts. The 4 Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. 408 amortization of loans taken up with Central Bank approval f rom nonresidents is freely transferable. Gold Five commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monop- oly over the import and export of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require joint authorization by the Central Bank and the M in is try of Commerce. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes during 1979 January 9. A notice to importers and exporters was published amending the list of Tunisian products that could be exported to Malta and of Maltese products that could be exported to Tunisia (Official Gazette). January 24. Central Bank Circular No. 79-08 defined the procedures for the establishment of forward exchange cover in connection with foreign trade operations. February 22. Central Bank Circular No. 79-10 estab- lished the max imum transferable amount to be remitted by emigrants in case of final departure. March 16. A notice was published amending Notice No. 116 of February 4 and February 8, 1972 concern- ing the import certificate procedure (Official Gazette). April 20. It was announced that the amount of with- drawals that might be made by holders of Suspense Accounts and Capital Accounts to defray expenses of their stay in Tunisia during the period from November 1 of each year to March 31 of the following year would be increased (Exchange Notice No. 136). August 21. Exchange Notice No. 137 was published concerning the insurance contracts concluded in Tunisia by nonresident export-oriented industries (Official Gazette). September 18. Central Bank Circular No. 79-31 increased the monthly allocation for educational expenses. October 2. Imports of cassettes were removed from the list of items that could be imported freely without license under the import certificate arrangements. The importation of cassettes would henceforth require the prior approval of the Directorate of External Economic Relations of the Ministry of Commerce and of the Central Bank. November 16. The Ministry of Commerce issued a notice to importers and exporters specifying the products that might be traded with the People's Republic of China under the Trade Agreement of May 17, 1979 between the two countries (Official Gazette). December 25. A notice of the Minister of Commerce to importers and exporters amended the list of products that might be traded with Morocco under the Trade and Tariff Convention between Tunisia and Morocco of February 26, 1973 (Official Gazette). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Turkey is the Turk ish Lira. The authorities of Turkey do not observe margins in respect of exchange transactions and Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy by which exchange rates for the lira are adjusted from time to time. On December 31, 1979 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were LT 35.00 and LT 35.70, respectively, per US$1.1 These rates apply, however, only to purchases of foreign exchange resulting from exports of certain agricultural products2 and to purchases or sales of foreign exchange in respect of exports, re-exports or imports of crude petroleum, petro- leum products, and chemical inputs for the production of fertilizer. All other purchases and sales of foreign exchange (except for workers' remittances and travel) become subject to a prem ium or levy of LT 12.10 per US$1, resulting in an effective rate of LT47 .10 per US$1 buy ing and LT 47.80 per US$1 se l l ing. Wh i le, in principle, the rate of LT 35.00 per US$1 applies to workers' remittances, these transactions benefit from the immediate crediting of three years of interest at the t ime of deposit, resulting in an effective buy ing rate of LT47.10 per US$1. A rate of LT 32.03 per US$1 for the sale to residents of foreign exchange for travel abroad, in combination w i th the existing travel tax of 50 per cent, yields an effective selling rate of LT 48.04 1 With effect f rom J a n u a ry 25, 1980 the buy ing and selling ra tes for the U.S. dollar were adjusted to LT 70.00 and LT71.40, respectively, per US$1 for all foreign transactions except as noted below: ( 1) Re- mittances from Turkish workers abroad con t inued to benef it f rom the provisions for immediate credit of three years' interest at the t ime of deposit; the nominal rate applied to such receipts was LT 52.50 per US$1; w i th the additional interest, however, the e f fec t ive buy ing rate became LT 70.00 per US$1. (2) The sale of fo re ign exchange for tourism abroad continued to be subject to a 50 per cent sales t ax; sales of exchange took place at the ra te of LT 47.60 per US$1 wh ich, with the tax, resulted in an effective selling rate of LT 71.40 per US$1. (3) Interim arrangements were made to fac i l i ta te the t rans i t ion to the new exchange rate system: (a) For s tuden ts whose s tud ies abroad were undertaken prior to June 12, 1979, a ra te of LT 26.50 per US$1 would apply until August 31, 1980. For other s tuden ts who l e ft Tu rkey prior to Janua ry 25, 1980 the rate in effect at the t ime of depa r tu re would be applied. Cost-of-living expenses and tu i t ion paymen ts of students who commence their studies abroad a f ter J a n u a ry 25, 1980 would be met at the current exchange rate; (b) for receipts of fo re ign exchange obtained f rom exports of goods and services effec ted before Janua ry 25, 1980, for which the foreign exchange had not yet been repatriated, the Central Bank would apply the rate in effect at the time of exportation. However, if such fore ign exchange earn ings were to be remitted to Turkey w i th in one mon th in advance of the due da te, a premium of LT5.00 per US$1 would be paid. These a r rangemen ts resulted in temporary effective rates to certain expor ters of LT47 .10 per US$1 and LT 52.10 per US$1. (4) For foreign exporters who chose the Turkish lira auctions for the settlement for the ir nongua ran- teed overdue claims, a rate of LT47.10 would apply. (5) A ra te of LT 55.00 per US$1 applied to purchases of exchange for imports of fertilizers, inputs for fertilizer production, insecticides, and inputs for production of insecticides; the difference in local cu r rency between the rate of LT 55.00 per US$1 and the official rate of LT71.40 would be charged to a Price Stabilization Fund at the Central Bank. This Fund would derive its resources from specific levies on exports of certain agricultural products expressed in Turkish l i ra per k i logram. 2 Raw cotton, including linter, tobacco, wheat, hazelnuts, raisins, molasses, pistachio nuts, olive oil, dried figs, rye, barley, oats, rice, lentils, mohair, livestock, maize, and oil cake. per US$ 1. The arrangement for the retention and trans- fer of 50 per cent of the foreign exchange obtained f rom exports of m in ing products and manufac tures results in an add i t iona l, more depreciated rate. Also, the Gove rnment provides under certain conditions foreign exchange to students studying abroad at a preferential rate of LT 26.50 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the M in- istry of Commerce, which also prepares the import pro- grams. The M in i s t ry of Commerce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the M in is try, allocates foreign exchange; certain fo re ign exchange allocations for imports, includ- ing commodities on liberalized list II, require the prior approval of the appropr ia te ministry. The Central Bank issues import licenses on ins truc t ions of the Ministry of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by profes- sional organizations ( the Exporters Un ion, the Cham- bers of Commerce, of Indu s t ry, and of Commerce and I n d u s t r y) according to the ins t ruc t ions of the Ministry of Commerce; export licenses are issued by this Minis- t ry, wh ich may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the M in i s t ry of F inance. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements w i th countries w i th which Turkey has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements8 are made in accordance w i th the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds f r om exports to these countries may be received in any conve r t ib le currency. Certain commercial settlements w i th Iraq, the L ibyan A rab Jamah i r iya, and Romania and w i th the other members of the Regional Coopera- t ion for Development ( I ran and Pak is tan) are made th rough special accounts denom ina ted in U.S. dollars. Settlements w i th all other countries are made in con- ve r t ib le currencies. Proceeds f rom exports to specified coun t r ies in Western Eu rop e4 must be received in the cu r rency of a coun t ry in th is group. Nonresidents as w e ll as resident ju r id i c al persons are no longer permitted to open or to add to demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denominated in convertible Turkish l iras and which bear an exchange guarantee by the Central Bank (see section on Capital be low ). Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of old, used and reconditioned, defective, subs tandard, soiled, or poor-qua l i ty goods are prohibited, :* A lban ia and U.S.S.R. The agreement w i th A l b a n ia is inope ra t ive. Payments w i th Po r tugal are channeled th rough a special account, but Tu rk ey does not consider Por tugal to be a b i la teral p a r tn er coun try. 4 Au s t r i a, Be lg ium, Denma rk, France, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, I ta ly, Ne ther lands, Norway, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, and Un i ted Kingdom. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY except with the authorization of the Ministry of Com- merce. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within six months. In exceptional cases, the validity of import licenses is extended by a period not exceeding eight months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, indus- trialists, state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an import certificate issued by the Ministry of Commerce before submitting applica- tions through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken into consideration when gran t ing such certificates. Exporters, mine operators, shipowners, building contractors who have undertaken the construc- tion of state establishments, tourist establishments, and registered manufacturers are also required to secure an import certificate for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualifica- tions is issued by the respective public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the Exporters Union, or the Ministry of Tourism and Information. Most goods are imported in accordance with the pro- visions of import programs which are planned for one year. The import programs classify imports in two categories: ( 1) An annual list of liberalized goods, con- sisting of two parts (lists I and I I ). There are no limits as to either value or quantity of goods brought in under these lists. Import licenses are issued freely and appli- cations for import licenses for goods on the liberalized lists may be submitted at any time to authorized banks, which transfer them to the Central Bank for issuance of the import licenses. However, before an import license may be issued for goods to be imported under list II, approval of the appropriate government depart- ment is required. (2) A list of goods subject to global quotas published annua l ly. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of these lists are prohibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by the Ministry of Commerce. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements;r> goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the b i la teral quotas. Certain imports from member countries of the EC are included in a list of liberalized items consolidated to the EC and these are free of quantitative restriction; most of the items on this list are included in liberalized lists I and II. The list of import quotas contains quotas for regis- tered importers and for industrialists, which are allo- 5 When permitting imports of goods on the liberalized or quo ta lists from countries other than the payments agreement countries or member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Ministry of Commerce takes into account the balance of trade and payments with these countries. 410 cated twice a year. Imports on the quota list are sub- divided into two broad categories, depending on whether they do or do not require a permit from a specified public body. Foreign exchange allocations for all quota imports w i th in the quantitative limit established for each quota item are made by the Ministry of Commerce. Some of the quota imports also require a certificate con- firming that the articles are not manufactured domes- t ica l ly or that local supplies are inadequate as to either quan t i ty or quality; this certificate is issued by the Min- istry of Industry and Technology. Registered importers have to submit their applications for goods not requir- ing a permit through an authorized bank and the Central Bank to the Ministry of Commerce during the first two months of each semester. The Ministry of Commerce issues a foreign exchange allocation letter valid for two months, and an import license must be secured from the Central Bank w i th in this period. Applications for imports against industrialists' quotas where no permit is required have to be submitted through the Chambers of Commerce and Industry to the Ministry of Commerce in Ap r il and September of each year. Applications for quota imports requiring a permit from a specified public authority must be submitted to the responsible body by importers and by indus- trialists. An import license must then be secured from the Central Bank w i th in the period of validity of the exchange allocation. The import license, in principle, permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon cus- toms clearance). For payment against letters of credit or documents, all importers (with the exception of government departments), are required to prepay in local currency the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. The prepayments are t rans fe r red to the Central Bank by the authorized bank w i th in five days. For payment against goods, one half of the local currency counterpart of the value of the consignment has to be deposited at the time of appli- cation for the import license and the balance at the date of customs clearance. Importers are forma l ly required to effect the relative foreign exchange transfer w i th in five months from the date of the import license for payments against docu- ments and w i th in two months from the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Since March 1977, however, the Central Bank has limited foreign exchange payments for imports to raw materials and other essen- t ial commodities. Beginning late in 1976, large arrears of payments for imports have emerged. There is also a large amount of outstanding applications with the Central Bank for authorization of letters of credit. The local currency counterparts of both these applications and the arrears have been deposited with the Central Bank and are being held in a special account. Exchange rate adjustments for officially quoted cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rencies entail changes in required import deposits. Importers are required to increase their deposits in the special account or they may receive reimbursement f rom the special account in the following cases: ( 1) when for- eign exchange has been sold to the importer but the goods have not yet been imported, (2) when no foreign exchange has been sold and the goods have not been cleared by customs, and (3) when no foreign exchange has been sold but the goods have been cleared by customs. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are sub- ject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberalized or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the Ministry of Commerce on a monthly basis. Financing through acceptance credits w i th a m i n i- mum maturity of 180 days is permitted for certain imports, including imports by industrialists for their own use. Turkish banks have been requested to use half of their total acceptance credit f inanc ing for imports of petroleum and fertilizers. In principle, commercial banks have to meet all foreign exchange needs arising from acceptance credit financing from their own foreign exchange resources. Banks can apply at the Central Bank for the t rans fer of foreign exchange bu t, as a consequence, they lose the right to carry out fu tu re acceptance credit operations. Guarantee deposits for imports are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized list I and list II for industrialists' own requirements, 25 per cent of the value of the merchandise; for other imports, 40 per cent0; for imports under global quotas and for industrialists' quotas, 25 per cent, and for importers' quotas, 40 per cent.7 For imports under bilateral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported from a nonpayments agreement country. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of pay- ment. The public sector is exempt, however, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to convertible cur- rency countries only, or on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agreements). The deposit rema ins 6 Effective January 25, 1980 these advance import deposits were reduced to 30 per cent and 15 per cent, respectively, and public sector imports became subject to a 10 per cent advance import deposit requirement. 7 For fertilizers, ammonia, breeding animals, and certain products on liberalized list II and the global quotas, the rate is 1 per cent. For materials used for shipbuilding, repair, and modification carried out within the country, and for the construction of shipyards, the rate is 0.1 per cent, provided the value of imports does not exceed LT 25,000; when ships are built abroad or are purchased abroad, the rate is 0.2 per cent, provided the value of guarantee deposits does not exceed LT 25,000. TURKEY blocked un t il the goods have been cleared through cus- toms and the fo re ign supp l ier is paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guaran tee deposits collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in con fo rm i ty w i th the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit corresponding to up to 10 per cent of the va lue of such imports is forfe i ted to the Treasury. Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any form, except that the M in is try of Commerce is authorized to conclude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through price supporting purchases made by the State. There are special arrangemen ts for the allocation of foreign exchange for exporters of m anu f a c tu r es and industrial and m in ing products who are en t i t led to for- eign exchange allocations equivalent to 50 per cent of exports for their own import needs or the import needs of their subcontractors. These en t i t lemen ts can be trans- ferred at a freely determined price to other industrialists, provided the foreign exchange is used to f inance impor- tation of inpu ts for export production. Exporters are entitled to use these foreign exchange ea rn ing svfor pay- ments for goods up to twice the amount of inputs imported under the "cash against goods" scheme. Furthermore, manu fac tu re rs who have export orders in hand, or are willing to guarantee exports of a specific va lue, are allowed to arrange for credits abroad in order to f inance the ir import needs, up to 50 per cent of the va lue of the export orders in hand or 50 per cent of the ir export comm i tmen t. The arrangemen ts for credits are subject to the condition that the exporter w i ll repay the external credits out of export earn ings. The Govern- ment makes available to manufac turers fore ign exchange conversion authorizations from the Export Promotion Foreign Exchange Fund established in 1970. Moreover, exporters are entitled to priority in fore ign exchange allocations equivalent to 1 per cent of the ir foreign exchange receipts in the previous year, subject to a l im it of US$50,000. Imports w i thout an allocation of fore ign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Cen- tral Bank, or the M in is t ry of Finance, u n d er certain conditions. Travelers dom ic i led in Turkey may b r ing in for personal or professional (but noncommerc ia l) use goods and machinery up to a l im it (in terms of total import duties applicable) of LT 6,000. Separate l im i ts and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of professional ins t rumen ts and machines, by persons who have resided abroad for employment or study; these va ry w i th the length of stay abroad and with the transfer of foreign exchange to Turkey. Companies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents tem- porar i ly work ing abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and machinery for their personal or fam i ly use. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Foreign contractors may temporarily import machin- ery, vehicles, and scientific i n s t r um e n ts w i thout request- ing an allocation of foreign exchange, prov ided that the goods are proved to be necessary for the ir opera t ions in Turkey. Foreign companies established in Tu rk ey may import spare parts not in tended for new inv e s tm en ts without reques t ing an a l loca t ion of fo re ign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for the ir opera- t ions. All such impor ts requ ire the permission of the exchange control au thor i t ies. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to th i rd par t ies in Tu rkey. Impor ts of automobiles,8 tractors, or profess ional machinery, etc., w i thout payment of fo re ign exchange may be permitted by the Cen tral Bank or the M in i s t ry of Finance, provided that cer ta in cond i t ions are met relating to residence abroad and to r em i t t an ce and sale of foreign exchange to au tho r ized banks in Turkey. Automobiles imported w i thout a fo re ign exchange allo- cation may be sold to res iden ts by the T u r k i sh n a t i o n a ls who had impo r ted them. Foreign d ip lom a ts in Tu rkey may sell the ir automobiles to Turkish residents, provided that the necessary impo rt du t i es are pa id at the t ime of the sale, that Turk ish d ip loma ts in the seller's coun t ry are granted reciprocal pr iv i leges, and th at the proceeds f rom such sales are not t ran s fe r red abroad. Foreign officials, other th an d ip loma ts, may not sell to Tu rk i sh na t iona ls any au tomob i les impo r ted d u ty free und er special agreements. Other fo re ign n a t i o n a ls res ident in Tu rkey may impo rt automobiles u n d er c e r t a in condi- t ions, but these must be exported a f t er th ree years; however, this three-year period may be ex tended, and the M in is t ry of F inance may also p e rm it the sale of such cars to the State Supp ly Office or to nonp ro f it organizations. In addition to customs d u t y, impo r t ed goods are sub- ject to the fo l low ing charges: ( 1) a cus toms surcharge (m u n i c i p al tax) of 15 per cent of the app l icab le customs d u t y; (2) a s tamp d u ty of 22.5 per cent or 25 per cent of the declared va lue, d ep end ing on the type of com- m o d i t y0-1 0; (3) a quay du ty of 5 per cent on the sum of c . i .f. va lue, cus toms du ty, customs surcharge, and customs clearance expenses; and (4) a p roduc t ion tax r a n g i ng f rom 10 per cent to 75 per cent on the sum of c . i . f. value, customs du ty, customs surcharge, customs c lea r ing expenses, and quay du ty. The quay d u ty is not payab le on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles requ i re exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Cen tral Bank. These are granted l ibera l ly for the fo l low ing purposes, pro- vided that app l ica t ions are accompan ied by specified documen ts: paymen ts related to t rade ( i n c l u d i ng ship- p ing costs and expend i tures connected w i th other freight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, paymen ts for registration fees, adve r t is ing expenses, consulate income, paymen ts by the Gove rnmen t, paymen ts by the Post Office Adm in i s t ra- t ion and s im i l ar state ins t i tu t ions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' paymen t s, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial trans- actions. The t rans fer of income related to foreign inves tmen ts approved under the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Inves tment is perm i t ted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonres iden ts to enterprises in Turkey ( in c lud ing those of an agri- cu l tu r al n a t u r e) may be granted t ran s fe rab i l i ty between fo re ign na t iona ls both in Turkey and abroad. Turk ish citizens may not leave the coun t ry w i thout ob ta in ing an allocation of fore ign exchange for travel, but th is does not apply to fore ign na t iona ls residing in Turkey. Tourist t ravel is restricted, in effect, to one t r ip a person every three years, and one trip a person a year to Cyprus. A tax of 50 per cent is applied to the purchase of fo re ign exchange by Tu rk ish na t iona ls t r av e l ing abroad. The a l lowance for tou r ism is the equ iv a l ent of e i ther a m i n im um of US$30011 or a m a x im um of US$500. Exchange for business travel is gran ted up to an a n n u al max imum l im it of US$2,500, i n d i v i d u al l im i ts be ing de te rm ined in accordance with the taxab le income of the app l icant firm; for business- men in expo r t ing businesses the l im it is related to the export e a rn ings of the ir f irms. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., educa t ion, par t ic ipa t ion in in te rna t ional meetings, fa i r s, and athletic meets, and pe rsonal bus iness) is sold up to specified l im i t s. In addi- t ion, persons who can ce r t i fy that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical t rea tment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 1,000 in Turkish bankno tes and coin. Nonres iden ts may take out w i thout any restriction the un spent portion of the fore ign exchange wh ich they brought in. Nonres ident travelers who wish to reconvert l iras in to fore ign currency when l e av ing the coun t ry are required to present a document showing that fore ign exchange had p rev ious ly been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to bilateral countries, exports of the commodities listed in the appendix of the export pro- g ram, 12 re-exports irrespective of destination, and tem- porary exports requ ire an export license in order to p revent re-exports and to assure adequate supplies for the domestic ma rke t. Most other exports need to be 8 Automobiles are not included in the impo rt p rog ram. 0 The s tamp du ty is 100 per cent for impo r ts made by special permission but not con fo rm ing to the provisions of the Cus toms Law, the Foreign Trade Regime, and s im i lar legislation and regu la t ion s. 10 On J a n u a ry 25, 1980 the ra te of s tamp d u ty was reduced to 1 per cent and its scope was ex tended to apply to all impo r ts. 11 The m i n im um purchase requ i rement was abolished on J anu a ry 25, 1980. 12 Cereals, ce r ta in m inera ls such as mo lybdenum, wo l f r am, and iron ore, articles made of precious metals or stones, vegetable oils, oil- seeds, skins, fe r t i l ize rs, cattle, mea t, t imbe r, and paper. (However, this list may be changed whenever the export regime is renewed .) 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution registered. Commercial export prices must conform to the checklist of prices fixed at in terva ls by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce on the basis of prices in domestic and foreign markets. Exports of goods subject ne i ther to registration nor to license may be effected free ly. The prices of exports to free trade areas or to du ty- f ree shops abroad are approved ex post at the time the goods are delivered or at the t ime of sale. Such exports require an export permit issued by the Ministry of Com- merce. Transit trade items are not subject to price controls, although the purchase price and any commis- sion earned must be brought into Turkey. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported w i th in two months f rom the date of export or w i th in ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. They are permitted to export on three- year credit terms, however, against payment in con- vertible currency and subject to a bank guaran tee. While all export proceeds, in principle, are converted at current exchange rates, exporters receive f rom a special account in the Central Bank the d ifference between the exchange rate at the time of export l icens ing, registra- tion, or customs declaration and the cu r r ent exchange rate if the d ifference is in their favor. Forward sales may be made on ly when payment is to be received f rom the f ree currency area; price con fo rm i ty for fo rwa rd sales is required at the t ime the export con tract is concluded. Under an export tax rebate scheme, d irect and ind i rect taxes paid are re funded when manu fac tu res or indu s t r i al products are exported. The rates of rebate range f rom 5 per cent to 35 per cent of export va lue. Other tax r e funds app ly for certain goods when exported to bilateral payments agreement countries. Tax incen t ives include the exemption of export ea rn ings f rom income and corporation taxes and the exemp t ion of export goods f rom production tax. Exporters of specified goods also have access to credit at p re fe ren t ial in te rest rates from a Special Export Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Firms or ind iv idua ls not in the category of au tho r ized institutions cannot accept more than the equ iva lent of US$100 f rom foreign tourists and are requ ired to surrender any exchange earn ings in the fo rm of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an au thor ized bank w i th in ten days. Otherwise, fore ign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to non- residents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three mon ths from the d a te on which the service was rendered or w i th in ten days f rom the date of acquisition of the exchange. Foreign t rave le rs wish- ing to take out articles with a va lue exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. TURKEY The import of Turkish banknotes and coin by trav- elers (whether of Turkish or foreign na t iona l i ty) is l im i ted to LT 1,000. The import of foreign currency by t rave le rs is un res t r ic ted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital trans- actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Subject to specific permission issued by the M in is try of Finance residents may acquire fore ign securities. Resi- dents are required to ob ta in permission to acquire fore ign real estate. W i th the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law, foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, a l though under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist indus try. Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign companies and con- tractors is subject to quo tas set by the M in is try of F inance in accordance w i th their equ i ty capital in Turkey, but special fac i l i t ies exist for borrow ing from the "Blocked Currencies Fund" at the Central Bank. Blocked f u n ds are those accrued or accru ing to non- residents but not t ran s fe rab le under the existing exchange control regulations. These inc lude the sale proceeds of real estate s i tua ted in Turkey and owned by nonres ident physical or ju r id i c al persons. Except for approved investments, nonres iden ts may not convert i n to fore ign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earn ings accru ing to them; all earn ings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earn ings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is released. Subject to ind iv idu al permission, blocked assets and balances may be u t i l ized w i t h in Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insu rance, and main- tenance and repair of property, and for l iv ing expenses of up to LT 30,000 a mon th for each beneficiary for owners of such f u n ds or the ir au thor ized representatives, and UD to LT 15,000 for cer ta in relatives. Norma l ly, such blocked f u n ds may not be t rans fe r red to others except by legal succession. The inves tment of blocked f u n ds in the tourist indu s t ry is subject to the following cond i t ions: ( 1) there must be a contribution in new fo re ign exchange or impor ted equ ipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked f u n ds to be used and (2) the investor must unde r take not to request t ran s fer for at least five years of that part of the cap i tal financed by means of the blocked fund s. Blocked f u n ds used in th is m ann er are considered as fo re ign cap i tal imported und er the Law for the Encou ragement of Foreign Investments. A por t ion of 75 per cent of any holder's blocked f u n ds can be transferred to the Blocked Currencies 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Fund at the Central Bank, from which nonresidents may receive credits for their pa r tner companies' inves tment requirements in Turkey, provided the permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Dividends and profits derived from these credits are blocked and are non- transferable. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance w i th the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Tu rkey (1959) may be used either pa r t ia l ly or who l ly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. However, invested f u n ds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer da te established under the Agree- ment, except for inves tment in export indus t r ies or in other industries ea rn ing foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annua l ly. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Invest- ments is accorded preferen t ial trea tmen t. All or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates regis- tered on the books of the companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign na t iona ls, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign na t iona ls and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Minis- try of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancellation of the gu a r an- tees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Tur- key (including those of an agricultural n a t u r e) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded addi- tional preferential treatment. Foreign investments out- side the petroleum sector may be made "under the monetary regulations," in which case the investor does not enjoy any transfer facilities for earn ings or liquidation proceeds. Transactions in securities, inc lud ing their export and import, require approval when nonres ident interests are involved. There are special facilities for the acquisition by Turkish citizens work ing abroad of Tu rk ish shares and bonds. Nonresidents and Turkish nationals wo rk ing abroad are no longer permitted to open demand and time accounts with commercial banks in convertible Turk ish liras, carrying an exchange guarantee of the Central 414 Bank. On existing accounts, the exchange rate guaran tee is l im i ted to the amount of deposits held on March 1, 1978. In addition, authorized banks with deposits exceeding LT 2 b i l l ion or w i th exchange proceeds exceeding US$30 m i l l ion are permitted to incur an overall foreign exchange position (in currencies pur- chased and sold by the Central B a n k) of up to US$20 million. Since 1978 arrears have developed in respect of repayments of ma tu r ing convertible Turkish l ira deposits and on August 29, 1979 a rescheduling agreement was reached w i th the foreign commercial banks. With the exception of borrowing by the Government f rom foreign governments or government agencies and f rom in terna t ional institutions, all private sector and public sector borrowing abroad is regulated. The total amount of private and public sector borrowing abroad f rom private sources, including suppliers' credits, is determined in an annual program by the M in is try of Finance, which also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The M in i s t ry of Finance, a f ter consultation with other ministries if appropriate, is authorized to approve such credits and to issue a guarantee of the t rans fe rab i l i ty of the foreign exchange. It is the responsibility of the in termed ia t ing bank to guarantee the repayment in liras. Turkish borrowers pay that bank the relevant commissions, and expenses up to 1 per cent. Regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance specify that the ma tu r i ty of such credits must not be less than two years, and the rate of interest must not exceed the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) by more than 2.25 per cent. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be pre- sented for m i n t i ng by the State M in t. Gold may be imported freely, provided it is sold to the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M in is try of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and i n d u s t r i al users. Changes during 1979 January 1. It was announced that Turkish nationals would be allowed to leave the coun t ry for tourism only once every three years and must exchange at least US$300 and no more than US$500 at the official exchange rate. January 27. A new import regime was announced. Guarantee deposits for imports were raised from 15-30 per cent to 25-40 per cent. Importers using the "cash against goods" system of payment for imports were requested to deposit 50 per cent of the Turkish lira value ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the imports at the time of application for the import license and the remaining 50 per cent at the time of customs clearance. The Ministry of Trade banned the importation of certain luxury items, including coffee. February 27. Commercial banks were required to surrender to the Central Bank half of their foreign currency receipts from the conversion of export pro- ceeds and workers' remittances, instead of 25 per cent. February 28. The Central Bank announced the sus- pension of foreign exchange transfers for import pay- ments until March 19. March 2. The conversion requirement of US$300 for international transit through Turkey by road was abolished. March 30. Exporters were requested to repatriate foreign exchange proceeds within 45 days rather than the 60 days previously permitted. April 10. With a view to reducing cross rate d i f fe ren- tials, the official buy ing rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from LT 25.0 per US$1 to LT 26.5 per US$1, and the selling rate from LT 25.5 per US$1 to LT 27.0 per US$1. Rates for other officially quoted currencies were also adjusted. An effective exchange rate of LT37.1 per US$1 was established for workers' remit- tances and receipts from tourism, through the intro- duction of a 40 per cent premium on these transactions. An additional premium on purchases of exchange of LT 10 per US$1 was granted for the period Apr il 10 to May 9, 1979 and one of LT 5 per US$1 for the period May 10 to June 9, 1979. April 10. Exporters of manufactures and mining products, who, since October 1977, had been entitled to retain 25 per cent of export earnings, were permitted to retain 50 per cent of such earnings to be used for the import of inputs for export production or to be trans- ferred, at a freely determined rate, for use by other industrialists. April 11. Turkish entrepreneurs employing Turkish workers abroad were instructed to transfer half of the incomes of those workers to Turkey. June 11. New buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were established at LT 35.0 and LT 35.7, respec- TURKEY tively, per US$1. These basic rates applied only to purchases of foreign exchange resulting f rom exports of certain agricultural products and to purchases or sales of foreign exchange in respect of exports, re-exports, or imports of crude petroleum, petroleum products, and chemical inpu ts for the production of fertilizer. All other purchases or sales became subject to a premium or levy of LT 12.1 per US$1, resulting in effective rates of LT47.1 per US$1 buying and LT 47.8 per US$1 selling. The previously existing separate rate for sales of foreign exchange to residents for travel abroad was, in effect, un if ied w i th the new premium rate. July 18. Officially quoted rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar were adjusted to eliminate broken cross rates (see entry for December 20, be low). July 25. A Working Party of the OECD Consortium on Turkey reached agreement on the rescheduling of interest and principal on official and officially-guaranteed credits and loans contracted prior to J anu a ry 1, 1978. August 9. The ratio of earnings which Turkish en trepreneurs employing Turkish workers abroad were instructed to transfer to Turkey was reduced from 50 per cent to 30 per cent. September 11. Authorized banks were required to surrender to the Central Bank half of the foreign cur- rency receipts acquired from the exchange earnings of manu fac tu re rs and miners and 75 per cent of the foreign currency receipts acquired from all other trans- actions (see entry for February 27, above). September 20. Exporters were requested to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds w i th in 60 days rather than 45 days as previously allowed. September 26. Agreements with foreign commercial banks regarding the rescheduling of convertible Turkish lira deposits and the restructuring of bankers' credits became effective. December 20. Officially quoted rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar were adjusted to eliminate broken cross rates. December 28. Imports from and exports to Rhodesia were no longer prohibited. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling, wh ich is pegged to the SDR at U Sh 9.6600 = SDR 1. Uganda applies margins of not more than 1 per cent in terms of the fixed relationship between the Uganda sh i l l ing and the SDR. The Bank of Uganda does not deal in foreign currenciesl other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. The mid-rate of the Uganda shilling for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is deter- mined by the Bank of Uganda on the basis of the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 the official buy ing and selling rates were U Sh 7.33073 and U Sh 7.33303, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for deutsche mark and pounds sterling are determined on the basis of the appropriate cross rates for the U.S. dollar in the New York market on the previous day. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies2 and base the ir rates on the previous day's closing rates against the U.S. dollar in New York, except for Kenya sh i l l ings and Tanzania shillings, which are dealt in at par. Authorized banks may freely deal forward w i th customers in ster- ling, U.S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export con- tract and that the term of the forward contract does not exceed three months; contracts for longer periods requ ire exchange control approval. The Bank of Uganda charges a commission of 0.125 per cent selling and 0.250 per cent buying; authorized foreign exchange dealers impose a service charge of 1 per cent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the M in is t ry of Commerce. The M in is ter of Commerce has powers to p roh ib it imports and exports. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts w i th the central banks of Kenya and Tanzania, which are settled in U.S. dollars. Authorized payments, in c lud ing payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to resi- dents of foreign countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica may be made in Uganda sh i l l ings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other currency except Rhodesian currency that is appro- priate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts 1 Foreign cu r renc ies a re all c u r r e n c i es o t h er shilling. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche m a r k, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the former Sterling Area other t h an the Uganda sh i l l ing. the U g a n da t h an 416 from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings f rom an External Account in Uganda or in any con- vertible currency. Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Certain settlements with Bu rund i, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through spe- cial accounts. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of fo re ign countries are designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other Exter- nal Accounts, and w i th . the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for paymen ts to nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign cur- rencies from authorized dealers. Non t rans fe rab le funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to p r ior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable begin- n i ng five years f rom the date of purchase. Subject to ind iv idu al permission, such balances may also be used for paymen ts to residents not related to export transac- t ions. All Blocked Accounts must be held w i th the Uganda Commercial Bank. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports are controlled through foreign exchange allocations and import licensing. A Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee in the Bank of Uganda meets each week to consider applications for foreign exchange in respect of imports. Allocations are made on the basis of available funds and a government priority l i st of impo r ts, e.g., imports of industrial raw materials and spare parts. Import licenses, which are required for all imports, are issued to ind iv idual importers by the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade (UABT ), operating u n d er the supervision of the Ministry of Commerce. Impo r ts n o rm a l ly must be purchased directly f rom the coun t ry of o r ig in. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be for- warded to the exchange control authorities w i th in six mon ths from the date of payment. There has been some accumu la t ion of arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda, and payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. For- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution eign exchange for tourist travel is not being granted at present. Expatriates working in Uganda may obtain allo- cations for travel outside East Africa at the time of their overseas leave. Foreign exchange is not released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad except for secondary technical education. Children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonnationals working in Uganda on overseas terms, nonnational mis- sionaries, and other special cases are exempted from these restrictions. Facilities exist whereby salaried for- eign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to one third of their gross monthly earnings, to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the con- tract. Transfers of dividends and profits are subject to special regulations; thus, foreign-owned companies must retain in Uganda at least 20 per cent of the profits made in any business year, and they are not allowed to remit interim dividends. Certain current payments are in arrears. The export of Uganda banknotes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers to Kenya and Tan- zania may take out U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. All exports require licenses and may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. The Uganda Tea Board has a monopoly over the export of tea, the Coffee Marketing Board over the export of coffee, and the Lint Marketing Board over the export of raw cotton. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot- note 2) must be collected within six months of exporta- tion and sold to an authorized bank for Uganda shil- lings. Coffee, cotton, copper, and hides and skins are subject to export duty. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda banknotes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that returning residents may bring in U Sh 100 a person. Travelers may freely bring in bank- notes denominated in specified currencies and foreign currency travelers checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted and those to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Foreign assets must be deposited with an authorized depositary, except that residents of Uganda may be granted exemption in respect of specified former Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally transfer their assets up to the equivalent of UGANDA U Sh 50,000. A fu r th er t rans fer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 20,000 upon each ann iversary of the emigrant's departure is allowed. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or be held on deposit with the Uganda Commercial B ank; such funds become transferable a f ter five years. The income from such investments is transferable dur ing the period when the funds are blocked. Foreign investment is permitted in Uganda with or without government participation. Certain industries, such as public utilities, transportation, telecommunica- tions, shipping, and the marketing of key commodities, are wholly reserved for government ownership. In other key industries, such as textiles, brewing, animal feed manufacture, the dairy industry, and tourism, the Gov- ernment pre-empts 55 per cent of the ownership but accepts private investment from both domestic and for- eign resources. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the invest- ment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964; in normal circumstances, approved status is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in speci- fied types of production requires approval under the Licensing Act of 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents f rom normal trading operations and dis- tributed by companies operating in Uganda are, in principle, transferable. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, without specific exchange control approval. With minor exceptions, prior exchange con- trol approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resident in Uganda which is controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 500 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the fol- 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA lowing from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or sil- versmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coin. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coin are issued restric- tively and only to goldsmiths. Changes during 1979 May 16. The United States lifted the embargo on U.S. trade with Uganda. June. A series of measures was introduced: ( 1) A For- eign Exchange Allocation Committee, composed of senior officials of the Bank of Uganda, was set up to consider all requests for foreign exchange; (2) all import licenses of private importers were revoked by the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade; (3) the requirement of prior import deposits was abolished; (4) the use of foreign exchange for tourist travel was prohibited until fu r th er notice; (5) the Ministry of Finance announced the reactivation of the Central Tender Board to award contracts, mainly in connection with the rehabilitation of the economy; and (6) the Bank of Uganda announced that foreign exchange would be available for secondary technical education abroad. July. The Ministry of Finance announced its desire to reach agreement with Uganda's major creditors on the suspension of external public debt service payments for the remainder of the year. (Most creditor govern- ments acceded to this request.) September. The economic and social policy statement of the Uganda National Liberation Front specified those industries that would be government owned and those in which some government participation would be required. The Foreign Investment Decree of 1977 was repealed. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 per cent around the official rate. The U.S. dollar is the in terven t ion currency, and the Currency Board publishes daily buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On December 31, 1979 the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.7640 and Dh 3.7680, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Board sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into fore ign exchange transactions at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is a swap facility at the Currency Board which the commercial banks may use to purchase or sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one mon th, and three months. Maximum limits of US$20 million outstanding for each bank and of US$5 million in pur- chases a day are in effect. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration requirements for inward or outward transfers. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the authorities of the Emirate concerned. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited.2 No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. There are no bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. tmports and Import Payments Imports of products manufac tured by foreign com- panies blacklisted by the Arab League are prohibited. 1The seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fujairah. 2 In addition, all imports from and all exports to these countries are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. V i r tua l ly all other commodities may be free ly imported w i thout an indi- v idual import permit, but on ly licensed parties can enter the import trade and an importer can import on ly the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for paymen ts in respect of permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds V i r tu a l ly all commodities may be exported freely, w i thout an export license, to any destination. Each Em i ra te establishes its own export regulations. The proceeds f rom exports need not be repatriated or sur- rendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cu r rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from invisibles All paymen ts for current invisibles may be made free ly. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and br ing in any amount in fore ign or domestic banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Profits on foreign capital invested in the Un i ted Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Gold Residents and nonresidents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They may also, without a perm i t, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade purposes may be undertaken only by licensed parties. Gold bullion is exempt f rom import duty but jewelry is not. Changes during 1979 May 3. The issuance of general trade licenses and licenses to represent foreign firms was limited to citizens of the Un i ted Arab Emirates or to firms fu l ly owned by citizens of the United Arab Emirates. A two-year ad jus tment period was granted. May 5. The arrangement coord ina t ing fixed exchange rates for the currencies of the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, and Bahrain in terms of the U.S. dollar was discontinued following the decision by Qatar to revalue its currency against the U.S. dollar. June 28. The exchange rate of the U.A.E. dirham against the U.S. dollar was adjusted from Dh 3.84 = U.S.$1 to Dh 3.80 = US$1. Subsequently there were four fu r ther adjustments and by December 31, 1979 the rate against the U.S. dollar was Dh 3.7666 = US$1. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The authorities of the United Kingdom do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange mar- kets, except for currencies maintaining a fixed relation- ship with sterling. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to smooth out disruptive fluc- tuations in exchange rates. The closing selling and buying rates in the foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1979 were US$2.2240 and US$2.2260, respectively, per £1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coin at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control With effect from October 24, 1979 exchange control was abolished, except for controls on transactions w i th Southern Rhodesia. This exception also was removed with effect from December 13, 1979. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Depart- ment of Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made free ly. For import licensing purposes countries outside the United Kingdom are divided into 11 groups: the ACP Area ,1 the CEFTA Area,2 the Community Area,-"' the Dollar Area,4 the Far Eastern and Western Area,5 the Medi- terranean Area,0 the OCT Area,7 Romania, the State 1The ACP Area comprises Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Bo tswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, F i j i, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, G u y a n a, Ivo ry Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Ma law i, Ma l i, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Gu inea, Rw a n d a, Sao Tome" and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Volta, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia. 2 The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, F in land, France, Federal Republic of Germany and Berlin (We s t ), Iceland, Republic of Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland. 3 The Community Area comprises all EC member states. 4 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 5 The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and United States. 420 Trad ing Area,8 the Residual Textile Area,9 and all other countries. With the exception of certain textile goods,10 most imports are admitted under an Open General Import License w i thout restriction, w i th the fo l low ing exceptions as at the end of 1979: (1) f rom all countries, two com- modities or groups of commodities;11 (2) from the Do l lar Area only, one group of commodities; (3) from the non-CEFTA countries only, one commodity; (4) f rom Roman ia only, one group of commodities; and ( 5) f rom the State Trading Area only, ten commodities or groups of commodities. Ind iv idual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the au thor i ty of the Open General Import License; some items are subject to surveillance licensing under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to appli- cants providing certain information. Most articles sub- ject to specific import licensing can be imported in l im i ted quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, i.e., without limit as to quan t i ty or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mu t ton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than bu t ter and cheese are subject to minimum impo rt prices enforced through autonomously imposed va r iab le import levies. Imports of many other agricul- t u r a l, ho r t i cu l tu r a l, and livestock products are subject to EC regulations. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Sterling banknotes may be dispatched to nonresidents against «T he Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Spain, Tunisia, and Turkey. 7 The OCT Area comprises Belize, British Antarctic Territory, British Ind ian Ocean Territory, British V irg in Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Djibouti, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Poly- nesia, French Sou thern and Antarctic Lands, Gilbert Islands, Mayotte, Mon tse r ra t, Ne ther lands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curasao, St. Eu s ta t iu s, St. Maar ten, and Saba ), New Caledonia and Dependencies, New Hebrides, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and M ique lon, Solomon Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuva lu, Wallis and F u t u na Islands, and West Indies Associated States (An t igua, Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and St. Christopher-Nevis-Anguilla). * The S ta te T rad ing Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic and Be r l in ( E a s t ), Hunga ry, Democratic Kampuchea, Nor th Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. " The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territories o ther th an A lge r ia, A rgen t ina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Gua tema la, H a i t i, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Jo rdan, Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Mexico, Nicaragua, P a k i s t a n, Pa raguay, Peru, Ph i l ipp ines, Singapore, Southern Rhodesia, S ri Lanka, Sy r ian A r ab Repub l ic, Tha i land, U r u g u a y, Yugoslavia, and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Med i te r ranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State T r ad ing Area. 10 The restrictions on textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Aus t ra l ia, Canada, New Zealand, or the United States. 11 Cocoa and cocoa preparations from all sources require a specific license to ensure compliance w i th the International Cocoa Agreement. The skins of certain rare animals, most primary whale products and a number of o ther w i ld l ife products, inc lud ing raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and p lumage, also cannot be imported without an import license issued by the appropr ia te depar tmen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution payment in sterling or in any foreign currency. For any type of travel U.K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and travel agents such foreign exchange as they may require without limitation. The cost of accom- modation, fares, etc., can be paid for without l im it in the United Kingdom. Under arrangements agreed with certain banks, per- sonal checks may be cashed abroad up to £50 a check, if backed by check cards. Credit cards may be used without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in sterling or foreign currency notes. Residents may retain unused travel exchange expressed in foreign cur- rency after return to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports are free of export control and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisibles may be retained or may be sold for sterling. British and other banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers by resi- dents of the United Kingdom into the beneficial owner- ship of residents of other countries. All proceeds f rom the realization, redemption, or ma tu r i ty of sterling capital assets (including direct investments) are remittable at the official market rate of exchange. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries may be made freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased residents and of capital payments under life and other insurance policies taken up by non- residents with resident insurance companies. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing abroad may transfer all their assets on departure from the United Kingdom. Repatriates who, having been resident in the United Kingdom, return to take up residence in any other country may transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the market rate of exchange. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the United Kingdom by nonresidents or abroad by residents. However, cases involving the takeover of existing U.K. companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of British industry may be subject to consideration under the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manufac- tur ing undertakings, but these powers have never been used. There are no restrictions on transactions in sterling or foreign currency securities, which may be exported or imported, without formality. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying UNITED KINGDOM agents in respect of interest, dividends, and capital pay- men ts on securities registered in the names of nonresi- dents may be dispatched abroad freely. Banks may f ree ly accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in the ir foreign currency business or convert them into sterling. Gold Gold bu l l ion and gold coin are not subject to control in the United Kingdom. Gold sovereigns are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins which are legal tender have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or which, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. A license is required f rom the Department of Trade for the export of gold ( and other) jewelry, etc., containing diamonds. The export of gold in manufac tured form over 100 years old and valued at £4,000 and over also requires a license from the Department of Trade. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. The U.K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. Changes during 1979 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accordance with EC decisions, directions, and regu- lations. January 19. All restrictions on the lending of sterling by U.K. residents to nonresident-controlled U.K. com- panies were removed except in cases where the bor- rower was primarily a vehicle for portfolio investment in securities or property. January 25. The minimum limit for export contracts qua l ify ing under the Export Credits Guarantee Depart- ment's bond support scheme was lowered from £ 500,000 to £250,000. June 12. The Government announced a number of exchange control relaxations as a first step in the progressive dismantling of the exchange control system. The principal measures, which took effect on June 13, were as follows: (1) Official exchange was to be made freely available for new outward direct investment up to an amount of £5 million a project a year. (2) The restrictions on the reinvestment of profits earned over- seas by subsidiaries and branches of U.K. companies were abolished. (3) Foreign currency allocations were increased for travel (the allocation for tourism was raised from £500 to £1,000 a person a trip and for business travel from £100 to £200 a day and from £3,000 to £5,000 a trip) and emigration allowances and allocations for cash gifts were increased; purchases of real property abroad were no longer subject to the investment premium; and for the purchase and main- tenance of overseas property the annual allocation for 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM a family was set at £100,000. (4) The requirement that 115 per cent cover should be maintained for overseas portfolios financed by foreign currency bor- rowing was abolished; henceforth, official exchange would be made available for meeting interest payments on such borrowing. (5) All controls on the import of, and dealings in, gold coin and medals were abolished. July 5. The restriction imposed in 1976 on the use of sterling by merchants to finance third-country trade was relaxed. July 18. The Government announced that the remain- ing restrictions on outward direct investment would be removed with effect from July 19; steps were also taken to liberalize outward portfolio investment. The principal measures were as follows: ( 1) Official exchange would be available without limit for all outward direct invest- ments; foreign currency borrowing effected at any time to finance such investments would be eligible for repay- ment with official exchange. (2) Official exchange would be available for investment by U.K. residents in most securities denominated and payable in the currencies of other EC countries, and in foreign currency securities issued by international organizations of which the United Kingdom was a member, including those issued by EC institutions and the International Bank for Reconstruc- tion and Development. (3) Foreign currency borrowing by U.K. residents to finance outward portfolio invest- ment, which had been outstanding for at least one year on July 19, would be repayable with official exchange. (4) U.K. residents holding foreign currency securities that were classified as "restricted securities" would be permitted to reinvest the sale proceeds of such securities in any other foreign currency securities. October 23. The Government announced the removal of all remaining exchange controls with effect from October 24, except for those in relation to Southern Rhodesia, which were simplified. Portfolio investments were wholly freed, as was dealing in gold. The require- ment that foreign currency securities be deposited with authorized institutions was abolished. November 15. Section 2 of the Southern Rhodesia Act, 1965 lapsed. However, although the economic sanctions order was thus not renewed, trade between the United Kingdom and Southern Rhodesia remained subject to controls, and the restrictions against Southern Rhodesia under exchange control provisions remained in force. December 13. With the lifting of sanctions against Southern Rhodesia, the remaining trade controls were removed by means of an amendment to the Import, Export and Customs (Defence) Act, 1939. The remain- ing exchange controls also were abolished. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31,1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authonties intervene when necessary to counter dis- orderly conditions in the exchange markets; in recent years such intervention has been confined to the spot market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury deals with license applications involving financial or commercial trans- actions directly or indirectly with Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, and Viet Nam or their nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations and the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries as well as accounts of the People's Republic of China blocked under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations as of May 6, 1971,1 accounts of Czechoslovakia, Estonia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Latvia, and Lithuania, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regula- tions, and accounts of the Iranian Government and its instrumentalities blocked under the Iranian Assets Con- trol Regulations of November 14, 1979, as modified by subsequent regulations. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are generally established and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified dairy products are adminis- tered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. A global import quota on sugar has been maintained since 1974 at a level of 7 million short tons annually, which is above normal imports of about 5 million tons. Allocations and licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are issued by the Department of Energy. For items subject to export control—other than crude petroleum and petroleum products—the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of the People's 1 All blocked accounts of the People's Republic of China were unblocked on January 31, 1980, in accordance with the agreement concerning the settlement of claims, as amended. Republic of China, Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, Iran, North Korea, and Viet Nam. Most current transactions involving the People's Republic of China are authorized, except those involving strategic goods, or assets of the People's Republic of China which were blocked as of May 6, 1971.1 Payments to Cuba for support of rela- tives in Cuba, for purposes of cultural exchange, and for purposes of travel to and in the United States by Cuban nationals are permitted, as are payments to Viet Nam for purposes of support remittances to close relatives. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Cuban, Kampuchean, North Korean, and Vietnamese origin are prohibited under Treasury regula- tions, unless specifically licensed. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products from Iran are prohibited. Import quotas are in effect for (1) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most dairy products, and peanuts; (2) certain fish and certain potatoes (tariff-rate quotas); and (3) sugar (nonrestrictive). Also, quotas may be imposed by the President under specified con- ditions on certain types of meat. Among the quantitative import quotas, all except those for peanuts, cotton and certain cotton products, butter oil, and sugar are on a country-of-production basis. Quotas on imports of stain- less and alloy tool steel are being phased out.2 In addi- tion, imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are subject to an import entitlement program and import license fees. Certain dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the GATT Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and to 21 bilateral textile agree- ments negotiated under the Arrangement's provisions. These agreements restrict trading partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States. In 1979 the United States negotiated new such agreements with four exporters (the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Japan, and Macao). The United States imposed unilateral quotas on imports of certain textiles and apparel f rom South Africa, which is not a member of the MFA. The agree- ments provide for orderly expansion of trade while at the same time recognizing U.S. concerns in the cate- gories affected by imports. As of the end of 1979, no limitations were applied to imports of crude petro- leum and petroleum products (except those from I ran ), but these were generally subject to import licenses and a goal that imports should not exceed 8.2 million barrels a day. Imports of fresh, frozen, or chilled beef, veal, mut- ton, and goat's meat are restricted through voluntary restraint agreements (12 bilateral agreements and one memorandum of understanding), as an alternative to the imposition of mandatory quotas under the Meat Import 2 These quotas expired on February 13, 1980. 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Act of 1964. Imports of a number of manu fac tu red products are also effectively restricted by bilateral agree- ments or by the mu l t i la teral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries (e.g., clothespins, shoes, tele- visions, and specialty steels). Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Mun i t ions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammun i t ion to the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Eastern Europe, Democratic Kampuchea, No r th Korea, South Africa, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Licenses are required for exports of crime control and detection equipment to all countries except other mem- bers of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO ), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce administers controls on exports directly from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Department administers controls on exports to certain areas of goods of foreign origin by fore ign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. nationals.) All exports to Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, Iran, North Korea, and Viet Nam (except phonograph records, publications, and, to Cuba, l im i ted g i ft parcels) are subject to ind iv idual validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require ind iv idual vali- dated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than members of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), certain Arab states, Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, and Viet Nam, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a fu ll year's shipment. The licensing requirements applicable to Hungary, Poland, Romania, and Yugo- slavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries. Under the authority of the Export Adm in is t ra t ion Act of 1979, the President can suspend the export of goods for reasons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although every effort is made to make sparing use of such authority. For agri- cultural commodities, such as wheat, sorghum, soybeans, and soybean oil, exporting companies participate in a voluntary reporting system that is designed to improve market information and to allow for more orderly exporting and, thereby, lessen substantially the need for government intervention. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from, Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the authori- ties, instrumentalities, or controlled entities of Iran and the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, North Korea, and Viet Nam, which are 424 permitted only under license. U.S. residents are allowed to remit up to US$500 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba and US$300 a quarter to close relatives in Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries, and specific licenses are available for certain transactions in con- nection w i th cultural exchanges between the United States and Cuba. Receipts from Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, Nor th Korea, and Viet Nam are pro- hibited, except for travel receipts from Cuban nationals v i s i t ing the United States. Individuals leaving or enter- ing the coun try with more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, travelers checks, money orders, and /or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to the customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In add i t ion, inward and outward direct or portfolio invest- ment is generally free of any other fo rm of approval requirement. Investments involving ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking regula- tions. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with, or involving, the People's Repub l ic of China (see footnote 1 ), Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, and Viet Nam. In addition, there are certain reporting requirements for travelers en te r ing or leaving the country when they are carrying in excess of US$5,000 in cash or negotiable instruments (as well as corresponding reporting requirements for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the m a i l s ). Certain payments and transfers to the Govern- ment of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled entities are also prohibited. In addition, ownership of U.S. farm- land by foreign na t iona ls must be registered with the Federal Government. Member banks are discouraged by the Federal Reserve Board f rom soliciting or encouraging placement of deposits by U.S. residents at their foreign branches, unless such deposits are placed to serve a definite, neces- sary purpose outside the United States. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to ind iv idual currencies, are not subject to regu- la t ions or regulatory l im i ta t ion. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) involving Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, and Viet Nam. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coin, with the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same country exceptions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country excep- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tions. Gold may be freely imported except from the countries mentioned above and except counterfeit gold coins. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quan- t i ta t ive restriction but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 per cent. There is no du ty on gold ore, bullion, or coin. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of en try into the United States. Changes during 1979 January 1. A new system of calculating import fees on sugar based on the difference between the adjusted world market price and US$0.15 a pound was in tro- duced. January I. A three-year consultation agreement w i th Japan came into force under the provisions of the GATT Multifiber Arrangement. January 3. The President's authority to waive the imposition of countervailing duties on imports lapsed. (It was retroactively extended on March 28.) January 4. Following a determination of in ju ry, the ta r i ff on imports of bolts, nuts, and large screws was raised by 15 percentage points for three years. January 12. The Treasury imposed countervailing duties on certain imports of bicycle tires and tubes f rom Korea and of unwrought zinc f rom Spain. The Treasury adjusted the countervailing duties in force on imports of iron and steel chains and parts thereof from Italy and of bottled green olives, v i tam in K, and nonrubber foot- wear from Spain. January 17. The Treasury imposed a coun te rva i l ing du ty on imports of nonrubber footwear from Argentina. January 26. An orderly marke t ing agreement covering certain color television receivers and components imported from Korea came in to force fo l low ing a Presidential proclamation. Under the agreement, ship- ments of fu l ly or pa r t ia l ly assembled sets were l im i ted to 153,000 from February 1 to October 31, 1979 and to 136,000 du r ing the sub sequent eight months. February 8. The President established a global quota l im i t ing imports of wood and plastic clothespins to two m i l l ion gross annua l ly over a three-year period. February 26. Pursuant to his authority under the Meat Import Act of 1964, the President issued a proc- lama t ion suspending the l im i t a t ion of certain meat imports du r ing 1979. March 1. The list of products covered by the Gen- eralized System of Preferences was revised. Duty-free treatment was withdrawn from 124 items when imported f rom certain developing countries. Some 108 products, on which du ty-free treatment had previously been w i th- drawn, were redesignated as eligible for such trea tmen t, a fu r ther 21 products were added to the list for the first time, and 4 products were w i thdrawn f rom the list. March 2. The Treasury issued new regulations pro- v id ing that bank deposits and certain other funds of the UNITED STATES People's Republic of China, Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, North Korea, and Viet Nam and blocked under Treasury regulations must be held in interest-bearing accounts. March 12. An agreement was reached w i th Japan to fac i l i ta te U.S. leather exports. March 21. The Treasury found that imports of viscose rayon staple fiber from F in land and France were dumped and were caus ing in ju ry; an an t idump ing duty was imposed. March 22. The Treasury imposed a countervailing duty on imports of ampicillin trihydrate f rom Spain. The Treasury revoked the countervailing duties (previ- ously wa ived) on imports of nonrubber footwear, leather handbags, and leather apparel from Uruguay. The coun te rva i l ing d u ty on certain textile products f rom U ruguay was also revoked w i th retroactive effect from February 16. March 28. The U.S. Congress extended the Presi- dent's authority to waive coun terva i l ing duties retro- actively to January 3, 1979. April 6. The imposition of import fees and ta r i f fs on petroleum and petroleum products was temporarily sus- pended und er a Pres iden t ial proclamation. April 10. The Treasury revoked the coun te rva i l ing du ty on impor ts of cheese f rom Austria. April 12. The United States signed the proces-verbal con ta in ing the results of the Tokyo Round of Multi- lateral Trade Negotiations. The Treasury modified the coun te rva i l ing du ty in force on imports of X-radial tires f rom Canada. April 13. The Treasury found that imports of bicycle t ires and tubes from Korea were dumped and were caus ing i n j u r y; an an t idump ing du ty was imposed. April 13. The Comptroller of the Currency adopted an in terpre t ive ru l ing regarding the application of s ta tu tory lend ing l im i ts (10 per cent of capital funds i n c l u d i ng capital surp lus) to loans of national banks to fo re ign governments and their agencies. The ru l ing set out c r i t e r ia to be applied in de te rm in ing whether pub l ic agencies and ins t rumen ta l i t ies were sufficiently inde- pendent of the government to wa r rant treatment as a separate borrower. The ru l ing was based on means and purpose tests. The means test required that the bo r row ing en t i ty had resources or income of its own su f f ic ient over t ime to service its obligations. The pur- pose test required that the proceeds of the loan to the government en t i ty must be used by the entity in its no rmal operations and for the purpose specified in the l end ing arrangement. April 18. The Treasury announced that the amount of gold for sale at its monthly auctions would be reduced from 1.5 m i l l ion ounces to 750,000 ounces. May 8. The Treasury revoked the countervailing du ty on imports of textiles and apparel f rom Colombia. May 11. An agreement on the settlement of m u t u al claims was reached between the Un i ted States and 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES the People's Republic of China. The agreement cov- ered claims of U.S. nationals against the People's Republic of China arising from certain measures of the Government of the latter on or after October 1, 1949 and claims of nationals of the People's Republic of China against the United States arising from the block- ing of assets by the U.S. Government on or after December 17, 1950. The Government of the People's Republic of China agreed to pay to the U.S. Govern- ment US$30 million on October 1, 1979 and US$50.5 million in five equal annual ins ta l lmen ts start- ing on October 1, 1980 in f u ll and final settlement of such claims. The U.S. Government agreed to unblock on October 1, 1979 the assets blocked a f ter December 17, 1950. May 15. The Treasury imposed a countervailing du ty on imports of high wet modulus viscose rayon staple fiber from Sweden. May 15. A trade agreement between the United States and the People's Republic of China was initialed. The agreement provided for the extension of most- favored-nation treatment to the People's Republic of China. May 15. The prohibition on imports from Uganda was lifted. May 16. The Treasury reduced the trigger prices for investigations of possible dump ing of imports of steel by 1.4 per cent. May 17. The Treasury reduced the countervailing duties in force on imports from Brazil of castor oil products, nonrubber footwear, cotton yarn, and scissors. Duties were fu r ther reduced on July 3 and on Sep- tember 28. May 18. The Treasury found that imports of per- chlorethylene from Belgium, France, and Italy were dumped and imposed antidumping duties. June 4. The Treasury imposed countervailing duties on imports of certain indus tr ial fasteners f rom Japan. June 12. The President replaced the existing system of quotas on stainless and alloy tool steel with a transi- tional quota system providing for progressively larger bimonthly quotas. The transitional quota system would expire on February 13, 1980. June 13. The Treasury found that imports of viscose rayon staple fiber from Italy were dumped and were causing injury; an antidumping duty was imposed. The Treasury found that imports of sugar from Belgium, France, and the Federal Republic of Germany were dumped and imposed antidumping duties. June 14. New Federal Reserve Board regulations governing banks operating outside their own state in areas clearly related to international or foreign business ("Edge Act Corporations"), issued in conformity with the International Banking Act of 1978, permitted foreign investment in such corporations. 426 July 13. The Treasury imposed countervailing duties on imports from Pakistan of cotton hosiery, cotton thread, cotton yarn cloth, and cotton garments. July 15. The President announced a program to reduce oil imports. The main elements of the program were (1) the establishment of an import ceiling for oil at the 1977 level; (2) the use of presidential authority to set import quotas at levels below those agreed at the July Tokyo summit; (3) a commitment of funds to develop alternative energy sources; (4) con- gressional action to require utilities to reduce oil consumption; (5) the establishment of an Energy Mobilization Board and a conservation program; and (6) the creation of an Energy Security Corporation. July 26. The President signed into law the 1979 Trade Agreements Act implementing the results of the Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. July 27. The Treasury imposed a countervailing duty on imports of amoxicillin trihydrate from Spain. August 7. The United States and the Dominican Republic concluded a bilateral textile agreement under the Multifiber Arrangement. August 17. The United States and Haiti concluded a bilateral textile agreement for three years. August 22. The Treasury imposed countervailing duties on imports of canned tomatoes and tomato con- centrates from the European Communities which it had found to be subsidized. August 22. The United States and Japan extended their bilateral textile agreement for three years. September 1. New Treasury rules liberalizing pay- ments by U.S. Government departments to persons in the People's Republic of China became effective. The new rules did not affect blocking restrictions under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations. October 1. The Export Administration Act, which expired on September 30, 1979, was renewed until September 30, 1983. The renewed Act provided for the U.S. Government to review every three years export control policy toward individual countries when these destinations are covered by multilateral controls, and every year when covered by unilateral controls. Under new rules, the Secretary of Commerce was to establish a commodity control list in consultation with the Secretary of Defense. The new law also laid down guidelines on the use of export controls for foreign policy purposes, and introduced gradual changes in export licensing procedures. October 1. The United States and the People's Republic of China agreed to postpone the unblocking of Chinese assets in the United States un t il January 31, 1980. October 15. The Treasury revoked the antidumping duty on imports of water circulating pumps from the United Kingdom. October 16. The Treasury announced that future gold auctions would not follow a regular monthly pattern and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution that fu tu re sales would be subject to variations in amounts and dates. October 26. The Treasury found certain leather footwear imported from India to be subsidized and imposed countervailing duties. November 12. By Presidential proclamation, the import of crude oil from Iran, or of products originat- ing from such oil, was prohibited. November 14. Certain payments and transfers by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction which involved the Government of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled entities were prohibited. This action, including subse- quent amendments, effectively blocked all Iranian Gov- ernment assets in the United States. November 16. The Treasury issued a general license authorizing foreign branches and subsidiaries of U.S. firms to exercise any right of set-off to which they were entitled against blocked Iranian assets held by them. November 19. The Treasury unblocked Iran ian foreign currency deposits held by foreign branches and subsidiaries of U.S. firms. The Treasury also issued general licenses authorizing certain limited exports to Iran (such as medical supplies, food, and clothing), and permitting transfers by Iranian entities to U.S. persons through U.S. bank ing facilities for payment of obligations to U.S. persons. November 20. Imports of some nonelectric cook- ware from Italy, Japan, and Spain were found by the International Trade Commission to be causing in ju ry. (Tariffs on these products were raised on Janua ry 2, 1980.) November 20. Exports of strategic goods to Iran were made subject to the issue of a license validated by the Department of Commerce. UNITED STATES December 16. Economic sanctions against Rhodesia were lifted. The Treasury announced that all prohibi- tions on transactions with Rhodesia had been revoked, but that subpoena power would be retained for purposes of investigation of past violations. December 17. The United States signed the Agree- ment on Technical Barriers to Trade (Standards Code), the Agreement on Government Procurement, the Agree- ment on Interpretation and Application of Articles VI, XVI, and XXIII of the General Agreement (Code on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures), the Arrange- ment on Bovine Meat, the International Dairy Arrange- ment, the Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement (Customs Valuation Code), the Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures, the Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft, and the Agree- ment on Implementation of Article VI of the General Agreement (An t idump ing Code). All these agreements emerged from the Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. December 18. The Federal Reserve Board announced that effective immediately it would no longer purchase bankers' acceptances or allow them to be used as collateral at the Federal Reserve discount window if the documents involved indicated that the Iranian Government or any of its controlled entities was party to the document or to the underlying transaction. December 18. The United States and Macao con- cluded a bilateral textile agreement under the Multi- fiber Arrangement. December 19. The Treasury announced licensing policies governing payments under advised letters of credit where Iran or Iranian entities were parties to the account and governing stand-by letters of credit where Iran or Iranian entities were beneficiaries. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Upper Volta is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the in te rven t ion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The off ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f rom the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange ma rket and the fixed rate between the French f r anc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per m i ll for t ran s fe rs f rom countries outside the West A f r i c an Mone tary Un ion and one of 2.50 per m i ll for t rans fe rs to such countries.2 Banks levy a commis- sion of 2.50 per mill on t rans fe rs to all countries outside the West A f r i c an Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Upper Volta's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Terri- to r ies) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun t r ies whose b ank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign coun- tries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury and In terna t ional F inanc ial A f fa i rs in the Directorate-General of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the M in is t ry of Finance. The approval au thor i ty in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, fo rwa rd exchange cover, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, w i th in l im i ts specified in the exchange control regula- tions, to authorized in termed iar ies. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either directly or th rough banks, financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion, and notaries public, any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to fo re ign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Commerce and Prices in the M in is t ry of Commerce, Indus tr ial Development, and Mines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the impor ter or 1 The CFA f r a nc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 428 exporter himself and, when settlement takes place with a coun t ry outside the former French Franc Area, are visaed by the customs administration. Prescription of Currency Since Upper Volta is an Operations Account country, settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA f rancs, French francs, or the currency of any Opera- t ions Account country. Current payments to or f rom The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are normally made in West A f r ican accoun t ing un i ts through the West African C lea r ing House. Certain settlements with the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Ghana are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France, or the coun t ry concerned, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs (or in other currencies of the fo rmer French Franc Area) through Foreign Accoun ts in Francs. All settlements w i th Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations p e r t a i n i ng to nonresident accounts are based on those app l ied in France. BCEAO banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouaga- dougou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the c red i t ing to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, w i th the va lue of BCEAO banknotes mailed directly by au thor ized in termed iar ies to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports from coun- tries in the former French Franc Area may in principle be made freely, although, exceptionally, special regu- lations may be issued. Imports shipped from and orig- in a t ing in EC countries, with minor exceptions, are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports f rom other countries are subject to licensing. Impor ts f rom non-EC countries outside the former French Franc Area are admitted in accordance with an a n n u al import program, determined each year by the Directorate-General of Commerce and Prices. Under th is program, global quotas are established for specified commodities and these require import licenses. Imports f rom Ghana are subject to special regulations. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 per cent and an import surcharge of 6 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All import transactions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their v a lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses or impo rt certificates en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but at the earliest eight days before shipment if a documen tary credit is opened, or eight days before payment is due if the commodities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account, if such a payment has to be made prior to the import. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion are empowered to make paymen ts to foreign countries, on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv i- dends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may purchase exchange equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a tr ip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in- ing af ter re turn to Upper Volta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business pur- poses is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a m ax imum of CFAF 400,000 a tr ip. Resident travelers to fore ign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French bank- notes, and bankno tes of other Operations Account coun- tries. Resident travelers to other countries of the fo rmer French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonres ident travelers may freely take out fore ign bankno tes up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 175,000 or any larger amoun t, if declared upon en try or acquired by d r aw ing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, or by exchange of foreign trav- elers checks, etc. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than banknotes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, subject to sub- mission of documen ta t ion. Finally, they may take out f ree ly up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of Operations Account coun- tries. UPPER VOLTA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the fo rmer French Franc Area may be made free ly but for statistical purposes certain agr icu l tural products requ ire a license f rom the Directorate-General of Commerce and Prices. Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports to all other coun tr ies are permitted freely but some requ ire a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account coun t ry must be surrendered w i th in two months of the date on which the payment falls due ( the due date stipulated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after a r r ival of the goods at their des t ina t ion ). All export transactions re la t ing to foreign countries must be domi- ciled w i th an authorized bank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange comm i tment and subm it a customs certifica- tion. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 per cent and a statistical du ty of 3 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun tr ies from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in two mon ths of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or f rom Rhodesia or South A f r i c a. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the fo rmer French Franc Area. Resident travelers must declare to the customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they b r ing in and must surrender these to an au thor ized bank w i th in eight days a f ter re tu rn. Capital A ll cap i tal movements between Upper Volta and Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrow ing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Upper 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Volta. Such operations require pr ior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guaran tee f rom the Upper Volta Govern- ment and (2) shares that are s im i lar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Upper Vo l ta has already been authorized. W i th the exception of controls over fore ign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West A f r i c an Mone- tary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are m a in t a in ed also over impo r ts and exports of gold, over the so l ic i t ing of funds for deposit w i th fore ign p r iva te persons and fore ign firms and ins t i- tu t ions, and over pub l ic i ty aimed at p lac ing f u n ds abroad or at subscr ib ing to real estate and b u i l d i ng operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in th is paragraph apply only to transac t ions and not to the associated payments or collections. All inves tmen ts abroad by residents of Upper Volta require pr ior au thor iza t ion by the M in i s ter of Finance.•"• Foreign direct investments in Upper Vo l ta4 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance before they are made. The M in i s ter has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the dec lara t ion d u r i ng which he may request postponement of the project. The fu ll or par t ial l iqu i- da t ion of e i ther type of inves tment also requ ires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Upper Voltan inves tmen ts abroad or fo re ign inves tmen ts in Upper Volta, must be reported to the M in is ter of F inance and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct investments constitute inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms opera t ing in Upper Volta are required to have Upper Voltan par t ic ipa t ion in their capital of at least 51 per cent in vital or p r io r i ty sectors and at least 35 per cent in all others. The sale to resi- dents of Upper Volta of securities of foreign companies opera t ing in Upper Volta requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this au thor iza t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indus t r ial firms to finance transactions 3 Inc lud ing those made th rough foreign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. 4 Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of fore ign companies. 430 abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports f rom Upper Volta, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Finance to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount out- s t and ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one bor- rower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the no rmal market rate and that the proceeds are immed ia te ly surrendered by the sale of foreign cu r rency on the exchange market or debited to a For- eign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special au thor iza t ion of the Minister if the loan itself was sub- ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f rom special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, ac t ing on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treatment for fo re ign investment in Upper Volta. Two preferential categories (A and B) are established, in accordance w i th wh ich preferen t ial treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 20 years. The benefits under Category B are more l iberal than those under Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Government, and the en terpr ise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional impo r tance to the development of the country. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior au thor iza t ion by the Directorate of the Treasury and In te rna t ional Financial A f fa i rs. Exempt from this requ i rement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic le s ); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1979 April 12. The National Investment Commission was established (Decree No. 79/146). June 21. A tax clearance certificate was established. It was required, inter alia, for assignment of annual import quotas. December 12. The protocol of December 14, 1978 establishing a French-Upper Voltan Joint Commission was ratified (Decree No. 79/479). December 21. A financial cooperation agreement between Upper Volta and the Federal Republic of Ger- many was ratified (Decree No. 79/476). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. Until October 1978 Uruguay maintained a dual exchange market —the commercial market and the fi- nancial market —but the two markets were unified de facto in October 1978 when the Central Bank an- nounced that it stood ready to buy and sell any amount of exchange at rates to be adjusted in variable amounts at frequent intervals. The Central Bank indicated the rate of depreciation for the following three months; in subsequent announcements, the daily exchange rate was notified through the second quarter of 1980. With effect from November 28, 1979 the commercial and financial markets were unified de jure. Buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on Decem- ber 31, 1979, were NUr$8.443 and NUr$8.464, respec- tively, per US$ 1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. An additional effective exchange rate may arise from the application of an exchange tax on the proceeds of exports of hides. The proceeds from exports must be surrendered to the Central Bank. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the Bank of the Republic, commercial banks, and banking houses. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through author- ized banks, banking houses, and the Bank of the Repub- lic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transac- tions in the market. Exchange houses must be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with •which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Free Trade Association (LAFTA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecua- dor, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina and Brazil. Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration prior to the placing of orders abroad. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. An import declaration must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic before the goods are shipped. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are 0, 10, 30, 49, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 82 per cent and are payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration. The Bank of the Republic also collects consular charges. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for imports from LAFTA countries, for imports made under the credit agreements signed by the Central Bank of Uruguay and the central banks of Argentina and Brazil, for imports of agricul- tu ral inputs, for imports by the public sector, and for imports under the temporary admission scheme. Most imports are subject to a customs ta r i ff (impuesto aduanero unico —IMADUNI) and a service charge (tasa demovilizacion de bultos—TMB), collected by the Cus- toms Office. Tariff rates vary between 0 per cent and 25 per cent, but most goods are charged at a rate of 20 per cent. The service charge is 2 per cent of the c.i.'f. import price for most imports. There are exemptions to the IMADUNI and the TMB, and also d i f fe r ing (lower) tariff rates for certain products. All imports are subject to con- sular charges payable in new pesos and calculated on the f.o.b. value. These charges are 7.5 per cent for pri- vate sector imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead; 0.25 per cent for imports of the same commodities by the state oil, alcohol, and cement enterprise (AN CA P ); 0.5 per cent for other imports by ANCAP; and 4 per cent for all other private sector imports. Import surcharges and consular charges are in most cases calculated either on an officially assessed price (aforo), which usually is expressed in U.S. dollars a k i logram, or on the actual c.i.f. value. Purchases with an exchange rate guarantee require a peso deposit at the t ime of application; the exchange is provided on the due date and the applicable exchange rate is that on the date of application for the guarantee. The facility is ava i lab le for imports by the private sector, except imports of capital goods. Payments for Invisibles There are no l im i ta t ions on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of exports of hides are subject to tax. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrend- ered in fu ll to the Central Bank upon receipt. At the end of 1979 the prescribed maximum surrender periods were 6 months for traditional exports and 14 months for non- t rad i t ional exports. Surrender periods are counted from the date on which the shipment authorization lapses (norma l ly 10 days) when no advance surrender is made or f rom the date of the advance surrender. Tax credit certificates (reintegros) are granted to many exports 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY up to 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Exports of cattle on the hoof (except when specially authorized) and specified minerals (including iron, copper, zinc, alumi- num, and nickel) are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the proceeds f rom invisibles, and there are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relat- ing to investments registered under the Foreign Invest- ment Law. The amortization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be transferred abroad until three years af ter the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad, provided that the trans- actions are registered. Gold may be exported only if accompanied by evidence of prior importation. Changes during 1979 January L Central Bank Circular No. 953 of Decem- ber 26, 1978 eliminated reserve requirements on any increase in foreign (as well as domestic) currency deposits in 1979 over the average daily balance of such deposits dur ing December 1978. January 10. Decree No. 21/979 eliminated tax cred- its to exporters of hides and by-products and to sup- pliers of tanned leather and leather soles used in the manu fac tu re of leather exports. The same decree increased tax credits on exports of leather products. January 24. Decree No. 47/979 extended un t il December 31, 1979 the exemption from duties and sur- charges of imports of machinery for the manu fac tu re of shoes and other leather goods, wool apparel, and certain other products. January 31. Decree No. 55/979 established addi- t ional tax credits on those exports that might become subject to countervailing import duties. The tax credits would be applied to exports to countries other than those impos ing countervailing duties and would amount to an additional 5 per cent through January 1980 and would be then reduced to 2.5 per cent through Janu- ary 1981, when they would be eliminated. January 31. Law No. 14.868 authorized the Execu- tive Power to levy a tax on exports to which counter- v a i l ing or similar duties might be applied in the country of destination. February 16. Decree No. 98/979 set tax rates on exports of leather and textile products to the United States. The taxes were to be applied to the f.o.b. value of the exports and would be collected at the time of 432 shipment, at rates rang ing from 3.687 per cent to 6.43 per cent for leather manufac tures and from 3.05 per cent to 32.39 per cent for textiles. February 23. Decree No. 125/979 established that impor ts of cereals, oils, and a number of other food- s tu f fs, including beef, poultry, and fresh vegetables, would be subject to the 10 per cent m in imum import surcharge and the basic 25 per cent customs tariff ( IMADUN I ). All other import charges and fees were eliminated. March 9. Decree No. 152/979 provided that export taxes (detracciones) for certain hides would be fixed in U.S. dollars per un it volume exported and would be computed at the exchange rate prevailing on the da te of l iqu ida t ion of the contract. March 12. Decree No. 154/979 extended until December 31, 1979 the exemption from customs taxes and surcharges granted to imports of machinery for the m a n u f a c t u re of wool yarns and combed wool. In addi- t ion, the service charge (TMB) on such imports was reduced to zero and port fees were lowered to 30 per cent of preva i l ing rates. The reduction in port fees was also applied to imports of machinery for the manufac- tu re of shoes and other leather goods, wool apparel, and certain other products. March 20. Law No. 14.871 authorized the Executive Power to exempt from duties and charges imports of goods and equipment effected by companies awarded contracts for projects financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the Inter- Ame r ican Development Bank. March 27. Decree No. 180/979 established that the schedule for the gradual reduction of import protection, as outlined in Decree No. 736/978 (December 26, 1978), would be accelerated for products whose prices were raised in excess of increases justified by cost factors. March 27. The daily rates for the new peso were published through the end of 1979. March 27. Central Bank Circular No. 970 of March 26, 1979 eliminated the system of adelantos, which provided exporters with subsidized credits in local currency against a temporary advance surrender of export proceeds. April 18. It was announced that, with effect from March 1, 1979, imports of edible oils became subject to a temporary 15 per cent surcharge; at the same time these imports were exempted f rom the customs ta r i ff and the service charge ( IMADUNI and TMB) and f rom consular and port fees (Decree No. 217 /979 ). April 25. Decree No. 230/979 amended the provi- sions of Decree No. 98/979 (see entry for February 16, above) by ad ju s t ing the tax rates for men's and ch i ldren's outer garments made of fabrics f rom domestic yarns to 22.63 per cent, and for fabrics f rom cotton, synthetic fibers, or artificial fibers to 3.03 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 8. Central Bank Circular No. 976 eliminated, w i th effect f rom May 11, 1979, the existing reserve requ i remen ts on foreign currency deposits by residents and nonresidents at commercial banks, and on non- residents' deposits at banking houses. The obligation on bank ing houses to keep reserves (100 per cent in the form of cash or deposits at the Central Bank) on tem- porary foreign currency liabilities to residents was maintained. May 9. Decree No. 258/979 exempted imports of fresh, frozen, and refrigerated beef and mutton from any import duties and fees until November 30, 1979. May 16. Decree No. 271/979 established a tempo- rary regime to be applied to imports of wheat, dur ing the period May 1 to December 15, 1979, and for corn and sorghum, in the period May 1, 1979 to February 28, 1980. Imports of wheat were made subject to a 20 per cent surcharge dur ing May, which would be reduced to 18 per cent for the remainder of the period, and the surcharge for corn and sorghum was set at 18 per cent for the whole period. May 22. Decree No. 278/979 reduced from 90 per cent to 40 per cent the import surcharge for most prod- ucts classified in the tariff code under the subgroup of paper and cardboard in rolls and sheets. For a few products under this category, the surcharge was reduced to 25 per cent. Off ic ia l ly assessed prices (aforos) were eliminated for all products included in the subgroup. May 29. Decree No. 250/979 reduced the tariff duties on automobile kits and clock parts. July 10. The daily rates for the new peso were pub- lished for the first quarter of 1980. July 19. The Central Bank withdrew the guarantee that it would stand ready to sell foreign exchange at the preannounced rates. August 13. Decree No. 434/979 reduced the maxi- mum rate of the import surcharge from 110 per cent to 90 per cent. At the same time, some of the provisions for lower import charges that were established for cap- ital goods by Decree No. 736/978 of December 26, 1978 were reversed. The 10 per cent m in imum sur- charge and the reduced port fee would no longer apply to imports of capital goods produced in Uruguay, but capital goods that were integral parts of a complete indus t r ial plant imported in toto would con t inue to bene- fit f rom the reduced rates. August 29. Decree No. 479/979 eliminated the mul- t ip le ta r i ff rates established by Decree No. 285/977 for certain goods, and set instead a 20 per cent IMADUNI rate and a 2 per cent service charge (TMB ). September 5. Decree No. 489/979 un i f ied the ta r i ff duties for crude and refined sugar at the fo l low ing rates: a 90 per cent impo rt surcharge rate, a 10 per cent cus- toms t a r i ff rate, a 2 per cent service charge, and a 4 per cent consu lar charge. URUGUAY September 5. Decree No. 490/979 accelerated the scheduled tariff reduction for certain items as a means of promoting a more adequate supply of these products in the domestic market; these included certain fresh fish, wheat flour, edible oil, paper products, raw materials for the textile industry, fabrics and clothing, soap, and i ron bars. This decree also increased the total ta r i ff on those paper products that had benefited from the reduc- tion of the import surcharge to 25 per cent (see entry for May 22, above). September 5. The total tar iff on banana imports was raised to 35 per cent. October 4. Decree No. 552/979 established a sur- charge rate of 10 per cent, a 20 per cent custom tariff rate, a 1 per cent service charge, and a 4 per cent con- sular charge for a number of food products, consumer goods, and machinery items not produced domestically. November 12. Central Bank Circular No. 996 elim- ina ted the system of preventa de divisas established in 1978 which allowed exporters to receive the fu ll peso counterpart at the current rate of exchange. All exporters would be required to surrender their foreign exchange earnings to the Central Bank through the bank ing system. November 15. Decree No. 650/979 established new import surcharges, customs tariffs, and service and con- su lar charges for some medical products, metal products, and musical instruments. The new rates amounted to- gether to a 35 per cent basic duty rate. November 22. The provision for levying a 40 per cent tax on profit remittances exceeding 20 per cent a year of invested capital of enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law was abolished; the exchange tax on exports of wool was also abolished. November 27. Central Bank Circular No. 1001 an- nounced that the Central Bank would stand ready to buy and sell foreign exchange at the preannounced rates w i thout any quantity limits, in effect un ify ing the com- mercial and financial foreign exchange markets. December 31. Decree No. 787/979 lowered sur- charges, tar iffs, and charges by 16 per cent of the dif- ference between the sum of all existing duties and the basic 35 per cent duty established by the tar iff reform decree. In addition, c.i.f. prices were established as the va lua t ion base for purposes of the import surcharges. However, the Minister of Economics and Finance was empowered to establish reference prices for valuation purposes for imports deemed necessary by that Ministry. The decree also included a tariff reduction to 35 per cent for a list of noncompetitive goods. December 31. During the year the buying and selling rates of the new peso were depreciated from NUr$7.036 and NUr$7.054, respectively, per US$1 on January 1, 1979 to NUr$8.443 and NUr$8.464, respectively, on December 31, 1979. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. do l la r, the in te rven t ion cur- rency, at Bs 4.2925 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar established by the Central Bank of Venezuela are Bs 4.28 and Bs 4.2925, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' selling rate to the public is Bs 4.30 per US$1. Exchange trans- actions arising in connection w i th the discharge of liabilities by fo rmer foreign owners or concessionaries of the Venezuelan hydrocarbon and iron industries take place at a selling rate of Bs 4.20 per US$1. The Central Bank's buy ing rate in transactions with the public sector (other than the hydrocarbon and iron ore companies) and in te rna t ional organizations in which Venezuela has a participation or interest is Bs 4.2925 per US$1.1 Buy- ing and se l l ing rates for certain other currencies2 are also o f f ic ia l ly quoted, based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar in ma rke ts abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Foreign banks may on ly sell foreign exchange that has not been obtained f rom the Cen t ral Bank. Exchange houses are pe rm i t ted to deal on ly in bank- notes, coin, and trave lers checks. Venezuela fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1, 1976. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the M in i s t ry of Development or the M in is try of Ag r icu l tu re and Livestock, depend ing on the commodity; for certain ag r icu l tu ral products, the prior approval of the Ag r i cu l tu r al M a r k e t i ng Corpora t ion must be ob ta ined before applications for export licenses are subm i t ted. The Super in tendency of Foreign Invest- men ts (SIEX) is charged w i th supervision over foreign inv e s tm ent in Venezue la, over contracts for the impor- ta t ion of foreign technology and the use of fore ign pa ten ts and t radema rk s, and over borrow ing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Paymen ts between Venezuela and A rgen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. 1 The Cen tral Bank does not sell fo re ign exchange to the public but does sell m inor amounts to its s taff and certain government officials, for t ravel expenses, at the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1. u Canad ian dollars, deutsche m a r k, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Jap- anese yen, Por tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss francs. 434 Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- h ib i ted. In addition, the import of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; these inc lude iron and steel products, motor vehicles, a large number of consumer durables, certain textiles, coffee, citrus f ru i t, bananas, pineapples, melons, salt, opium, cigarette paper, na tural pearls, and matches. Many other commodities also require import licenses. For protective purposes, quantitative restrictions are main- tained on some of these items, irrespective of origin, except for Andean Pact countries. Licenses are valid for alt countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. Import licenses for some goods are issued on the con- d i t ion that the importer has purchased domestic prod- ucts equal to a prescribed percentage of the quantity to be imported. All other commodities are free from import licensing. Import payments may be made freely. Imports for the government sector are controlled by a commission established by Decree No. 2166 (May 26, 1977) that has the power of prior authori- za t ion over all pub l ic sector imports. This authorization is needed in order to obtain letters of credit, exemption f rom import duties and, if necessary, financing. By Decree No. 2664 (April 28, 1978), the Foreign Trade Ins t i tu te was appointed as the technical coordinator of the commission. In accordance with the timetable issued by the And e an Pact Commission, contained in the Protocol of Lima, Venezuela adopted the m in imum external ta r i ff in 1978 (Decree No. 2772 of August 3, 1978). It has also agreed, in principle, to harmonize external t a r i f fs and eliminate all import duties on trade within the Andean subregion by December 31, 1983, in the prescribed annu al stages. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles may be made freely; pr iva te sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made f rom commercial banks or exchange houses. T ran s fe rs of profits and dividends are limited, in prin- ciple, to 20 per cent per annum of registered foreign capital, in accordance with Decision No. 103 of the Andean Pact. Resident and nonresident travelers must pay on depar ture a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; children under seven, foreign tourists, Venezuelan and foreign diplomats, and personnel of international organi- zations are exempted. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports of certain furs and hides, scrap metal, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are required for the export of many other commodities. For most commodities such licenses are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agricul- ture and Livestock. The export of gold and precious stones requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. There are no surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from fa l l ing below specified m i n im um amounts regardless of external prices. Eligibility for this subsidy is ma in ta ined even if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. The promotion of nontraditional exports in Venezuela takes two basic forms: first, the Export Financing Fund, established in September 1973, provides direct credit facilities at interest rates below those charged by other lenders, and it also lends in conjunction with commercial banks; second, the Export Incentive Law (September 1973) assists nontraditional exports through fiscal subsidies in the form of tax credit certificates. Under the Export Incentive Law, negotiable tax credit certificates with a two-year maturity are granted to exporters of nontraditional products (i.e., basically exports other than petroleum, iron ore, coffee, and cacao) that have a domestic va lue added greater than 30 per cent. These certificates can be held to m a t u r i ty and used to meet government tax liabilities, or can be traded in the local market at a discount. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles are freely dis- posable. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Cu r rency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coin other than gold coin. Capital All inward and outward capital t rans fe rs for or by residents are permitted freely. However, brokerage activity in Venezuela in shares or un i ts of fore ign investment trusts or mu tual f u n ds is prohibited. Foreign capital imported for investment purposes and all foreign credits must be registered with SIEX. Foreign direct investment is governed by Andean Pact regulations. Na tu ral gas and iron m in ing operations are reserved for the State, and foreign investment in the petroleum sector is prohibited. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or com- panies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The Gen- eral Bank ing Law authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or foreign physical VENEZUELA persons or companies. This law also regulates the activ- ities of foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for num isma t ic and inves tment pur- poses. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coin, medallions, and bars are free ly negotiated among licensed importers, exchange houses, and the pub l ic. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents but do not no rma l ly deal in gold w i th the public. Imports and exports of mone tary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses f rom the M in is try of Finance and in certain cases also f rom the M in is try of Development, while exports are licensed by the M in is try of Finance only. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the M in is try of Development as an indus t r ial user, but in practice imports and exports by private persons are perm i t ted f ree of license. Imports of gold coin and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are f ree of customs d u t y; all o ther gold impor ts are subject to du ty at v a ry ing rates. Changes during 1979 January 12. Ta r i f fs on metal products and steel tubes were increased (Reso lu t ions Nos. 2369 and 2370). January 19. Import ta r i f fs on prefabricated housing un i ts in tended for u rban development and authorized by the Na t ional Urban Development Fund were sus- pended un t il Ju ly 31. February 1. Imports of certain unassembled mechan i- cal p roduc ts were liberalized (Decree No. 3036). February 13. The tar iff on radio receivers was increased (Resolution No. 2464). February 20. The import of road cons t ruc t ion equip- ment was prohibited (Decree No. 3094). February 21. Tar iffs on textile y a rn and electrical fuses were increased (Reso lu t ions Nos. 2481 and 2482). March 2. Ta r i f fs on certain iron and metal products were increased (Resolution No. 2513). July 4. Imports of vehicles for agricultural use not produced locally were authorized (Resolution No. 2726). July 10. The Central Bank restricted borrowing by companies that were more than 50 per cent foreign or domestically owned. Foreign firms would be permitted to borrow on ly up to 40 per cent of the ir capital resources (paid-up capital and reserves) from banks domiciled in Venezuela. December 1. The ban on imports of color television sets was lifted. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on December 37, 7979) Exchange Rate System On May 3, 1978 the No r th Vietnamese dong and the South Vietnamese dong were w i thd rawn f rom circula- t ion and a new currency, the Vietnamese Dong, was introduced, w i th an o f f ic ial exchange rate of VD 2.66358 = SDR 1. Exchange rates of the dong for cer ta in fore ign currencies are quoted by the State Bank of Viet Nam ( the cen tral b a n k) on the basis of the average rate of the respective currency vis-a-vis the SDR. All paymen ts in convertible currencies are made at the official exchange rate. A prem ium of 50 per cent is applied to inward t rans fe rs and receipts f rom tou r is ts. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the State Bank. All foreign trade is a state monopoly and is adm in is tered by the M in is try of Foreign Trade, which authorizes the foreign trade transac t ions carried out by specialized state import-export corporations. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade upon application by the import-export corporations; licenses are granted only for impor ts and exports spec- ified in the Foreign Trade Plan. All fore ign exchange transactions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Trade transac t ions w i th member coun t r i es of the Counc il for Mu tual Economic Assistance ( CM EA ), A lb an i a, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, and No r th Korea are settled in rubles or r enm inb i. Non t rade transac t ions w i th coun t r ies w i th which Viet Nam has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements1 take place at exchange rates specified in these agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are pe rm i t ted to m a i n t a in non re s ident accounts either in fore ign currencies or in dong. Non- residents can freely reconvert in to foreign cu r rency and t rans fer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acqu ired aga inst fore ign currency. Imports and Exports An import and export p lan is d r awn up a n n u a l l y. Impo rt and export transac t ions are carried out by about 15 state import-export corporations. Some of these corporations have their own p roduc ing un i t s, wh i le others contract w i th supp ly enterprises. In p r inc ip le, the price received by the p roduc ing en te rp r ise bears no 1 At the end of 1979 Viet Nam had b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag reemen ts w i th ten countries t h at were not members of the IM F —A l b a n i a, Bul- garia, People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, Czechos lovak ia, G e rm an Demo- cra t ic Republic, Hung a ry, Mongo l ia, N o r th Korea, Poland, and U.S.S.R., and with six IMF members —Bangladesh, G u i n e a, Ma l i, Roman ia, Syrian Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 436 re la t ion to wo r ld prices, since the sale f rom the producer to the t rad ing corporation is a domestic transaction at prices set by the au thor i t ies. Nonetheless, given that goods for export are u su a l ly of a higher qua l i ty than those for the domestic ma rket and that a policy of expo rt incen t ives is being followed, goods for export command h igher prices. Imports effected by the state t r a d i ng corporations are sold in the domestic market at prices set by the authorities. All payments for trade t r a n s a c t i o ns need the au tho r iza t ion of the State Bank and are made th rough the Bank for Foreign Trade. Export receipts are normally channeled through the B ank for Foreign Trade and any other receipts from fo re ign trade have to be surrendered to the State Bank. Invisibles A ll transactions in inv is ib les require ind iv idual au thor i- za t ion by the State Bank. Foreign exchange is made ava i lab le upon au tho r iza t ion of the transaction. All t r av el abroad needs ind iv idu al au thor iza t ion and at present is l im i ted to official business for which all fo re ign exchange expenses are covered. Students abroad in nonsoc ia l ist countries who had le ft the country before A p r il 1975 may receive foreign exchange alloca- t ions as de te rm ined by the State Bank for each ind iv idual case. Receipts f rom transactions in inv is ib les have to be su r rende red to the State Bank w i th in seven days. The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of secur i t ies denom ina ted in Vietnamese cu r rency needs the special pe rm iss ion of the State Bank. Capital The Foreign Inve s tment Law provides for three fo rms of fo re ign inves tmen t: ( 1) inves tment in the produc t ion of goods in tended solely for exports; (2) jo int ven tu res between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese state econom ic o rg an i z a t ion; and (3) p roduc t ion -sha r ing p a r t n e r s h i ps for the exp lo i ta t ion of na tu ral resources. The share of fo re ign capital that is perm i t ted ranges f rom 30 per cent to 49 per cent for jo int ven tures, and up to 100 per cent for en terpr ises specializing in produc- t ion for export. There are guarantees of repa tr ia t ion of p ro f i ts and of proper compensation in the event of n a t i o n a l i z a t i o n. Gold The State Bank alone has au tho r i ty to purchase, hold, and se ll gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Physical persons are permitted to own jewelry and artistic and c u l t u r al objects of gold for domestic and personal use. Changes during 1979 No s ign i f icant changes took place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. Since Ju ly 6, 1979 the value of the tala in terms of the New Zealand dollar is determined by reference to a basket of currencies and to other factors that are considered impor tant in de term in ing that external value. Exchange rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the ir da i ly rates against the New Zealand dollar. On December 31, 1979 the buying and selling rates of the tala for the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, were WS$0.8976 and WS$0.9245, respectively, per US$1. There is an exchange levy of 1 per cent on gross sales of foreign exchange, giving rise to spreads in excess of 2 per cent in exchange transactions. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Monetary Board, but the daily administration of exchange controls and the exchange allocation system is entrusted to the Treasury Department, subject to the control and the instructions of the Minister of Finance and the broad guidelines la id down by the Mone tary Board. The M in is ter of Finance may delegate his au tho r i ty to the F inanc ial Secretary, who in tu rn may delegate part of his powers to the Secretary of the Monetary Division of the Treas- ury and to authorized banks. All payments to non- residents of Western Samoa requ ire the approval of the M in is try of Finance. The M in i s t ry has delegated to the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —powers to approve certain paymen ts up to any amoun t, and cer ta in other payments up to specified amoun ts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or f rom nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of security or health. Other commodities may be imported from any source. Each licensed commercial impor ter receives a quar ter ly allo- cation of foreign exchange, which may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited, except automobiles and certain other commodities requiring prior approval by the Monetary Board.1 The allocations are made by the Monetary Board and are communicated to the authorized banks which auto- matically provide the foreign exchange required for import paymen ts upon submission of documentary evi- dence. From October 1, 1979, imports purchased under open account arrangements are financed f rom current allocations even if payments are not due un t il a later period. Persons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance for imports of higher value. Private buyers of motor vehicles are required to lodge a downpayment of 50 per cent of the retail value with the importing agency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas con- tractual obligations and insurance, are approved auto- m a t i c a l ly by the authorized banks up to any amount or w i th in l im i ts determined by the M in is try of Finance. Payments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Remittances for study abroad are f ree ly authorized. The M in i s t ry of Finance approves up to any amount the t rans fer of income derived locally f r om pensions, rents, interest, and dividends by persons pe rmanen t ly resident overseas. Residents traveling over- seas for business or private purposes are entitled to a fo re ign cu r rency allowance equivalent to WS$50 a person a day, subject to a l im it of WS$2,000 a person a year. The M in is try of Finance grants supplementary a l loca t ions against evidence of genu ine need. Resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes, as part of the ir foreign currency allowance. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds V i r tua l ly all exports require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agr icu l ture and the Produce Marketing D iv is ion on grounds of low qua l i ty, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Copra exports are controlled by the Copra Board, cocoa exports by the Cocoa Board, and banana exports by the Banana Board. An export levy of 7 per cent is imposed on the f.o.b. va lue of cocoa and copra exports.2 Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks 1 Flour, sugar, m i lk products, and spare parts for motor vehicles may be imported freely outside the allocation system. From April 1979 perm i t ted imports of automobiles, except those by the Government and by nonresidents using their own fore ign exchange holdings, were re- duced from 15 to 12 a month. 2 The export levy on cocoa is activated at a price of WS$800 a ton and that on copra at WS$100 a ton. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA within a reasonable time after shipment. Where excep- tional circumstances exist, the Ministry of Finance may waive this requirement for certain export items. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must on return sell to the banks all foreign currency brought in. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but no domestic banknotes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Ministry of Finance, and capital received by residents must be surrendered. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by nonbank residents does require approval. The transfer of legacies from estates of deceased local residents to beneficiaries permanently residing overseas is approved up to a l im it of WS$ 10,000 a year. The authorized banks approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special fam i ly occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$200 a year for each family group. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act provides for the granting of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Minister of Finance; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes during 1979 January 6. The annual limit on travel allocations was raised from WS$ 1,000 to WS$2,000 with effect from January 10. January 9. Allocations of foreign exchange to licensed commercial importers were placed on a quarterly instead of an annual basis. Imports of rice, canned fish, and mutton flaps were brought under the allocation system. April 1. Foreign exchange allocations for the second quar ter of 1979 were reduced by 15 per cent; however, allocations to manufacturers importing raw materials, planters importing agricultural equipment, and importers of petroleum products remained unchanged. The num- ber of automobiles that might be imported by residents, other than by the public sector, was reduced from 15 to 12 a month. June 20. The exchange rate for the tala was depreci- ated by 15 per cent against all other currencies. The authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the tala against the New Zealand dollar were changed to $NZ 1 = WS$0.8875 and $NZ 1 = WS$0.9096, respec- tively, and against the U.S. dollar they were changed to US$1 = WS$0.8436 and US$1 = WS$0.8689, respec- tively. June 22. Following the devaluation of the New Zealand dollar on June 21, 1979, the exchange rate of the tala was adjusted against the U.S. dollar. The authorized banks' buying and selling rates were changed to US$1 = WS$0.8807 and US$1 = WS$0.9071, respectively. June 22. Tariffs on 11 basic foodstuffs were reduced by up to one third. July 1. Foreign exchange allocations for the third quar ter were raised by 7.5 per cent. July 6. It was announced that the exchange rate for the tala would be determined by reference to a basket of currencies and to other factors that were considered impo r tant in de te rm in ing its external value. July 12. It was announced that licenses would be required for the import of 17 items, including cigarettes, beer, timber, matches, roofing iron, paints, soap, sandals, and certain foodstuffs. Tariffs on 8 basic foodstuffs were reduced by up to 58 per cent. October 1. Foreign exchange allocations for the fou r th quarter were raised by WS$400,000 from the third quarter. The increased allocations might be used only for imports of rice, canned fish, and mutton flaps. Imports purchased under open account arrangements must be financed from current foreign exchange allo- cations even if payments were not due until later periods. 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 4.5 = US$1. On Decem- ber 31, 1979 the official buying and selling rates for spot telegraphic transfers were YRls 4.550 and YRls 4.575, respectively, per US$1. (An exchange rate of YRls 5.5 = US$1 is used for customs valuation pur- poses.) Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Ministry of Economy grants licenses for imports. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank for sta- tistical purposes only. All commercial banks deal in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.2 Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. All other imports require licenses, which are issued freely. In addition to a license, the importation of certain commodities requires the permission of certain government agencies. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who hold an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the local banks. A margin deposit of 20 per cent is prescribed against letters 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 There is a bilateral payments arrangement with Egypt which is inoperative. of credit opened for all imports. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent and a statistical tax of 2 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by banks; export licenses are not required. Exporters are not required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. All exports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent, and certain exports are subject to a duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Ministry of Economy. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired pro- portion of their net profits after taxes or of their capital. Certain tax and customs duty exemptions and conces- sions are granted for a period of five years to approved projects. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an import, export, or exchange license. Changes during 1979 No significant changes took place. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YD 1 = US$2.89524. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also o f f ic ia l ly quoted by the National Bank of Yemen (the sole commercial bank and authorized dea ler), w i th daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 31, 1979 the National Bank of Yemen's buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respectively, per US$1. Rates for all other prescribed currencies are quoted weekly; addi- tional adjustments are made when there are major changes in the market rates for these currencies in Lon- don and New York the previous day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the General Department for Exchange Control of the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has delegated cer- tain powers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of that Committee. The Ministry of Trade and Supply issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange trans- actions must be carried out through the National Bank of Yemen. Other dealers in foreign exchange, who may deal only in travelers checks and banknotes, are classified into ordinary money changers and secondary dealers. Ordinary money changers, whose principal business is to sell and purchase foreign exchange for their own account or for the account of the National Bank, are permitted to deal in currencies not on the prescribed list. Secondary dealers, such as hotels, travel bureaus, and retail stores selling tourist goods, are permitted to accept payment in foreign exchange only from their customers, and are required to surrender the receipts in foreign exchange to the National Bank no later than the following business day. While the authorized bank and money changers are allowed to charge a commission for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange as specified by the Committee, secondary dealers may not do so. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports (including those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain public corporations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). 440 Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the authorized dealer in accordance with prescription of currency regulations. All payments to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in prescribed currencies1 and surrendered to the authorized dealer. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited w i th proceeds from convertible foreign currency trans- ferred from abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with balances from other External Accounts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank drafts; the accounts may not be credited with payments in the form of foreign banknotes (unless they have been declared to the customs on en try), or with locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain specified cases). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad from External Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. The Foreign Exchange Committee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Subject to certain conditions, Yemeni nationals work- ing abroad may establish nonresident accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into foreign currency on demand. Imports and import Payments Imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require individual licenses. Goods originating in the Yemen Arab Republic are exempt from the licensing requirements. There is an annual import program. Importers may import certain goods with their own exchange; such imports require prior approval by the M in is try of Trade and Supply. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documen- tary draf ts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cooking oil, tea, and cigarettes. It is also the sole 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all govern- ment requirements, and most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties, except that the pro- ceeds of exports and re-exports financed originally by the authorized bank are subject to the surrender require- ment (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In all cases, exporters from the free zones are requ ired to under take to repatriate in convertible currencies com- missions, profits, and other expenses relating to the processing of goods in the zones and to surrender the currencies to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. Profit remittances abroad by foreign firms should not normally exceed 50 per cent of the accrued net profit in any one year. The basic exchange allowance for tour ism, which resi- dents may take up without app ly ing for exchange con- trol approval, is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a t r ip in travelers checks, drafts, and foreign notes and coin (50 per cent of this amount for children under ten ) .2 Allowances for medical trea tment abroad are no rma l ly granted up to the equivalent of YD 200 a person, w i th h igher amoun ts under exceptional c ircum- stances. Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of their total ea rn ings (net of taxes) according to the terms of the contract; other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries from abroad, are allowed to remit 70 per cent of their total earnings. All insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic banknotes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in travelers checks, foreign banknotes, or other foreign means of payment. Non- residents may take out any fore ign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are subject to ind iv idual licensing. All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen Arab Republic specified by the Foreign Exchange Committee, export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies w i th in six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon 2 The equ iva lent of YD 75 for D j ibou t i, E th iop ia, K uw a i t, Oman, Saudi A rab ia, Somalia, Yemen A rab Repub l ic, and the G u lf states. Travelers to the Yemen Arab Republic may a l terna t ive ly take out up to YRls 1,000 in Yemen rials. PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN receipt. Most of the proceeds of exports or re-exports to the Yemen Arab Republic may be surrendered in the national currency of the importing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- residents must be collected in foreign currency (or received f rom an External Account) and surrendered to the au thor ized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 per cent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equivalent to YD 50 a month or US$10 a day if the du ra t ion of their stay is less than one month. Capital V i r tua l ly all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are norma l ly permitted upon departure to remit their liquid funds to the ir country of pe rmanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Law for the Organization of Indu s t ry and the Promotion of Indus tr ial Investment may be granted exemptions from import duty and va r ious other tax fac i l i t ies. Beg inn ing five years after p roduc t ion has started, the net va lue of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of actual or book value, or sur- render or l iqu id a t ion va lue, whichever is less) is trans- fe rab le at the rate of 25 per cent a year; if, however, an expatriate national or a foreign investor encounters oper- a t ional d i f f icu l t ies, his capital may be retransferred six mon ths af ter en t ry. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad a f ter the firm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other gove rnment dues have been paid. Gold On ly the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed gold- smiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coin and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold in the fo rm of ornaments or num isma t ic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered gold- sm i ths require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply (General Department for Foreign T rade ); in cer ta in cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. Departing residents may take out gold ornaments not exceeding 10 tolas3 in weight, subject to reg is tra t ion in the ir passports. Arriv- ing fema le na t iona ls may b r ing in gold ornaments up to 25 tolas du ty free and up to an additional 25 tolas after pay ing import du ty at a rate of 30 per cent. However, a r r iv ing male nationals may br ing in gold ornamen ts up to 40 tolas a f ter pay ing import duty. Changes during 1979 No s ign i f icant changes took place. 3 One tola is equal to 180 grains troy or 0.4114 ounce. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The authorities do not ma in ta in the exchange rate of the dinar within announced margins and, therefore, all transactions, with the exception of those effected under the procedures set forth for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, below), take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. However, the authorities intervene in the foreign exchange market, when neces- sary, to ensure orderly conditions and to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the foreign exchange market in Belgrade on December 31, 1979 were Din 19.1342 and Din 19.1916, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.1 Administration of Control The Federal Assembly formulates the jo int economic policy of the country for each year based on the projec- tions of the balance of payments and the foreign exchange balance of Yugoslavia. These in turn contain the mutually adjusted projections of the balance of pay- ments and the foreign exchange balances of the republics and autonomous provinces, a* well as the foreign exchange expenditures and revenues of the Federation. A self-managing community of interest for foreign eco- nomic relations has been set up in each republic and autonomous province. Its members prescribe policies to be followed to achieve the agreed upon volume of exports of goods and services, as well as the procedure for borrowing and lending abroad, under internal self- management agreements. These agreements are con- cluded on the basis of uniform criteria prescribed by the Yugoslav Community of Interest for Foreign Eco- nomic Relations. The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade makes decisions governing commercial transactions and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade with pay- ments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the National Banks of the republics and autonomous prov- inces administer the exchange controls. The National Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank of which there are two types: (1) Fully authorized banks, which are permitted to engage in transactions with foreign countries and may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugo- slavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations ( inc lud ing the granting of guarantees). (2) Banks which are authorized to conduct foreign exchange opera- tions in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions abroad. Authorized exchange offices may only purchase foreign banknotes and travelers checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase foreign banknotes and travelers checks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trading undertakings) registered for this purpose. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their imports and exports through eco- nomic organizations which are authorized to engage in foreign trade transactions. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugo- slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies, and according to the procedures, set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has pay- ments agreements requiring settlements in U.S. dollars with Albania, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. Nonresident Accounts Foreign jur id ical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: for- eigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies or in dinars with f u l ly authorized banks in Yugoslavia; foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars, with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident juridical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.2 Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any con- vertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following currencies: Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 442 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the bank holding the account being pre- pared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain foreign juridical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugo- slavia or for retransfer to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Foreign juridical and physical persons may freely open nonresident accounts in convertible dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized and they may be debited freely for all payments in Yugoslavia and for transfer abroad in the convertible currency of the account holder's country of domicile. Nonresident jur id ical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his immediate family, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign juridical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties, from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pen- sions and disability allowances of persons who have emigrated from Yugoslavia, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected under specified conditions. Resident nationals may maintain foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con- vertible currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the foreign currency deposited and bear interest, which is paid in the same foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained indefinitely and may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugo- slavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or his immediate fam i ly; balances are not transferable to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav nationals residing abroad and former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco- nomic organizations registered as participating in foreign trade. Most major industrial producers are so registered, in addition to economic organizations that specialize in foreign trade. The import of certain basic foodstuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities licenses are not import YUGOSLAVIA required. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in three categories, largely in accordance with the manner in which exchange is made available: LB —liberalized goods; RK and DK— goods subject to individual quotas; D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are mainly raw materials, foodstuffs, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods. Protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quantitative restriction. Exchange for payments for imports from the convertible currency area is made available on the basis of self-management agreements concluded within the self-management communities of interest in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting coun- try. Payments for imports from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list DK) include raw materials, manu fac tu r ing components, equipment, and consumer goods. The quotas are estab- lished either in quantities (RK) or in dinars (DK ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by agreement among the economic organizations.3 Addi- t ional quotas may be allocated during the year if the enterprise to which the quota is allocated undertakes to increase exports. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, firearms and ammun i t ion, oil, drugs, na tural gas, and bitumen. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. For certain goods there is an additional requirement of a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1979 goods subject to this requirement comprised 71 LB items, 13 RK items, and 2 DK items. The items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and fruits, raw mate- rials, cocoa butter, fats and oils, raw cotton, textiles, and t in; the Secretariat may also prescribe direct impor- tation f rom the country of origin. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import, through registered importers, goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them, regardless of the import regime involved. Self-employed Yugoslav nationals may freely import machinery for small farms or equipment for handicraft production, up to 3 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed on among economic organizations within the Chamber of Economy according to projections of material balances for each commodity, which are based on the projected growth rates of production. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves or if the allocation decided upon does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribution. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Din 120,000 a shipment, and m anu f a c tu r ing components up to Din 40,000 a sh ipmen t. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of fore ign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals working abroad may import auto- mobiles, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with moun ted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, provided that these are imported through a registered enterprise and payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and fo re ign nationals are exempt f rom this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the fo l low ing circum- stances: when they re tu rn for permanent residence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indemnity received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had o r ig ina l ly been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad continuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 6 per cent tax-equalization charge are payable on all commodities not exempt f rom customs duty. In add i t ion, an import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue at the border has to be paid for all dutiable commodities, with the exception that the surcharge is levied at a reduced rate of 7-9 per cent for capital equipment for the development of basic p r ima ry product industries, for some raw materials, and for certain essential items, such as hides. Certain luxu ry goods are subject to an addi- tional surcharge of 5 per cent. Many agricultural com- modities are subject to var iab le import levies. There are special facilities for f u ll or partial exemption for pay- ment of customs duties on certain imports by Yugoslav workers re tu rn ing from abroad. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, inc lud ing t ranspo r ta t ion, are f u l ly liberalized. Foreign exchange to cover expenses abroad for export promotion is made freely ava i lab le to exporters. Pay- ments for other invisibles may be made f rom the remitter's own fore ign exchange f u n ds or f rom the foreign exchange accounts of organ iza t ions of associated labor on the basis of self-management agreements w i t h in the self-management commun i t ies of interest of the republics and autonomous provinces. Purchases of serv- ices abroad, as well as spare parts, fue l, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in in te rna t ional fre ight and pas- senger transportation, are liberalized. There is no exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, Yugoslav citizens are allowed to use balances from the ir foreign exchange accounts for tourist travel abroad. Under specified conditions, the following transfers may be effected abroad: payments for improving labor relationships, pensions, disability allowances and payments to recipients of an Order of 444 the Na t ional Hero, alimony payments, payments for court-ordered compensations or indemnities, the profits of foreign contractors perform ing capital construction work in Yugoslavia, 10 per cent of the proceeds from cultural, entertainment, sport, and other performances given abroad by groups or individuals, and transfers permitted by the Federal Secretariat for Finance. In add i t ion, copyright royalties are transferable abroad if such transfers are based on reciprocity and if foreign exchange resources have been provided. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are f u l ly transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a coun t ry with which Yugoslavia ma in ta ins a bilateral paymen ts arrangement, then such payment may be made only if the agreement in question provides for reciproc- ity. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval f rom the appropriate authorities in the republics and autono- mous provinces. Not more than Din 1,500 in domestic currency, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may br ing in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without dec lar ing it. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and other forms of economic cooperation w i th foreign countries, as well as through purchases on the foreign exchange market, is considered to belong to the par t icu lar organizations of associated labor that have taken part in its realization. An organization of associated labor may keep such foreign exchange in a fore ign exchange account, may sell it to an authorized bank, or may use it for its own payments abroad in accordance with the existing regulations. In principle, exports are free of control, except for cer ta in raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic market ( inc lud ing petroleum and petroleum derivatives and certain livestock), and certain other ma ter ia ls such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade ("accord- ance"). Such approval may be given for a group of commodities, or for all commodities to be exported w i th in a certain period (global app rova l ). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an und e r t ak ing to import f rom such countries or to export to other countries. Proceeds f rom exports must be repatriated w i th in 90 days f rom the date of exportation, unless specific exemp- t ion is granted. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The f u ll export proceeds may be credited to fore ign exchange sight-deposit accounts which the exporter ma in ta ins w i th an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currency. Exchange on these accounts may be used in accordance w i th self-management agreements w i th in the ind iv idual republics and autonomous provinces. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engineering serv- ices in payments agreement countries is subject to an "accordance" issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Exchange proceeds may be used for pay- ments abroad connected with the activities of the eco- nomic organization concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for capital construction work abroad. The exchange proceeds are not transferable to economic organizations other than those with which the recipients are cooperating in tech- nical and business matters, but they can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, while employed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "b i l ingual savings book," issued under specific arrange- ments between Yugoslavia and foreign banks, may with- draw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest-bearing fore ign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the f u ll amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of his immediate fam i ly; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained indefinitely. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital The organizations of associated labor and other social legal persons may borrow abroad in accordance with self-management agreements, concluded w i th in the commun i t ies of interest for foreign economic relations of the republics and autonomous provinces. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic organi- zations but only through jo int ventures; apart f rom exceptional cases, such foreign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organization's capital. Profit transfers are permitted up to one half of the joint venture's foreign currency earnings from exports of goods and services. Realized profits from investments in organiza- tions of associated labor in underdeveloped republics and the Province of Kosovo may be repatriated in f u l l. If the law governing joint ventures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a joint venture would continue to be applied du r ing the entire life of the investment contract, if the foreign investor so desires, or at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legislation could be YUGOSLAVIA applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish repre- sentational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated within 90 days. Residents are obliged to repatriate foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Economic organizations wishing to participate in foreign enterprises may be allowed to export the neces- sary capital under special conditions set by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Outward capital transfers by residents who are physical persons are not approved. Gold The National Bank in 1968 issued certain com- memorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coin in Yugoslavia, which may be sold to any authorized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold in accordance w i th the existing regulations on trade in goods and on control of articles made f rom precious metals. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the DK import regime; they may freely export gold jewe l ry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coin. Domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price which equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes during 1979 January 19. Regulations were published concerning the sale in Yugoslavia of Soviet Olympic gold, silver, and p la t inum coins (Off ic ial Gazette No. 3 ). January 19. Regulations were published relating to the conditions, cr i ter ia, and procedures for the alloca- tion of commodity quotas and foreign exchange quotas for imports of goods in 1979. April 13. Regulations were published establishing the 1979 commodity quota for gold (Official Gazette No. 13). April 21. An additional 5 per cent customs surcharge was levied on certain luxury goods inc lud ing alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, cosmetics, perfumes, decorative items of glass, porcelain, pearls, diamonds, jewelry, and precious metals and products thereof. April 27. The trade and payments agreement with Viet Nam (concluded on December 11, 1978) was rati- fied. It provided that all transactions with Viet Nam would be settled in convertible currencies. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA May 19. A new 50 per cent tax was introduced on certain imports and on domestically produced goods containing more than 50 per cent of imported raw materials. Among the products subject to the new tax were imported cognac, whiskey, vodka, rum, carpets, crystalware, precious stones, clocks, watches, some cos- metics, and playing cards. July 31. Under an agreement between the republics and autonomous provinces and the Federal Executive Council, imports by the republics and autonomous provinces for each of the three following product cate- gories would be limited over the remaining months of 1979. The categories were raw materials and inter- mediate goods, equipment, and consumer goods. The agreement provided that once the trade deficit for a particular republic or autonomous province had reached the planned level, the National Banks of the republics would not register any new import contracts in the particular product category, unless increased export receipts provided additional financial resources. August 10. Regulations were published concerning the issue of commemorative gold and silver coins to mark the eighth Mediterranean Games held in Split (Official Gazette No. 40). September 1. The preferential customs facilities for Yugoslav workers returning from abroad were lib- eralized. Workers who had spent two years abroad, or a total of 24 months within three years, were per- mitted to import, free of customs duties, household appliances up to a value of Din 50,000. In addition, they were permitted to import furn i ture and household effects, whether new or used, up to a value of Din 30,000. Workers who have spent four years abroad were permitted to import fu rn i tu re and household appli- ances up to a value of Din 100,000, normally within a period of 6 months of their return. Workers returning after ten years abroad might import, free of customs duties but within 12 months of their return, all their household appliances and furn i ture. These workers m ight also import, duty free, equipment up to a total value of Din 800,000 with a limit for each item of Din 300,000; such equipment might be used by the importer or others in independent economic activity. Workers who have spent only two years abroad might import equipment up to a value of Din 80,000; for equipment of a value of Din 80,000 up to Din 300,000, a 10 per cent duty would apply. Workers who have spent four years abroad might import equipment of a value up to Din 140,000, free of customs duties; a 10 per cent duty would be levied on additional equipment they might import up to a value of Din 300,000. December 28. Supplementary regulations were issued regarding conditions for the acquisition and use of dinar claims by nonresidents (Official Gazette No. 67). December 28. Regulations were published concerning the joint foreign exchange policy of Yugoslavia for 1980. 446 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Zaire is the Zaire which, since August 24, 1979, has been pegged to the SDR at SDR 0.3750 = Z 1, corresponding to Z 2.66667 = SDR1. Middle rates for the 17 currencies in which authorized banks are permitted to deal1 are fixed daily by the Bank of Zaire (the central b ank) on the basis of the SDR rate. On December 31, 1979 the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was Z 2.02468 per US$1. Two mining companies (BRITMOND and MELTAX) receive a preferential exchange rate of Z4.50 per US$1 for their exports of diamonds purchased from small-scale producers.2 Forward exchange transactions are pro- hibited. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to a commission charge and an exchange control fee. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has regulatory au tho r i ty over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize residents to hold foreign exchange and to use it to pay for certain goods and services. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP ), operating under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance, manages the external public and publicly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Government on the extension of govern- ment guarantees on loans contracted by public, semi- public, and private enterprises. In principle, no new external borrowing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zaire. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in the listed convertible currencies quoted by the Bank of Zaire.1 Special authorization for the acceptance of another currency may be given only in respect of cur- rencies that can be exchanged freely w i thout a discount. Except for working balances, all currencies received must be converted into a convertible currency. Pay- ments to nonresidents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies. However, certain settle- ments with Burundi and Rwanda are made through special accounts established under arrangements con- cluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these special accounts are settled quarterly in convertible currencies.3 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, B u r u n di francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 This rate was abolished with effect from February 1, 1980. 3 A bilateral payments agreement with Angola, signed on Decem- ber 22, 1979, has not yet been implemented. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zaires. Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may generally be debited only with the approval of the Bank of Zaire. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and international organizations established in Zaire, may be debited freely but may be credited only with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency and with payments made by the Government. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited freely; they may be debited free ly for transfers to accounts abroad or to Convertible Accounts in Zaires maintained by residents or to Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, for sales of foreign currency, and for sales of foreign currency against domestic currency. Nonresident Zairian nationals require special authoriza- tion from the Bank of Zaire to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Convertible Accounts in Zaires may be credited with amoun ts converted from foreign currency at the official rate, transfers from another Convertible Account in Zaires, or authorized payments by residents to non- residents; they may be debited freely for conversion in to foreign currency or for any payments in domestic currency. Such accounts may be held by both residents and nonresidents but must not be credited with pay- ments for exports of goods or services except for listed items exported to Burundi and Rwanda and exchange purchases from tourists from these countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to an allocation system (coeffi- cients de preaffectation) which limit each bank's imports of 15 specified consumer goods and pharmaceuticals to 33 per cent of its retained proceeds from exports. The coefficients for raw ma ter ia ls, in termed ia te goods, chemical products, spare parts, and u t i l i ty vehicles are 35 per cent and those for nonp r io r i ty items are 5 per cent.4 In add i t ion, since March 16, 1979 the Bank of Za ire has given au thor iza t ion that proceeds f rom invis- ibles may be applied to the importation of pr ior i ty goods. Certain banks have been authorized to allocate proceeds from invisibles for such payments. The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are ma in ly arms, ammun i t ion, and narcotics. The importation of specified luxury items ( inc lud ing certain automobiles, jewelry, 4 Formerly, 2 per cent was reserved for energy imports, but these amounts may now be used by the banks, at the ir discretion, for any type of import payment or payment for invisibles. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE and fu rn i tu re) is prohibited for reasons of economic policy. For the import of most commodities other than certain priority items (mainly foodstuffs, pharma- ceuticals, raw materials, and industrial spare pa r ts ), import licenses must be submitted to the Bank of Zaire for prior approval. The importation of certain textiles and clothing is prohibited for protective reasons, while import licenses for other items produced domestically, but not in sufficient quantities, are issued sparingly. All imports have to be paid for through confirmed irrevocable letters of credit. For most goods subject to license the importer must obtain a credit of at least 90 days; payments upon shipment are authorized pro- vided prior approval is requested from the Bank of Zaire and a 6 per cent rebate is obtained. Imports not subject to import licenses approved by the Bank of Zaire are subject to import declarations, which do not require the prior approval of the Bank. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of all imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign corres- pondents of the Office Zairois de Controle. Applications for import licenses are sent to authorized banks, which, after certification, forward them to the Bank of Zaire for approval. The import license applica- tion is then returned to the authorized bank for valida- tion. Import licenses validated by the authorized banks remain valid for customs clearance for a period of three months to six months, and the va l id i ty may be extended fu r ther if shipment has begun. Imports effected under bilateral aid arrangemen ts between Zaire and certain countries (Belgium, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United States) are governed by separate, specific provisions. Imports in general are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem and some are also subject to a turnover tax of 9 per cent. In addition, most imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to an import surcharge of either 5 per cent or 20 per cent ad valorem on the c.i.f. value. Certain import paymen ts have been delayed. These arrears have largely been centralized and the Bank of Zaire is in the process of settling them in accordance with an order of priority based ma in ly on their due dates. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are limited to 25 per cent of each bank's retained merchandise export earnings. All payments are subject to authorization by the Bank of Zaire. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents. Imports and exports between Zaire and ports in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the Scandinavian coun- tries must be shipped in vessels participating in the conference of the Associated Central West Africa Lines. Banks are not authorized to pay in foreign cur- rency the maritime freight on shipments that do not meet these regulations, unless an immediate discount 448 is obtained on the invoice; in the case of exports, banks are not authorized to validate export declarations unless these are marked accordingly. Banks may effect maritime freight payments in foreign currency at the t ime of shipment only for imports payable upon arrival. Maritime freight charges may be paid in Zaire in local currency when goods are transported entirely by the Compagnie Maritime Zairoise. Payments by expatriates for medical treatment abroad require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. All other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. However, the transfer abroad of salaries of foreign nationals is limited to 50 per cent of net salary. Transfers pertaining to cer ta in administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participa- tion have been suspended except where the transfer of such profits is expressly guaranteed by the Invest- ment Code or by bilateral agreements. Payments for commissions, management fees, and royalties are also suspended. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Zaire in domestic currency. However, residents of Za i r ian na t iona l i ty may travel by a foreign airline only with the permission of the M in is try of Transportation and Communication. Resident expatriates are, in general, permitted once a year to purchase in domestic currency a direct round-trip ticket to their country of origin. Za ir ian nationals traveling abroad on official missions may buy foreign exchange in amounts that depend on the duration of the journey and the seniority of the traveler. Private travelers may buy foreign exchange up to the equivalent in zaires of Belgian francs 30,000 for no more than four trips a year. This allowance and the allocation for medical expenses are temporarily susoended, and all official travel abroad must be authorized by the First Government Commissioner. For trips to Bu rundi and Rwanda tourists and house- holds residing in the border area are entitled once a month to purchase the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs. The export of domestic banknotes and coin is prohibited. Certain current pay- men ts have been delayed. These arrears also have largely been centralized and the Bank of Zaire is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. Arrears on interest payments to official creditors and commercial banks are the subject of consolidation agreements. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations require individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to approve such declarations. The declara- tion must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export declarations are normally ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. All exports other than those by the Generate des Carrieres et des Mines du Zaire (GECAM INES) and certain other specified companies must be made against confirmed letters of credit. Special provisions apply to the mineral produc- tion of GECAMINES, which is marketed exclusively by the Societe Zairoise de Commercialisation des Produits Miniers (SOZACOM) or its subsidiary, SOZAREX. On shipment, SOZACOM credits the account of GECAM INES with a provisional payment of a portion of the ship- ment's estimated value and with the balance of the proceeds upon execution of the sales contract. GECAMINES is allowed to retain provisionally up to 45 per cent of its export proceeds with banks abroad or in Zaire for meeting its own payments abroad, and must surrender the remainder of its proceeds as well as any end-of-month balances on retained earnings in excess of Belgian francs 800 million to the Bank of Zaire. SOZACOM and SOZAREX are required to surrender two thirds of the ir foreign exchange proceeds to the Bank of Zaire. Partial nonrepatriation and retention are also per- mitted for the metal exports of the Societe de Develop- pement Industriel et Minier du Zaire (SODIMIZA) and diamond exports of the Societe Miniere de Bakwanga (M iBA ). For diamond exports, two th irds of the value established at a preliminary examination in Zaire must be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Receipts from agricultural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of validation. Banks are required to surrender to the Bank of Zaire 30 per cent of export receipts surrendered to them. Banks may authorize imports of raw materials and spare parts up to 10 per cent of the respective exporter's export proceeds. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, cacao, tea, ivory, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. All exports are subject to a statistical tax of 1 per cent ad valorem, and all commodities except cement are subject to export duties. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained by the authorized banks. Nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry less the equivalent of the expenses incurred during their stay in Zaire. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is guar- anteed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. With minor exceptions, other transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted. Gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by departmental ordinance. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks ZAIRE are not permitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Certain capital payments have been delayed. Arrears on principal due to official creditors and commercial banks are the subject of con- solidation agreements. Other arrears on capital pay- ments are being settled in accordance w i th priorities established by the Bank of Zaire. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire. Producers are required to sell their production to the Bank of Zaire at a price equiva- lent, at the official exchange rate, to 90 per cent of the first fixing in London on the day of sale. All newly produced gold is exported. Changes during 1979 January 2. The zaire was devalued by 34.3 per cent from Z 1 = SDR 0.7614 to Z 1 = SDR 0.5. January 6. C ircu lar No. 160 stipulated that tickets for in terna t ional travel commencing in Zaire could be purchased w i th domestic currency under the following conditions: (1) Residents of Za ir ian nationality had to establish proof of residence and citizenship at the t ime of purchase. In the case of purchase from a foreign airline company, they also had to present a permit issued by the Ministry of Transportation and Commun ica t ion authorizing the traveler to purchase a ticket from a non-Za'irian company. (2) The sale of tickets to Za ir ian residents of foreign na t iona l i ty against domestic currency was limited to salaried employees with a valid work contract, active partners in locally registered partnerships, self-employed persons (such as physicians, lawyers, architects, plantation owners, or cattle breeders), members of religious missions, and their dependents. Subject to proper documentation, such persons were entitled to one direct round-trip ticket a year to the ir country of citizenship. Except for self-employed persons, applications had to be lodged with an authorized bank in the final quarter of the year preceding the year of intended travel. Non- authorized travel by resident expatriates as well as excess baggage had to be paid for in foreign currency. February 8. The Bank of Zaire issued the regula- tions for 1979 governing the transfer by expatriate workers of part of their remuneration, pension scheme contributions, and insurance premiums (Circular No. 162 ). By March 31, 1979 each employer had to submit an application to an authorized bank on behalf of all expatriate employees. The amount of remuneration paid in local currency could not be lower than in 1978, but the transferable part of the remuneration might not be greater than in that year. When approved by the 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE Bank of Zaire, the banks could transfer the authorized amounts in monthly installments directly to the foreign accounts of the expatriate beneficiaries. February 19. The special exchange rate for the export of diamonds purchased from small-scale producers was depreciated from Z 3.60 = US$1 to Z 4.50 = US$1. March 16. The Bank of Zai're gave authorization for proceeds from invisibles to be applied to the importa- tion of priority goods. Certain banks were authorized to allocate proceeds from invisibles for such payments. May 3. Exporters of coffee were permitted a discount of Belgian francs 17 on the m in imum export price, if they shipped their coffee from North K ivu to Kinshasa by air. The discounts were to be credited to a foreign exchange account which could be debited for spare parts and other expenditures for the maintenance of airplanes (Letter D147Gouv. No. 10-365). July 3. New m in imum export prices for rauwolfia were announced (Letter D14/Gouv. No. 10-507). July 4. The Bank of Zaire instructed SOZACOM and SOZAREX to repatriate and to surrender to the Bank of Zaire two thirds of their foreign exchange proceeds immediately upon their realization. The Bank of Zaire was, however, prepared to respect any contractual obligations incurred by the marketing companies prior to July 1, 1979. July 5. The Bank of Zaire announced that t rans fer abroad of rental income earned by nonresidents was subject to its prior authorization. In the meantime, all such proceeds were to be accumulated in nonconvertible local currency accounts (Letter D14/Gouv. No. 10-546). July 5. Zairian banks were prohibited from assuming supplementary foreign exchange payments incurred in connection with income transfers on behalf of expa- triates. Such payments must be defrayed from the global exchange allocation for income transfers (Letter D14/Gouv.No. 10-547). July 6. The Bank of Zaire tightened the foreign exchange repatriation and surrender requirements for GECAMINES. In addition to transferring 10 per cent of its foreign exchange proceeds to the Bank of Zaire's account with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and to repatriating and surrendering to the Bank of Zaire another 45 per cent of its foreign exchange pro- ceeds, GECAMINES was henceforth required to sur- render to the Bank of Zaire at the end of each month any balances in excess of a security threshold, which was set initially at Belgian francs 800 million. July 10. The Zairian Coffee Office (OZACAF) pub- lished new regulations for the registration of buyers and exporters of coffee. Exporters must be either actual or prospective producers and must fu l f i ll certain mini- mum conditions as to current acreage and its planned extension or they must be owners of coffee treatment plants already registered with OZACAF. Other require- ments included an undertaking to export at least 500 450 tons of coffee each season, a written undertaking to respect the existing exchange regulations governing coffee exports, the submission of proof of fu ll repatria- tion of export proceeds, and the submission of tax payment certification at the time of submission of the application for registration. OZACAF also required the retreatment of coffee prior to export so as to meet certain standards with regard to quality. July 13. In application of the monetary arrangement of June 7, 1978 and the agreement on trade and customs cooperation of September 10, 1978 between the members of the Economic Community of the Great Lake Countries (Bu rund i, Rwanda, and Za ire), Circular No. 164 introduced a special exchange regime for trade and invisible transactions with Burundi and Rwanda. With effect from August 16, 1979 trade with the two countries in specified commodities would be exempt from the requirement of import or export declarations and licenses. Instead, the authorized banks were empowered to register and endorse special import or export notices (avis d'importation ou a"exportation CEPGL). The settlement of transactions was to be made through special accounts in convertible zaires opened in favor of the banks' correspondents in Burundi and Rwanda. The balances in those accounts were to be cleared with the Bank of Zaire at the end of each month. The Bank of Zaire would, in tu rn, settle any balances w i th the central banks of Bu rundi and Rwanda every three months. The validity of import and export notices issued under this special regime was six months and could be extended once by the endorsing bank for a maximum of three months. In addition to the current payment transactions per- mitted under the general exchange control provisions, with effect from August 16, 1979 the following pay- ments might be made to Burundi and Rwanda: insur- ance claim settlements in favor of residents of those countries; social security payments; travel and related expenses of tourists and households residing in the border area; and transfers to meet the personal require- ments of citizens of Burundi and Rwanda over and above l im i ts established on the transfer of remunera- tion. Upon proper documentation, each tourist or household was entitled to receive Bu rundi or Rwanda francs up to the equivalent of SDR 100 a mon th in the form of cash or nontransferable travelers checks. Un- spent balances could be exchanged again for zaires upon return. July 24. In order to facilitate the application of Cir- cular No. 164, Circular No. 165 amended Circular No. 86 of March 31, 1967 by adding the Burundi franc and the Rwanda franc to the list of 15 convertible cur- rencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zaire. August 24. The zaire was devalued by 25 per cent from Z 1 = SDR 0.5 to Z 1 = SDR 0.3750. August 30. The maximum permissible period of delay between the signing of export contracts for coffee and the submission of the corresponding export declara- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution don was reduced from 15 days to 7 days. At the same time, banks were authorized to register export declara- tions for coffee and all other exports that were subject to minimum export prices, without prior approval from the Bank of Zaire (Letter D14/Gouv. No. 10-722). August 30. The Bank of Zai're announced that it would henceforth validate exchange licenses for medical treatment incurred abroad by expatriates du r ing 1979 at any time in the year. Previously, such licenses could only be submitted in March and September. Banks were required to submit such licenses tak ing into account their foreign exchange availabilities and the chronologi- cal order of license applications (Letter D14/Gouv. No. 10-723). August 31. Zairian residents of foreign na t iona l i ty other than salaried employees with a valid work con- tract, active partners in locally registered partnerships, professionals, members of religious missions, and their dependents could henceforth purchase tickets for inter- national travel with domestic currency, provided such purchases were made from a local a i r l ine (Letter D14/Gouv. No. 10-721). September 3. The Bank of Zaire amended Circular No. 156, permitting commercial banks to use the exchange allocation of 2 per cent, initially reserved for petroleum imports, to augment any of the other exchange allocation coefficients. ZAIRE November 22. The Bank of Zaire prohibited any fu r- ther extension of the validity of import licenses issued before September 1, 1978. Banks were instructed to cancel all such licenses within 30 days after expiry of their validity except in cases where it could be proved that shipment occurred within the period of validity (Letter D15 /Gouv. No. 10-926). December 4. All imports of data processing equip- ment and accessories were subjected to the prior approval by the General Secretary of the Permanent Council for Data Processing (Letter D14/Gouv. No. 10-938). December 11. Representatives of 14 creditor coun- tries agreed to consolidate US$1.3 billion of Zaire's external public and publicly guaranteed debt to official creditors, including US$810 m i l l ion of debt service payments in arrears. December 22. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Angola. Transactions between Angola and Zaire were to be effected through nonconvertible U.S. dollar-denominated accounts with a swing limit of US$500,000. December 25. Zaire's borders were closed in order to carry out a currency conversion. Air traff ic was resumed on December 30, 1979, but the borders remained closed until January 24, 1980. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1979) Exchange Rale System The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Since March 17, 1978 the middle rate for the kwacha has been fixed at K 1 = SDR 0.976311. Zambia avails itself of margins of 2.5 per cent around that fixed relationship. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency, and the rates of the Bank of Zambia (the cen- tral bank) for the U.S. dollar are based on the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On De- cember 31, 1979 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 0.77502 and K 0.78084, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Govern- ment and with authorized banks in U.S. dollars and sterling. Authorized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia, or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 per cent for purchases of foreign exchange and 0.50 per cent for sales. Authorized banks are permitted to charge an additional 1 per cent on either side for sales and purchases of U.S. dollars, and 1.50 per cent for sales and purchases of other currencies, when quot- ing their rates to customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving nor- mal current payments is in tu rn delegated to com- mercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The control of trade is the responsibility of the M in is try of Commerce, which also issues import and export licenses. Overall import policy is determined by a committee on which the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank of Zambia are represented. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Pay- ments from residents of other countries may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any foreign currency freely exchange- able for U.S. dollars or sterling. Following the l if t ing of sanctions, special regulations applicable to settle- ments with Rhodesia have been withdrawn. All per- mitted commercial transactions with residents of Rho- desia are now subject to the same exchange control provisions as are applied to any External Account 452 country. Restrictions on the repatriation of blocked assets of residents of Rhodesia remain unchanged for the time being. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of other countries are designated External Accounts.1 These accounts may be credited w i th authorized payments from residents of Zambia, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for pur- chases of any foreign currency from authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emi- grants may be debited each year for the permitted anniversary allowance for a remittance to the country of residence of the account holder. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferab le to the account holder's country of resi- dence, except interest on existing blocked assets due to a resident of Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments The import from all countries of certain specified commodities is prohibited for reasons of health, safety, or public policy. Personal and household effects, sam- ples, diplomatic shipments, and means of transpor- tation entering Zambia temporarily do not require indi- vidual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consumption, provided that the per- son importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. The import of goods up to a value of K 500 that does not involve a remittance of foreign exchange is also exempt f rom a licensing requirement. The two major m in ing companies and the Ministry of Health are granted p r io r i ty for bona fide requirements. The Controller of Customs is authorized to admit emergency goods imported without prior reference to the Ministry of Commerce. All other imports require individual import licenses. 1 Au thor ized banks are required to obtain prior permission of the exchange control authorities before designating any new External Account except where the account is to be opened for a temporary visitor. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licensing aims at containing imports within a ha lf-year ly exchange allocation established by the Ministry of Commerce in consultation with the Min- istry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia. However, subject to approval, imports may be licensed without allocation of exchange. All imports under individual licensing are divided into three-digit groups following the Standard International Trade Classification system and into end-use groupings. Exchange allocations are specified for each of these categories. Norma l ly, raw materials, intermediate goods for fu r ther processing in Zambia, pharmaceuticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liberally; alcoholic beverages, tobacco, durable consumer goods, and other consumer goods are licensed restrictively. No licenses are being issued for specified luxury consumer goods or for items that are produced locally. In principle, foreign exchange for import pay- ments is automatically made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant documents to an authorized bank, including a clean report of findings issued by the General Super- intendence Company Limited of Geneva, which verifies the price, quality, and quantity in the country of o r ig in or shipment. Most imported goods are subject to a sales tax of 25 per cent, calculated at 120 per cent of the customs va lue plus the applicable import duty. Certain import payments are in arrears. The arrears have been cen- tralized and the Bank of Zambia is in the process of se t t l ing them in accordance with certain priorities. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are, in general, permitted to pro- v ide foreign exchange up to 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value of imports to cover freight and other charges. There is a tourist travel allowance of K 3 0 02 an adult for each calendar year, half of which may be approved by commercial banks for travel costs, other than by air, w i t h in A f r ica. The basic exchange allowance for busi- ness travel is K 75 a day for up to 15 days a person a calendar year; exchange for this purpose may also be provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education and medical treatment. Applications for amounts exceeding these limits may be granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that exceptional trea tment is justified. App l ica t ions for remittance abroad of part or all of paymen ts for advertising, management, accounting, adm in is t ra t ive, engineering, and consulting services ren- dered to residents by nonresidents are subject to indi- v idual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which generally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable, that they relate to existing con- 2 Raised to K 500 with effect from January 1980. ZAMBIA tracts, and that these services cannot be provided domestically.3 Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated outside Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 15 per cent of the nonresident share of the equity capital, or 50 per cent of net profits accruing to the non- resident owners of incorporated companies, whichever is smaller.4 Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 per cent of their after-tax profits including profits earned f rom a partnership or private limited company engaged in farming. A fu r ther 10 per cent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Such remittances are allowed once a year after the end of the accounting year. The remittance of depreciation allowances is not permitted. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract made after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit one third of their annual earnings to the country nom ina ted when the contract was registered with the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals recruited before December 4, 1971, and still employed on a contract entered into prior to that date, are allowed to remit to their country of domicile one half of the ir annual earnings. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, mainte- nance, etc.; their leave salary, gratuity, and other te rm inal benefits are transferable only on completion of the contract period and are subject to a ceiling of K 8,000 on departure and K 5,000 as a subsequent a n n u al allowance. Remittances of up to K 20 a year are no rma l ly approved by the exchange control authori- ties for fam i ly maintenance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Certain current payments are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license, except those covered by an open general license; m inera ls are exported under general agreements with the m i n i ng companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Marke t ing Corporation. Certain commodities are sub- ject to licensing ma in ly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date :{ Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. 4 An aud i tor's certificate must be submitted to the effect that the amount to be t rans fe r red represents bona fide realized profits derived f rom the year's operations after full provision has been made for local taxation. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which application is being made must also be submitted. 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA of shipment; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equiva- lent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted but, with the exception of overseas short-term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, all borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources out- side Zambia. The repatriation must be spread over a period longer than three years. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt-equity ratio of 1 to 3. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrow- ings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided that the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities and /or savings of foreign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales pro- ceeds will be repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 5,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 4,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emi- gration allowance, emigrants may remit gratuities, compensation payments, and terminal benefits up to a 454 maximum of K 8,000 on departure, and up to K 5,000 as annual transfers. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold- bearing sludge is exported by copper companies for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1979 January 2. It was announced that interest due on import bills would continue to be settled at prevailing exchange rates, including the interest due on arrears that had accrued before the March 1978 devaluation of the kwacha. May 2. The allowance for business travel was raised from K55 to K75 a person a day for a maximum period of 15 days in any calendar year and for not more than two trips a year. May 7. Authorized dealers were permitted to approve only K 150 out of the basic annual travel allowance of K 300 to cover basic travel costs within Africa by all means other than by air. The balance would henceforth require approval by the exchange control authorities. June 30. Authorized dealers were permitted to pro- vide foreign exchange up to 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value of imports to cover freight and other charges. The limit had formerly been set at 25 per cent. For imports of cork and timber it was fixed at 80 per cent. September 3. Expatriate farmers were permitted to submit applications for remittance of 12.5 per cent of their share of annual net (after-tax) profits earned from a partnership or a private limited company engaged in farming activities. Previously, remittances were re- stricted to profits derived only from private farming activity. October 16. Interest on overdue import bills, i.e., from the due date to the actual date of settlement, would be subject to a special exchange allocation for clearance of "interest for overdue period." December 27. Restrictions on transactions with Rho- desia were withdrawn. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Summary Features of Member (as at date of s I i 3 •J e 3 g « 11 § 11i111 j 11 {i § 1 11 n i, 11 § i .« » < < < < < O Q P Q p Q p Q f l C Q U U U U U U U U UO l p Q p Q P Q P Q f g .§ § «» f f j. -a 8 § § « 'C fc < -s t * g & 1. Article VIII status 2. Article X IV status 3. Exchange rate maintained within relatively narrow margins4 in terms of: ( a) U.S. dollar (b) sterling ( c) French franc (</) Australian dollar, Portuguese escudo, South African rand, or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mutual intervention arrange- ments) - - • • • • • - - • - • - - - - - • - - - • - - -• • • - - - - - • • - • - • • 0 0 0 - 0 0 0 - 0 0 0- - _ _ _ - 0 _ _ 0 _ _ _ 0 _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ - - - - _ - _ _ - 0 _ - _ _ _ 0 _ _ 0 0 _ _ 0 0_ - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ - - - - - - - - _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ • - • • - - • - - - - • _ - _ _ _ * _ _ _ _ _ _ __ D -• — - •- — • — — — _ — — ^ _ _ — 0 — _ _ _ _ __ — — - —_ — — __ — _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ __ ( /) a composite of currencies ( g) a s et of indicators 4. Exchange rate not maintained within relatively narrow margins as in (fl)-(g) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 6. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 7. More than o ne rate f or imports 8. More than o ne rate f or exports 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions6 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transactions6' • • • • • • - • • - •- 0 0 0 0 0 - 0 0 0 0 0 0 90 11. Prescription of currency • • • • - - - • • • • - • • • •• — • • • • • • •• 12. Bilateral payments arrangements with members - _ 0 _ - _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0_ __ - - 0 - 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ 0 _ __ - - _ _ 0 _ _ - 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0_ __ • • - - - - - • • - - - - • • • - - • • • - • • •- - 0 - _ _ _ _ 0 _ 0 _ _ 0 _ _ _ 0 _ __ — • — — — • — • — • — — — 0 — — — — — — — — 0 — — — — 0 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - • •- - — - - 0- — 0 — -0 — -- — 0- — -0 — 00 __ 0 — _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 0 _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ 0 0 _ _0 • — — - — _ __ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ __ • • •• — • - • 0 6 0 0 O 0 0 00 - 0 0 0 0 00 + 0 13. Bilateral payments arrangements with nonmembers 1 4. Import surcharges 1 5. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required For key and footnotes, see page 460. 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix Countries' Restrictive Systems1 country survey)2 .a i s* <4-io d « t 1 I 2! 11111! i! 11J11!! 1 1 1 11 i i 1111 i1 i * 11J1 U Q Q Q Q w w S w w E f c i O H O O O O O O O o a C f i ^ ^ ^ A A A ^ S ^^ f i f f 1 » | - • - • • • - • - - • • • - - • - - - • - - • • • • - - - - - • - • -• ~i~ T - _ - ~ ^ _ ^ ^~T~~ r~~ r~ i~V - • • "•" - "•"j>_~ - - ~"•""•" • V • _ -_V - • - - - ^ • • • ^ • - • - - - - - - - - • • - - • • • - - - - - • - - - j -0 _ — — _ __ — _ _ _ _ _ _ _0 — _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ A £ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - • — - - - - - - - -- + - - • - - . - - - - - - - - - - . - -- + - + . - -. D D - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- ^ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- " ———— ~ —— - - - - _l_Ji_l_Jl_?__^ ~ ^_ ~ ~_ ~ _l__^. • _ • _ • •• _2_ j_ • - - - - - - - • • • - • - - - - - - - • - • - - - - - - - • - - • - - - • -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - ~ - ~- ^^^j-j-^^j-^!Z!Z^^^j-^A^^^Z]^^^ • - - - • - _ • _ • • • - - - - - - • • • - • • • - - - • • - • • - - • -• • - ^"•"ji • A • "•""•" - • • • • ^ • • • ^* _^_'"*" - - -"•"•"•"•"• •"•"• "•"" - - - - - • • - • - - • - - - - • • - - • • - - - - - • - • - - - - -- • _ _ _ _ ^ +^^ • - - • - - - - • • - - • - - - - - - • - • - - - - -- "•""""•""•""•" • • ~~~~~~V - ~ • "•" • V - ~T" • ""•""•""•""•" • - """"•" _L^.-L "~ JL^.-lJL_L_L-L^-Jl^.^.J1^.JLJL^.JLJUL_1J__1^_ ~ — 0 -L-L • - - - For key and footnotes, see page 460. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution & 1 Q .§ I I Analytical Summary Features of Member (as at date of i I -" -° u M i n! h | ih f 11 i l l] h! 0 _ _ _ * - _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ 0 0 _ 0_ « "° - • • • - • • • • • • • - • • • • • - • • - - • -• _ - _ 0 _ 0 _ _ 0 0 _ _ - - _ _ - - _ _ _ 0 _ 0 _ 0_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 1. Article VIII status 2. Article X IV status 3. Exchange rate maintained within relatively narrow margins4 in terms of: ( a) U.S. dollar ( 6) sterling ( c) French franc _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ 0 _ __ __ _ _ _ _ _ ^ (</) Australian dollar, Portuguese escudo, South African rand, or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mutua: intervention arrange- ments) ( /) a composite of currencies (g) a s et of indicators 4. Exchange rate not maintained within relatively narrow margins as in (a)-(g) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital transactions and/or some or a ll invisibles 6. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) _ _ _ __ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _, ^ _ _ _ _ D D D D - • • -• — - - - - - • • - - • • • - • - - - - -- __ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 0 _ _ __ — ^ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ 0 _ __ _ 0 __ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ ^ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ 0 _ _ _ _ 0_ _ _ 0 _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ $ _ _ _ _ - - _ 0 _ _ _ __ 7. More than o ne rate f or imports — _0 — _ — _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ 0_ 8. More than o ne rate f or exports _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ __ _ 0 _ _ _ 0_ 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions6 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transactions6-6 - • • • - • - • - • • •- — • • • • - •• — • • •• 1 1. Prescription of currency -• — • - • - •- -• — - — • - • • - • •• — - -• 12. Bilateral payments arrangements with members - _ 0 _ _ _ 0 0_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ 0 _ _ __ — - • - - - - •• — — — • •• — •• — — — — _- - -• •• _ _ _ _ _ 0 0 _ _ _ _ __ _ ^ _ _ _ _ 0 0_ _ _ __ - • - • - - • • - • - • • - - - - • • - • - • - •- _ _ 0 0 _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ __ $_ - • • • - • - • - • • • • • • • • • - • • - • • •• 13. Bilateral payments arrangements with nonmembers 1 4. Import surcharges 1 5. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required For key and footnotes, see page 460. 458 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix (Continued) Countries' Restrictive Systems1 country survey)2 .2 1 >> CO o C I 1 CO I Io I ia £ > CQ § S £ 3 1a I 12a- .9- 1 o ON 3 § 2'2 (5 <a•§oj 0< n .2*o 3 c/^ I > c« 1*<3 c £ •o C cd 1 .2 .2 I 1 £ "J3 bOs^ 00^>1>>& <uI«J g c/5 2aI w V] TJ C JS Co 3 eg "5i .2 .§ £ I I (d 'Sv | £ I 3 O C/5 c1C/3 ed ^!H C «J •§ CO <U £ <S ^C "£ 3 C/3 •gctf! C 0) "8 CO da> (^ X) 2 < c .2I .s 12 I I c« i o CO2 (2 T3 C <a •3."2'2 £ 2 !2c 3 | For key and footnotes, see page 460. 459 - • • - • • - • - - • - - - - - • - • - • • - • - - - - • - • - - - - - -- • - - • - - • - • • - • • - - • - • • - • - - • • • • - • • • • • •• - - • • • - • - - - - • • • • - - - - - - - • - - - - • • _ _ 0 _ _ _ 0 _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- _ _ _ _ _ _ - _. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ^ 0 _ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _ _ _ __ a an - • - - - • - - - - - - - - - • - - • • • • - - - - - - - - • - • • - - •- ^ • - - - - - - • • - • - - - - - • - - - - - - • - • •- - - - - - - - - -- _ _ _ _ _ _ * * _ _ _ * _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _0_ _ _0_0_0_ _ _ _ _0 - - - • - - • • - - - • - - - - - - - - - - • - - - - • - - - • - - - - -• - - - • - - • • - - - • - - - - - - - - - - • - - - - • - - - • - - - - -• _ _ ^ _ _ _ 0 _ _ _ _0_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ^ _ _ _ _0_ _ _0_ _ _ _ _0 • - - • - - - - • • - • • • • • - - - • - - • • • - - • - - - • • - • - •• - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - • - - - • - - - • - - - • - - - • - - • - - - • - - - - • - - - - -• - - - • • - • • - • - - - - - - - - - • - - • • - - - • • • - • • • - - •• • - ^ • - - • - • _ _ _ - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ^ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -« ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix (Concluded) Summary Features of Member Countries9 Restrictive Systems1 (as at date of country survey)2 | 1 | 57 * g I ° « 1 1 S I 1 8 . . , * 2 S £ > . - 8 1 S * *I • S - o - a - a I § 3 Z f ece -S -3 c 2 l s « S 8 5aS c ° S 'e S 'I 'I c & 2 § .S | ! I S1 * | D D D D D D > > ? > « > - > . r 3N Key and Footnotes • indicates that practice exists. - indicates that practice does not exist 0 indicates that position is undetermined. D indicates that the composite is the SDR. 1 Practices indicated as existing do not neces- sarily apply to all transactions. 2 At December 31, 1979. 3 Country had not yet opted for Article VIII or Article XIV by December 31, 1979. 4 Margins of approximately 2.25 per cent either side of parity. 6 Restrictions on payments to member countries in the form of quantitative limits or undue delay, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted August 14, 1952. 6 Resident-owned funds. 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate maintained within relatively narrow margins4 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (6) sterling (c) French franc (d) Australian dollar, Portuguese escudo, South African rand, or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mutual intervention arrange- ments) (/) a composite of currencies (g) a set of indicators 4. Exchange rate not maintained within relatively narrow margins as in (fl)-(g) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 6. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 7. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for exports 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions5 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transactions6-6 11. Prescription of currency 12. Bilateral payments arrangements with members 13. Bilateral payments arrangements with nonmembers 14. Import surcharges 15. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 